 Mr. Parker : I rise to second the Address in answer to his Majesty's most gracious Speech. In doing so, if the hon. Baronet, who has attained so considerable a station in this House, had to ask the House for as large a portion of their indulgence as was compatible with its dignity to grant, how much more reason have I to throw myself upon the
 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 adscripli glebœ seriatim Poor—Pauperised parishes—Battle parish—Average annual expenditure for the three last-years, 13,000 l l l l Uckfield Union.—(From Mr. Hawley's Report.)—Old average expenditure of all the parishes united 16,600 l l l l Midhurst Union, in Sussex.—Reduction from 17,500 l l l 37 West Hampnall Union, Sussex.—From 16,437 l l "In short, there is reason to anticipate that the saving, in Suffolk alone, from one clear year's full operation of the new system, will repay  threefold Migration.—From 1,000 to 2,000 persons have already migrated from the southern counties to the north, where they have been sup-plied with places at double the rate of wages they had obtained in their own counties. The control of the Commissioners now extends over near 5,000 parishes, and the barriers to the free circulation of labour have in them been broken down—neither do people go to workhouses. From the 23d of September last, there was in the 335 poorhouses, workhouses, and tenements, belonging to the 204 unions already formed, accommodation for 26,443; whereas the actual number of inmates in them at that time, was only 11,137. In the parishes comprised in the Bishop's Stortford, the Dun-mow, Saffron Walden, and Ware Unions, there were, during last year, not less than one thousand able-bodied labourers on the rates. A few- weeks ago, there were only fifty. At Buntingford, not a single able-bodied man on the rates for the last seven weeks. Whigs and Tories have acted in perfect harmony. The clergy have everywhere lent a most valuable assistance in dissipating prejudices. Clergymen, farmers, and every person give testimonals of beneficial operation on morals. Little resistance, except from petty interested shopkeepers. Contentment succeeds disorder. 38 Excess of deposits in Savings' Banks on 20th November, 1835, as compared wish 20th November, 1834, 1,150,000 l 
 
 Total deposits, 1830 £13,507,565 including Ireland. 
 1831 13,719,495 including Ireland. 
 1832 13,597,884 including Ireland. 
 1833 14,337,521 including Ireland. 
 1834 15,369,844 including Ireland. 
 1835 16,500,000 including Ireland. Cotton.—Consumption of Cotton Wool, In 1833, 293,682,976lbs.; 1834, 302,935,657lbs.; 1835, 330,000,000lbs.; being an increased consumption of more than 36,000,000lbs. within the last two years, or 13½ per cent, on the whole quantity. To show the vast increase of the cotton manufacture, within the last ten years, I have obtained from returns to this House the following averages of the exports taken for periods of five years each. Annual average exportation of Cotton Manufactured Goods (exclusive of Hosiery and small wares.) 
 
 Yards. Yarn. 
 5 years from 1821 to 1835 310,885,781 28,349,587lbs. 
 5 1826 to 1830 568,597,024 52,732,156 
 4 1831 to 1834 483,622,178 71,648,305 39 The Returns for 1835 are not yet made out, but the House will see little reason to doubt, from the statement I have before made of the increased consumption of cotton wool during that year, that the increased exports have been in a similar proportion. Woollen Manufactures,—Declared value of Exports in 1834, 5,975,415 l l Silk.—Quantity of silk consumed: In 1833, 3,663,679lbs.; 1834, 4,522,352lbs.; 1835, 5,500,000lbs., being an increase of near two million pounds within the two last years. Linen.—Of linen I have been unable to procure a return for the year 1835; but I have averages (as in the case of the cotton trade) of the quantity of linen manufactured goods exported during periods of five years each. Annual average from 1820 to 1824, 50,298,210 yards; from 1825 to 1829, 53,037,255 yards; from 1830 to 1034, 62,350,345 yards. Iron.—Cost and wrought iron and steel exported—Declared value in 1834, 1,406,872 l. l Annual average—(Five years) l820 to 1824 90,283 tons; 1825 to 1829, 87,237 tons; 1830 to 1834, 142,071 tons;—increase 62¾ per cent. Prices of bar iron at the works in Wales—1835, April 1, 7 l l l l l. l 
 
 Hardwares exported. Annual average—5 years. 
 1820 1824 9,772 tons £1,248,082 
 1825 1829 11,635 — 1,345,645 
 1830 1836 15,649 — 1,483,518 Being an increase in the last ten years of 60 per cent. on quantity—19 per cent. on value. Principal articles of British manufacture exported, not including some minor articles, on which the returns have not yet been received:— 
 
 1833 Declared value £34,489,385 
 1834 36.541,926 
 1835 41,000,000 & upwards. 
 
 Per centage increase in 1834, 6 percent. 
 Ditto ditto 1835, 13 per cent. 40
 Lord Stanley  felt unwilling to allow this question to go to a division, without saying a few words explanatory of a vote which, if he were compelled to it, he should feel himself obliged to give. He came to that House with the strongest anxiety, which had not yet forsaken him, and a hope even, which had not forsaken him up to that moment—that, by a mutual agreement of both parties, by a cautious avoidance on either side of words and expressions which would lead to a premature discussion of important questions, the Address of that House would go up to his Majesty without an Amendment, and almost without discussion; because he could hardly believe that his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) opposite should not, after the speech which he had now uttered, be induced to follow that example which, if he did not much mistake, had been set him by his colleagues in another House, of cheerfully, willingly, and anxiously adopting an Amendment couched in the precise terms in which the Amendment now submitted was drawn up. He could truly say, that he came down to that House, not only with an anxiety to assist his Majesty's Ministers in carrying the Address, if it appeared to him unobjectionable, but also in the entire ignorance of any determination on the part of any person or party to propose an Amendment; but he came down also with a feeling which he never lost sight of on any occasion, that the more important and the more material, were the questions to be discussed which were alluded to in the Speech from the Throne, the more imperious was the necessity of avoiding a partial and premature decision on them. Why, if this Amendment were material to pledging the determination of Government to the adoption of a course of conduct which they did not consider desirable—if it were material in weakening that strong determination and strong expression of opinion to which they conceived they were bound to adhere, he asked why in any place, or on any consideration, they yielded to its adoption; but if the Amendment were
 64 65 66 John Russell 67 68
 Mr. O'Connell  did not want any excuse for protracting the discussion, because the question before them was one interesting in the highest degree to the people of Ireland. It was a question whether the House of Commons was really doing injustice to that country—whether it was disposed to continue injustice, or whether it would express a hope of treating Ireland as England and Scotland had been treated. That was the question. He knew right well that there were many in, and many out of Ireland, who, though they would not dare to declare that they would refuse to do her justice, though they were ashamed to say they would perpetuate the injustice now done to her, were yet ready enough to consummate the effect. England had never done justice to Ireland. Never, Ireland had obtained concessions from England—nay, she had extorted some recent measures of justice from her, measures which had been refused by men upon principle, and afterwards conceded by them against their own avowed principles. The right hon. Baronet had talked to night about not exactly understanding what was meant by principle. He believed the right hon. Baronet. That right hon. Gentleman had for years been the advocate
 92 impromptu Lord Stanley was sitting next to Sir Robert Peel on the front seat of the Opposition benches Oh, oh, from the Opposition benches 93 94 "Ipsis Hibernis Hiberniores" Shibboleth 95 Immense cheer- 96 ing l. l. * 97 98 99 Oh, oh 100 Oh, oh 101 102
 Lord Dudley Stuart : Sir I am not going to discuss the Amendment proposed by the right hop. Baronet the Member for Tarn worth. I think his arguments have been triumphantly refuted by those who have spoken on this side of the House. But while I do not feel the objections which he entertains to the Address, my duty does not permit me to express unqualified satisfaction with the Speech from the Throne. This Speech has been looked for with anxious expectation by the people, not only of this country, but of (he whole civilized would, eager to see what direction our foreign policy is to take. I wish I could discover in it anything calculated to satisfy those who are anxious for the preservation of the balance of power in Europe, who are desirous to see the dignity of England maintained by the enforcement of treaties to which she is a party, and her interests secured by the repression of the designs of the Leviathan of the North and of the East, by which her security is threatened and the liberties of Europe endangered. For a long time there has been a growing apprehension of the increasing power of Russia; great. alarm is felt that the independence of Turkey is more than threatened; that the strongest and most important political and military position in the world is in danger of passing from hands friendly to us into those of a power which we cannot but regard with the utmost jealousy. People know that if these alarms are not without foundation, then that there is danger to our commerce, danger to our political station in Europe, danger to our Indian possessions, danger to all our best and most essential interests. This uneasiness is not confined to one party or to one class, but pervades men of all opinions, and extends to all parts of the country. This feeling, augmented lately by the reviews at Kalisch and the conferences at Tæplitz, has been made more intense,
 75 76 77
 Lord John Russell  rose and said, he thought he should best consult the convenience of the House, and certainly his own, in rising immediately after the right hon. Baronet, to offer some remarks upon the observations which had just fallen from him, and upon the Address which had just been proposed by his hon. Friend near him. He should take the various topics in the order they had been touched upon by the right hon. Baronet; and first to those respecting our Foreign Affairs. The right hon. Baronet's first criticism had been directed against that passage in the Address, or rather in his Majesty's Speech, which referred to the part taken by this country in respect to Spain, which the right hon. Baronet declared to be a breach of that principle of non-intervention upon which this Government had hitherto boasted to have acted. Surely the right hon. Baronet must recollect that, opposed as his Majesty's Ministers were to the principle of intervention in the affairs of other nations in general; yet, that as regarded Spain, this country was a party—a treaty, which, of course, the Government was bound to carry into execution. Whether intervention or non-intervention were the best principle, was not for him now to discuss in respect to our relations with Spain; for here his Majesty was already bound by a treaty with other foreign powers, which he could not possibly depart from. With respect, therefore, to our interference, that was regulated by a treaty which he believed it was a matter of boast on the part of the Government of which the right hon. Baronet was at the head—it was certainly a subject for just commendation of the conduct of the Duke of Wellington—that whilst that noble Duke held the Seals of Office as Secretary for Foreign Affairs, he carried into effect the stipulation of the treaty to which he had alluded, and studiously pre-
 57 58 59 60 l. 61 62 63
 Colonel Sibthorp  was no party man—and that he was as independent as the hon. Member for St. Alban's, or any hon. Member in the House. He had the highest respect for his Majesty, but he could not support the Address. He should vote for the Amendment, because a more moderate one could not be introduced—and because he had the greatest confidence in the right hon. Baronet who proposed it. The noble Lord opposite and his colleagues knew that they were now paying the most abject submission to the hon. and teamed Member for Dublin, without whose powerful support and alliance they would be very quickly ejected from their places. This they knew well; for there was not half so much talent among the whole Administration as there was in that hon. and learned Member.
 Mr. Shaw  would, at that late hour, and when the House was impatient for a division, detain them with very few observations in answer to those of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He would not stop to consider the qualifications of that hon. and learned Gentleman to read a lecture on principle and consistency to his right hon. and distinguished Friend (Sir Robert Peel)—but proceed at once to offer a few words on the immediate question before them—that part of the Address which had reference to the subject of Municipal Corporations in Ireland; he conceived that the great objection to the expression sought to be amended was, that it pledged the House to the application of a general principle without consideration of the peculiar circumstances of the country to which it was to be applied, as the leading error in the debate had been the use of general terms, and high sounding expressions without regard to their practical and real signification. He entirely concurred with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) that too often the sounds of liberty and religion were on the lips when there was none of the spirit of either in the heart. The noble Lord (Lord Howick) accused his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Pee!) and those with whom he acted, of refusing the luxury of liberty to Ireland; but the noble Lord seemed to forget that liberty, which had reason, and virtue, and happiness for its companions was one thing—and another, that which some called liberty, while they meant a license to revel in riot and destruction. The noble Lord, too, had overlooked the difference between vigilant popular control, and reckless popular violence. The noble Lord himself admitted that the undue influence possessed by the hon. and
 103 104
 Mr. Hardy  would not detain the House for more than a very few moments. The noble Lord who had just sat down had stated that the question on which the House was about to divide was, whether Ireland should be governed on free principles or not. He denied however that that was the question under debate; because the noble Lord would not pretend to say that the people of Ireland were not at this moment free. Let them have no talk of tyranny in Ireland when every man's life and property in that country was safe, except against the pestilence that walketh in. darkness. The Amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet would not prevent Ministers from adopting any principle they might think fit when they proposed their measure of Municipal Reform for Ireland; whilst on the other hand the Address as it then stood would pledge the House to the adoption of exactly the same principal of Municipal Reform to be applied to Ireland as that which had already been applied to England and Scotland, whilst it was possible that the widely different state of Ireland might render a Bill proceeding upon a somewhat different principle necessary. He agreed with the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) that perhaps the most effectual mode of Reform would be to sweep the Corporations of Ireland away altogether. The noble Lord opposite had taken great credit to himself for the measure of Municipal Corporation Reform which he had carried; but before the noble Lord began to chuckle over his offspring he should see how it worked. He should ascertain how far it was an im-
 88 89
 Mr. Ward  could honestly assure the House that he had not the slightest intention at the commencement of the debate to obtrude himself upon them. The tone of moderation adopted by the right hon. Baronet led him to hope that this discussion might terminate in an amicable manner. He was, however, delighted to see that it had at last assumed its proper character. He was delighted to hear the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Hardy) put the question upon a more real and honest footing. The hon. Member disclaiming all those professions of moderation of which the speech of the right hon. Baronet was composed, declared distinctly that to his unreasonable apprehensions of the power of one individual in Ireland he would sacrifice every thing like that justice which was due to the Irish people. This was the question. He would not have hon. Gentlemen who had been taunting—out of the House, where they knew they could not be met by contradiction or exposure—those independent Members who supported the present Government with having formed an unprincipled coalition and conspiracy, and of truckling to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, think that they were to avail themselves of this discussion to persuade the country that the principles which they professed here were really the principles which were the rule of their conduct. The hon. Member for Bradford had put the question upon a proper footing. He denied justice to Ireland—because he would not establish a tyranny in the person of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. [Mr. Hardy; I did not say any such thing.] This was of a piece with the language which had been held by the party press, and by the party themselves wherever they had had an opportunity to express their opinions during the last six months. Never had there been an attempt by any political party or by any party press to run down an individual made to such an extent as had been made by the Tories
 90 91
 Sir John Wrottesley  rose for the purpose of moving the Address, and in doing so, said, in performing the duty I have undertaken on the present occasion, I cannot plead that inexperience usually urged as a claim on the indulgence of the House.
 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
 Sir Robert Peel : —The Speech which has been delivered from the Throne this day naturally suggests, as preceding speeches have done, many considerations, which press for the decision or upon the attention of Parliament, connected with the foreign and domestic policy of this country. I will reverse the order in which those great topics for our consideration were referred to in the speech of my hon. Friend, the Member for Staffordshire, who moved the Address, and will briefly direct attention, in the first instance, to those parts of the Royal Speech which refer more immediately to the foreign policy of this country. I rejoice to hear that his Majesty entertains a confident hope of a continued maintenance of peace. I rejoice, also, to hear that his Majesty is enabled to congratulate himself on the continued maintenance of a good understanding with his powerful neighbour the king of the French. I consider the maintenance of that good understanding to be essential to the best interests of both countries, and certainly a great security for the continued tranquillity of Europe. I hope, indeed, that ail the countries of Europe are so deeply impressed with the importance, nay, the moral obligation of maintaining peace, unless war be necessary for the vindication of national honour, or the protection of some essential interest, that, even if the continued good understanding between England and France did not afford a strong guarantee for the continuance of peace, the breaking out of hostilities in Europe would be an event not likely soon to occur. I trust also that the increased commercial intercourse between this country and France will still confirm their common interest in maintaining the relations of peace and amity with each other. Another source of satisfaction to me—which, however, I derive not from the Speech from the Throne, but from intelligence I have lately received in common with the public—in the prospect of an amicable termination of the differences which have for some time existed between France and America. Both those countries ought to understand that the great parties, and indeed all intelligent persons in this country, who take a more enlightened view of what is really for the interest of the country, than superficial observers gave them credit for, are unanimous in wishing that the differences between them may be speedily and amicably terminated, I be-
 42 43 44 45 l. 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 l. l. 55 56
 Viscount Howick  observed that the noble Lord rather inconsistently expressed the reluctance which he felt to the introduction into the Address of any amendment, and his wish that the Address itself should be agreed to unanimously; and yet, at the same moment, called upon his noble Friend, notwithstanding the reasons which had been so forcibly stated by his noble Friend for not agreeing to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, to reconsider his determination with a view to the abandonment of the original words in the Address, and the substitution of those which had been recommended by the right hon. Baronet. He must say, that the advice thus given to his noble Friend by the noble Lord filled him with considerable surprise. He was quite at a loss to understand how the noble Lord could declare, that it was desirable to postpone any di-
 69 70 71 72 73 74
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that if his noble Friend, when he made up his mind to abstain from pressing the Amendment which he had originally intended to offer to the consideration of the House, thought the grounds upon which he did so were such as ought to influence the conduct of those who were favourable to the Government—if his noble Friend felt that it was proper for any person who, generally speaking, approved the policy of the present Ministry to take a step calculated to produce anything like a division in the ranks of the Liberal party in the House on the first night of the Session—if that, as his noble Friend had stated, was the ground upon which he abstained from pressing his Amendment, he (Lord Palmerston) did not think that that which had passed since the House had assembled—he did not think that the grounds upon which the other Amendment had been proposed, or the bearing which that Amendment had—would tend in the slightest degree to alter the confidence of his noble Friend in the propriety of the decision he had come to. For when his noble Friend saw that the House was going to divide upon a question involving a matter of no less importance than, whether Ireland should continue to be governed upon the same principles as hitherto—whether those principles of constitutional freedom and of public responsibility which had been so beneficially carried into effect in this country, and so much to the satisfaction of the people, were to be extended to Ireland, or to be refused to the Irish nation—when his noble Friend found that the House was about to divide on a Question upon which the Liberal party would vote on one side, and those who were opposed to Liberal measures would vote on the other—he thought his noble Friend would congratulate himself that he had not taken any step calculated to occasion a difference of opinion amongst those who, on that occasion, ought to stand firm and fast by each other. His noble Friend found fault with "his Majesty's Speech, so far as it related
 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87
 Mr. O'Connell  thought no business of any kind ought to be begun after eleven o'clock at night. The only assemblies in the world which sat by night to transact their business instead of sitting by day, were the House of Commons and the House of Lords: that was, they were the only legal assemblies. It really was high time, that they ceased to do their business with the owls. They had lately been accustomed to hear a great deal about the wisdom of their ancestors. Now, their ancestors were wise enough to begin their business at eight o'clock in the morning-, and so lately as 1792, it was one of their standing regulations, that the Orders of the Day should be gone into at one o'clock in the afternoon, and not later. He submitted, therefore, to hon. Gentlemen opposite, that we should go back to the hours which the wisdom of our ancestors had considered the best. A great increase of the business of the House had taken place even within his own time. When he first became a Member of Parliament, they sat for four days in the week only. Now, if at the beginning of a Session, they were to sit three days a week, and commence at ten o'clock in the morning, he was convinced that it would enable them to transact the public business much more satisfactorily than according to the present arrangement. What was the fact at present? From half-past six to half-past nine were generally considered as dinner hours, and during that period nothing was done, or, which was equivalent to nothing, the time was spent in listening to those who would not be listened to at any other time, A more
 110
 Mr. Grove Price  rose amidst considerable confusion, and interruption. The hon. Member said, if the feeling of the House were expressed against his addressing it on the subject to which his hon. Friend had made such just and pointed reference he should bow to its decision and be silent; but if it were meant to resist him by unseemly clamour and offensive interruptions, then he should persevere in vindicating his privilege as a Member of Parliament, and deliver his opinions. He would ask was it decorous and fair for any hon. Member, or party of Members, to insult and thwart another Member, when he stood forward to deliver his free and conscientious opinions? Was this the usage of Parliament? Was this "fair play," in which Englishmen so much excelled? He would appeal to the honour of the House. He would, in despite of any factious clamour, maintain his own principles, which were the principles of the British nation—the principles of liberality, impartiality, and humanity—principles that were as much opposed to dishonourable dealing; as they were to reckless and unprovoked cruelty. He would, therefore, not allow himself to be beaten down by factious ejaculations, which reflected disgrace on the parties, in delivering his opinions on the present uncalled-for and unprincipled interference by our Government in the civil commotions of Spain, He did not regret his having abstained from entering into the discussion on this point last night, because he did not wish to encumber the general question of the debate on the Address with any irrelevant and desultory dissertations on an isolated subject. He thought it better to hear the arguments of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), on the whole subject of the Speech, than create interruption by the expression of his own views on an isolated point—a dissertation on our foreign policy as affecting Spain. He did not appear before the House as the propounder of abstract opinions, or as a mere political or moral theorist; on the contrary, he had deep experience of the actual condition of Spain for the last two years. That country which was the theatre of British
 119 120 121 122 Laughter. 123 Laughter. 124 125 Hear, hear. Movement 126
 Mr. Grove Price : I beg the noble Lord's pardon, I merely said that I had read the letter in the newspaper. I did not say that the noble Lord addressed it to the newspaper.
 Viscount Palmer start : The noble Lord will well remember that the lives of those prisoners never were in danger. They were taken when the noble Lord himself was in office, on board of an English sloop, which was captured on the coast of Spain; and by the interposition of the then Government of this country, the lives of those persons were saved; but they were kept prisoners. It was in consequence of the convention negotiated by Lord Eliot that a question was raised respecting their detention. Being taken before the convention was entered into, they were not strictly entitled to the benefit of the exchange of prisoners under it. The only question on which any discussion had been raised by the present Government was, not whether the lives of those prisoners should be saved, because their lives had already been guaranteed to the preceding Government; but whether they should be set at liberty by an exchange of an equal number of Christine officers who had been taken prisoners by the troops of Don Carlos. It was to that point alone that the application of the 1st of September was directed. That application was not successful. It was stated in reply that these prisoners were not strictly entitled to the benefit of the convention, and that from peculiar circumstances it was not considered for the interests of the Queen of Spain to send them back to the army of Don Carlos. But I believe that every measure has been taken, not only on the one hand for the security of those officers from escape, but on the other for the prevention of any outrage towards them on the part of the Queen of Spain.
 Lord Francis Egerton  had not intended to are taken any part in the discussion of the evening, nor should he have done so but for the notice which the hon. Member for Middlesex, (Mr. Hume) had taken of a cheer which came from him whilst the hon. Member was speaking. It certainly did appear to him (Lord F. Egerton) that the line of argument pursued by the hon. Member for Middlesex laid down the position that this country through all ranks and classes, held something like an unqualified concurrence in the opinions which the hon. Member himself entertained. Fancying that to be the position intended to be laid down, he in his situation in that House, did take the liberty of expressing his dissent from it; for he could not but feel that, however easy it might be to raise a clamour, and to beat down argument, amidst that portion of the community which was not prone to express its sentiments in the noise of public meetings, he had at least a right, representing as he did some thousands of constituents in that House, to state that those sentiments were not entertained by a portion, and not the least respectable portion, of the community. That was the meaning of the cheer to which the hon. Member referred. Being then before the House, he might, perhaps, be allowed to make one or two observations on certain passages contained in the King's Speech. He was bound to say that he felt anxious to express, with more energy than he could convey by a silent vote, his own individual concurrence in the sentiments expressed
 135 136 137
 Lord John Russell  dissented from the Resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Liverpool, for which no case of necessity appeared to exist. He thought it much better that hon. Members should be left to exercise their discretion as to the propriety of adjournment upon each particular occasion—a discretion which had so often during the last Session been exercised by the hon. Member for Salford, in a manner at once so agreeable and satisfactory.
 Mr. Robinson  complained, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had diverged from the original question, which only related to the curtailment of the hours at present devoted to business, and had wandered into the consideration of another question,—namely, to the propriety of sitting by day. This last change was so serious a one, that it could not properly be adopted without much previous notice and consideration. Plausible as it might at first sight appear, there were many objections to it which were of considerable force, and which ought to be most: maturely weighed. There were a
 111
 Dr. Bowring  said, the attention of the House was distracted from the consideration of its more urgent business by the vast variety of claims upon it. He had witnessed the proceedings of more representative bodies than most individuals of that House, and he could say that that was the only representative body that did not make all other concerns subordinate to the great public interests intrusted to their care. The public service would gain very much if they gave to the public interests the hours of the day instead of the weary and exhausting hours of the night. It became them to take some measures for the furtherance of the public business; and he trusted that the House would give attention to the proposal of his hon. Friend; and sure he was, that unless the period arrived in which the day should be given to the great concerns of the nation, those concerns could not be properly attended to.
 Dr. Bowring  had heard, with great pain and regret, the speech of the hon. Member for Sandwich. Last night he had hailed it as a triumph for the cause of humanity, liberty, and civilization, when the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, sitting in the same place as that at present occupied by the hon. Member, stated that he at least saw with delight the arrival of an epoch at which the intimate union which existed between France and England might be referred to as one of the boasts and triumphs of the present times. On the other hand, it was most painful to hear language Falling from the lips of a British senator, which was nothing less than calumnious towards two great nations. The hon. Member for Sandwich represented the Spanish nation as unworthy of freedom, and he spoke with something like an intimation that he was intimately and peculiarly acquainted with the circumstances of Spain, and the nature and character of the troubles by which she was at present distracted. Emboldened by that knowledge, the hon. Member broadly declared that the popular feeling of Spain was ranged on the side of Don Carlos. The hon. Member must allow him to say that that was not the fact. He was not without some personal knowledge of Spain, and he would venture to assert that for the last thirty years the people of the Spanish nation had every day been rising in intelligence, and every day feeling more and more the desire to obtain constitutional guarantees for freedom. And he would venture further to assert, that the Spanish people had entered upon a career in which they would ultimately succeed—a career which would infallibly lead to the overthrow of misrule, and to the establishment of good government with all its happy consequences. There existed in Spain a desire and determination to obtain popular institutions, and, in spite of Don Carlos, and in spite of the advocates and admirers of Don Carlos, the people of Spain would obtain the object of their long enduring struggles, and a constitutional Government would be firmly established in that country. The friends of liberty looked brightly to the future—the friends of despotism could look only darkly to the past. Neither was the hon. Member warranted in what he asserted of France. The days of enmity towards England bad passed away, and had been
 134
 Mr. Fector  said, that under the peculiar circumstances in which he felt himself placed, and the vote of the previous night, which sanctioned the terms and the principles of the Address from the Throne, he should appeal to the indulgence of the House for making some remarks on a subject of great importance to the interest and honour of this country, as they affected our foreign relations and our internal interests. The subject was the passage in the Royal Speech which was echoed by the Address relative to the affairs of Spain. He felt himself called on in justice and duty to protest against this portion of the Speech and the Address, and the whole conduct of the Government towards Spain, which reflected discredit beyond measure upon all those who were instrumental in our recent proceedings with regard to that country. Paragraphs appeared in the newspapers of the day detailing the nature of our interference with the internal concerns of that country, and unfolding monstrous crimes and horrors, in no small degree created by our wanton and unprincipled tampering, which were a reproach to the present age, and fixed a blot on our humanity. He could not be supposed to know what estimate Gentlemen opposite set on their own character, but if he were to judge from the decision that all unprejudiced and impartial men had pronounced on it, he should look on it as reduced to a very low standard. The abetting of sanguinary courses of public and uncalled for confiscations of property, of devastation of whole districts, was not a course that could or ought to be expected from the Government of Great Britain. Why, he would ask, should the British Parliament lend its approval to the measures of any government in friendly relation with it that was guilty of such barbarities as were practised at Barcelona and other places? How did the Government act in their intercourse with Spain? They had virtually sent out, by their connivance at a public enlistment, hordes of ruffians from the purlieus of London to wage war against a nation with whom we professed to be at peace. By this act they degraded the character of the British officer and the British soldier. It was an insult to British feeling. Even the British navy was tainted by their unusual and dishonourable conduct, by their making British vessels
 118
 Mr. Brotherton  approved of this suggestion, and were it not carried, he should persevere in moving the Adjournment of the House every night at twelve o'clock.
 Mr. Hume  said, the hon. Member for Dover had characterised the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster in a manner and in language that could not be borne in any civilized country. There were no epithets in the English language worse than those which the hon. Gentleman had applied to his hon. and gallant Friend, and to the British troops which were serving under him. Did the hon. Gentleman seriously think that a gallant officer, who had so highly distinguished himself in the British service, ought to have been spoken of in such terms? The time would come when his hon. and gallant Friend would have an opportunity of vindicating himself; but as that time had not arrived, he (Mr. Hume) could not refrain from protesting against the course which had been pursued by the hon. Member for Dover. The language used by the hon. Member was entirely inapplicable to the object of his attack, who was perfectly justified in what he had done. Was it the first time that English troops had fought under foreign banners? And for what did they fight? For the cause of the constitution and for the cause of liberty. He would take upon himself to say that, considering the whole of the language used by the hon. Member for Dover and the hon. Member for Sandwich, with respect to the system of proceedings in Spain, those hon. Gentlemen ought to be grateful for any assistance that was calculated to put an end to such a system. Did the hon. Member for Dover suppose that there was any man in that House, on which side so ever of it he might sit, who approved of the atrocious proceedings of either the Carlists or the Republicans; or who would give his sanction to the dreadful proceedings which had taken place at Barcelona or elsewhere? It was true that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had in that House distinctly characterized those proceedings, and had condemned Mina and the other individuals connected with them in the manner in which they deserved to be characterised; but did the hon. Member for Dover, therefore, suppose that there was any man in that House prepared to defend those proceedings? For himself, he willingly admitted that it was impossible to conceive any thing more horrible than the Barcelona murders. But what was
 127 128 129
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Member for Worcester had assigned a very good reason why certain Members who could not attend there should not be Members of that House at all; but surely it was somewhat an extraordinary reason to give why that House should not transact its business at the most convenient hours for itself and the public. No man should enter that House who was not prepared to sacrifice his whole time, if the public service required it; and those whose private engagements prevented them from so doing had better attend to their own business exclusively. With regard to his Majesty's Ministers, he was not one of those who thought the presence of his Majesty's Ministers essential on ordinary occasions. That House was overcharged with business. All private business ought to be removed from that House, and some plan should be adopted which would enable them to give the whole of their time to public business. What comparative importance was it whether a particular road was to be formed in Devonshire or Yorkshire or not, and yet to decide upon questions such as these some of the most important and valuable Members of that House were taken away from the consideration of matters of the greatest public moment. There was no other assembly on the face of the earth which at one and the same time took charge of all the public business of a great nation, and of all its private business too. What was the result? Why, towards the end of every Session, fifty, sixty, or seventy notices were constantly left upon their books; and no man could be a single Session there without being convinced that even what business they did was three-
 112
 Mr. Borthwick  expressed his admiration of that part of the noble Lord's (Palmerston's) remarks in which he stated that the praise given in the King's Speech to the vigour and prudence of the Queen's Government was not meant to include the conduct of Mina and other Officers in her service. The noble Lord had asked why, if Don Carlos had such a large military force and such pecuniary resources, he had not been more successful? But the question might be retorted, and it might be asked why, if the cause of the Queen was so firmly fixed in the hearts and affections of the Spanish people, she had not been able to establish her authority over any part of her dominion; or why had it been necessary to send out a large; armed force from this country to enable
 145
 Mr. Potter  could not but regret the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Trevor) in reference to the hon. and Gallant Member for Westminster. The reflections attempted to be east upon the conduct of that Gallant Officer he thought were wholly uncalled for. As regarded the Speech delivered from the Throne, he confessed that to him it had afforded unbounded satisfaction, and as it became known throughout the country he had no doubt but that the feeling of satisfaction would become general. As a Dissenter, he begged leave to thank his Majesty's Ministers for the intimation which the Speech conveyed of their intention speedily to remove those grievances under which the Dissenting bodies still laboured. Upon that point he hoped he might congratulate them that one of the intended measures of relief would be the removal of the odious impost known by the name of Church-rates. He rejoiced exceedingly in the decision to which the House had come last evening, because he felt it would carry peace to Ireland, and to enable us to carry on the Government of that country without the necessity of maintaining so large a military force as unfortunately had hitherto been found requisite. He hoped, also, that the men and estimates for the navy would be met by a large reduction of those for the army.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex that private business, and even questions as to the establishment of railroads, might with great propriety be intrusted to some subordinate authority—perhaps with the safeguard of an appeal to a Committee of that House. It might be referred to the Justices at Quarter Sessions, or to a delegation from the Justices of several counties ( arrondissements
 Mr. Ewart  observed, with reference to the accusation preferred by the hon. Member for Durham against his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, of treating the House of Lords with disrespect, that the House of Lords had on former occasions been compelled to adopt measures which had been advocated by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and that it was exceedingly probable that they would be obliged to do so again. There were measures which the hon. Member for Middlesex would advocate that might be carried—that must be carried through the other House. The hon. Member for Sandwich had panegyrized with some vehemence the phraseology in which the hon. Member for Dover had characterized the conduct of one of the parties in Spain. On that point he would only say, that, like the hon. Member for Middlesex—and he was sure like every other Member of that House—he reprobated inhumanity, on which side so ever it might be exhibited. But there was one part of the speech of the hon. Member for Sandwich against which he must strongly protest: he meant the passage in which the hon. Member spoke of the enmity that existed between this country and France. He must say that he had heard with great regret and pain the declaration, that because one generation might have cherished such an enmity it must be cherished by the next generation also. This was a strange and unphilosophical view of the tendencies of nations, and he trusted it Would prove to be an
 132 "Jamais l'exil n'a corrigé les rois."
 Mr. Ewart  agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex that a very large portion of the local business now transacted by that House might be judiciously transferred to local tribunals. One great source of complaint with him was, the irregularity of the pressure of business of the House upon some Members and not upon others. On what was technically termed "field days" there was a full attendance of Members, but on ordinary occasions the great burthen of attendance fell upon a certain number of Members who felt it their duty to remain at their posts, though they did not feel less strongly the unequal share of labour which was thus imposed upon them. He approved of earlier sittings. Perhaps, the best plan that could be adopted would be, for the House, at the beginning of the Session, to devote three whole solid days a week to public business, and three other days a week to public Committees. This, however, was matter for future consideration; but, in the meantime, as they must make a beginning, and as common sense and the public convenience were both in favour of earlier hours, he thought they could not do better than adopt this Resolution, which he was ready to alter according to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, if that alteration met the views of the House.
 Mr. Ewart  moved, that no business except such as was merely formal should be entered upon after half-past eleven o'clock at night. He had before brought forward a similar Motion last Session, and, though not formally, it had been virtually carried into effect by the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton), and his object was legally to effect what had already been
 109
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that in the whole course of his experience in that House, and it was considerable, he had never heard a more extraordinary proposition than that which had been just made by the hon. Member for Middlesex. That hon. Member had proposed to take away from that House the consideration of all
 113 114 115
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  would not have obtruded himself on the House had he not felt strongly the unjust terms applied by the hon. Member for Middlesex to the speech of the hon. Member for Dover. The hon. Gentleman charged the hon. Member for Dover with using unjustifiable expressions in reference to General Evans. He had listened with pleasure to the speech of his hon. Friend, but felt at a loss to recollect any expressions deserving of the animadversions of the hon. Member for Middlesex. He understood the hon. Members for Dover and Sandwich to argue, that if ever there was an instance of unprovoked and improper interference with a foreign power by Ministers professing neutrality, it was to be found in the conduct of the British Government towards Spain. He fully concurred in this view of the case, and while he denied that the allusion of the Member for Dover reflected upon the character of General Evans, he acquiesced in the opinion that those whom he commanded were the refuse of the rabble of London, and he thought it a disgrace to the British army to find an officer like General Evans, of some distinction, and the possession of considerable reputation, engaged in a species of warfare such as had been alluded to. The hon. Member
 130 vox et pretœrea nihil, 131
 Lord Mahon  rose, not for the purpose of taking any part in the debate; another opportunity would, he trusted, be given to him to express his opinion on the subject; but he rose to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. The noble Lord had stated, and he had heard that statement with unmixed pleasure, that the noble Lord had shown such zeal in the cause of humanity as not to confine his application in favour of the prisoners on One side only, but had on the first day of September last, interposed on behalf of the prisoners taken by the Queen of Spain. The question he wished to put to the noble Lord was this. What was the result of that application; and were the lives of those unhappy beings spared?
 Viscount Palmerston : It is not my intention to trespass upon the attention of the House for more than a very few minutes; but, in consequence of the turn which the debate has taken, I am anxious to offer a few words before the report of the Address is agreed to. I must begin by expressing my sincere regret that any hon. Members should have thought it expedient—should, have thought it consistent with their sense
 138 139 140 l. 141
 Viscount Palmerston : Well, then, I will only say, that so far from wishing to deny the letter, I fairly tell the hon. Member that I felt great satisfaction in having the opportunity afforded to me of writing it. I think that the application of the Bishop of Leon, addressed to me, came ill from him, and at an ill time. I do not wish to speak harshly of those in whose opinions, sentiments, or feelings, I do not concur; it is a practice I do not follow. I will say nothing, therefore, of the Bishop of Leon, which shall at all contradict what the hon. Member for Sandwich has said in his praise. It happened, however, that but a short period before the letter of the Bishop was addressed to me, the English Government had sent a special mission to the head-quarters of Don Carlos, for the purpose of endeavouring to prevail on him to disavow and retract the bloody edict by which it was declared that all foreigners
 142 143
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, the determination of his Majesty's Government to take this subject into their consideration had relieved him from much of the difficulty by which he had felt himself surrounded. He was glad that the noble Lord opposite, and his colleagues in the Administration, had taken this question into their own hands, as he was confident that the knowledge of Government having taken up the question of agricultural distress with a view of discussing it would produce a beneficial result among the owners and occupiers of the soil. He had himself endeavoured in vain to carry such measures as he thought calculated for the relief of agriculture. He therefore was rejoiced to find that the Government was at last determined to come forward in favour and support of so large a body of his Majesty's subjects. He was glad to hear the noble Lord say., that it was not his intention to fetter the powers of examination given to this Committee. Had not that been the case, his object would have been to move for the appointment of a Select Committee, with full powers of inquiry. Without giving any opinion of his own on the important subject of the Currency, he would say that it would be unfair, in case hon. Gentlemen thought that they could make out a case on that subject, to prevent them from being heard. He would not say whether the Currency was the cause of the present distressed state of agriculture or not; but this he would say, that the time had now arrived when there must he a full and fair inquiry into what was the cause of it, and as the noble Lord opposite had told the House that was not the intention of his Majesty Government to fetter the Committee, or it interfere with its investigations, he should not feel it necessary to move any Amendment. He would take the noble Lord and His Majesty's Government at their
 152
 Colonel Thompson  hoped that attention would be paid in the Committee to those landlords who thought the present Corn-laws were at the bottom of all the distress which the agriculturists were now suffering. He had some time since been asked to reduce his rents in Yorkshire; and he had consented to do so on condition that he should be at liberty to raise them twelve months after the laws were repealed prohibiting the importation of foreign corn. The farmers, too, were becoming converts to the opinion that the Corn-laws were injurious to their interests. He was therefore for trying the experiment of repealing them. Let it not be understood from this that he was for rashly repealing them; no, he was for that gradual removal of them which would prevent any injury from being inflicted on existing interests.
 Mr. Heathcote  did not believe that there existed on the part of any great body of agriculturists the slightest desire for a change in the Corn-laws—they had too much corn in the country already, and did not want more. He believed that great difference of opinion prevailed on the subject of agricultural distress, but this was not the time to discuss the question, and he therefore should not state his sentiments upon it. If the inquiry of the Committee were to be enlarged by the introduction of the currency question, it would never come to an end. What the agriculturists wanted was some immediate practical result from the labours of the Committee. It was to be hoped that result would be attained in the way of a reduction of local taxation. He thought his noble Friend had acted so fairly on the present occasion as to be entitled to the support of the House.
 The Marquess of Chandos  moved that the name of the Earl of Darlington be added to the Committee.
 Mr. O'Connell  felt it his duty to state that, whatever inaccuracy existed in the Report on which this Bill was founded, or whatever want of harmony might be apparent between them, the fault did not rest with the hon. Mover, or with the Committee. It was not supposed at the time that Ireland would be included in any alteration which might be proposed as the result of its deliberations, and, therefore, less evidence had been offered in relation to the system on which the light-houses were governed in that country than would otherwise have been. It was, therefore, judged only fair to exclude Ireland from the effect of any legislation affecting its interests on this point, until they had an opportunity of ascertaining the actual state of things there. He felt it a duty to his constituents and to the Ballast Board of Dublin, to whose care this important department was intrusted in Ireland, to state, that they lately effected some considerable additions, and judicious improvements in this branch of the public service, while, at the same time, they had, by good management, been able to relieve the shipping interest of a portion of the charges hitherto paid by vessels availing themselves of the lights on the Irish coast. They had, in fact, at once reduced the duty and increased the accommodation to the public. It might naturally be asked, at what outlay were these benefits effected? What amounts of salaries were paid for this superior species of management? Not one penny. It was all done gratuitously. This was (as far as he knew) the first instance of a Board not regularly paid which did any good. It had effected especial good in the south of Ireland, where formerly not a winter had passed without numerous shipwrecks, yet he was happy to say that for the last eight winters not a single one had occurred, mainly in consequence of the admirable arrangements of the Ballast Board. These were the
 174
 Lord John Russell  read the names of the Committee, which he proposed should consist of thirty-three Members, the greater proportion being Members for English counties, four for Scotland, and four for Ireland.
 Lord John Russell  said he should divide the House against the addition of any Other names.
 Lord John Russell : I now rise, having called the attention of the House both to the King's Speech and to its own Resolution respecting the Currency, to propose "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the state of agriculture, and into the causes and extent of the distress which exists in some important branches thereof." It has always been
 148 149 s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d., s. d. s., l, l 150 151
 Colonel Sibthorp  should trust in the declaration of Ministers, that they did not intend to fetter the inquiries of this Committee, until he found them unworthy of his confidence. He, therefore, hoped that the hon. Member for Birmingham, whose clear and manly speeches on this subject both in the Central Agricultural Association and in the House he much admired, would not press his Amendment at present, as it was calculated to mar the object which they all had in view.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished that Gentlemen should have sufficient, time to consider the Amendments proposed, as he thought it would be in their power, as it was in his power, to point out a few other absurdities in the Bill of last Session, which he regarded as a most imperfect and most dangerous measure.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was as much inclined now as he was last year to give the Bill every assistance that he could, consistently with his own opinion upon the subject. But when his hon. Friend charged the Government with neglect of duty for not having taken up the Question, he (Mr. Thomson) really could not understand the ground on which that charge was made, on calling to mind what took place last Session when the matter was before the House. At a late period of that Session a Bill was introduced by his hon. Friend on this subject, which led to a lengthened discussion. Upon an appeal being made to the Government, he (Mr. Thomson) stated, on the part of the Government generally, and of the department to which he more particularly belonged, that he was prepared to give assistance to his hon. Friend as far as he could, differing as he did from him on some points; or if his hon. Friend judged it better, he would himself propose a Bill to the House. He was rather surprised, therefore, when he found his hon. Friend, without the slightest notice to him, come down the first day of the Session, and give notice, of his intention to bring in the pre-
 171 172 173
 Mr. Wodehouse  maintained, with every disposition to pay deference to the opinions of the right hon. Baronet, that if the Committee did not extend its inquiries into the state of the currency, it would be quite impossible to recommend any practicable scheme of relief to the distressed agriculturists. He thanked the noble Lord for not having excluded that subject from their consideration, and he earnestly hoped the result would not be found to disappoint the reasonable hopes of a very large and important portion of the community.
 Mr. Cayley  said, that there was a spirit now abroad among the agriculturists, which would not be blinded as to the cause of their situation, or satisfied without inquiry. It was for the House to de-
 156
 Mr. Shaw  declared, that it was exceedingly unjust to include the Ballast Board of Ireland, in the accusations which had been made against inefficient public or private bodies. It was fully established, that the system they pursued had worked well, and was conducted more cheaply, successfully, and satisfactorily than any other, and it would now be the height of injustice to disturb it, on the pretence of bad management or incompetency. He hoped that, under the circumstances, the House would see the inconsistency and unfairness of introducing; Ireland into the contemplated arrangement.
 Mr. Robinson  expressed his conviction of the necessity of placing the subject on an improved footing, though he did not think the proposed course an unexceptionable one. His principal object was to diminish the charges not intended to promote the benefit of the shipping of this country. A nation ought to look to the future as well as the present; and on a subject of such avowed importance all vested interests, whether private or regal, should be rendered subservient to the public service. He was happy to hear the President of the Board of Trade had undertaken to forward the great objects of the Bill, in which he (Mr. Robinson) felt a deep concern, and he should esteem it his duty to lend him his best support.
 Mr. George Young  was sorry that the hon. Member for Middlesex had not given the Bill into the hands of Government, and lamented the pertinacity with which he and the hon. Member for Dublin clung to an anomalous system, which, it was avowed, was of no benefit to the individuals who worked it. He called the attention of the House to the fact, that the item of 42,000 l 175
 The Speaker  stated, that it was not competent for the hon. Member to move his instruction to the Committee until the Committee was appointed.
 The Speaker  having put the Question,
 Mr. Benett  belonged to the class of English country gentlemen, and rose to defend them against the allegations of the hon. Member for Bath, who appeared not to know much about their character; if he did, he would not have denounced them as a useless or unimportant body. The country gentlemen had uniformly done their duty; they were loyal to the King and Constitution, and in their capacity of magistrates had rendered important service to the country. He agreed with the hon. Member for Bath that the labouring class, especially the agricultural labourers, were infinitely the most important portion of the community, but he believed he was more intimately cognizant of their con-
 158
 Mr. Plumptre  agreed with the hon. Member for Bath as to the importance of the labouring classes, but dissented from his assertion that they were not in a state of distress. From his knowledge, he took it on himself to declare the agricultural labourers were at this moment in a state of-great distress. Indeed, it was evident, on the slightest consideration, that they must be so, for when the prices of agricultural produce were depressed, it was impossible for the cultivators to employ their full number of labourers, or to afford them a fair remuneration.
 Mr. Roebuck  hoped that the Committee would distinctly define what was meant by the term "agricultural interest," for great confusion had frequently arisen from not understanding clearly the meaning of the expression. According to his idea, the "agricultural interest" comprised three classes—the first and most important of which was the labourers, and he wished that those who were to determine as to agricultural distress would first determine whether there existed increased distress among the agricultural labourers; and if it should happen that the condition of the labouring farming population of England was at present better (as he believed it to be) than it had been for the last twenty years, there was something to be said against the general proposition of agricultural distress. The next important portion of agriculturists were the farmers, who employed capital in the cultivation of land; and he wanted to learn from the Committee whether the application of capital to land was less profitable than its application in any other business; and, if it were, he wished to know what was
 157
 Mr. Hume , seeing the noble Viscount, the Secretary-at-War, in his place, wished to put a question to him respecting the members of Orange Lodges. On the 11th of August last the House came to certain Resolutions on the subject of Orange Lodges, and on the 31st of the same month, Lord Hill, as Commander-in-Chief, issued an order peremptorily forbidding the attendance of officers or soldiers at Orange Lodges, where so ever or by whomsoever held. He (Mr. Hume) wished [to know from the noble Viscount, whether that order had been carried into effect as regarded both officers and men either attending or continuing to belong to Orange Lodges, and what measures had been taken for that purpose? He was informed that certain General Officers still continued to belong to Orange Lodges in defiance of such order, and that he had seen a published letter of his Royal Highness the Grand Master of the Orangemen, stating, in reply to an address from them, that he was determined to continue their Grand Master, notwithstanding the order issued by Lord Hill. Now, as they had seen private individuals dismissed from the police in Ireland for belonging to Orange Lodges, he must say, that the Government was bound to deal justly and impartially with the high as well as the low; and, in his opinion, the more elevated the situation of the offender, the more prompt should have been the application of the punishment.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for vesting Light-houses on the coast of England in the Trinity-house of Deptford Strond. In 1834, a Committee sat a long time to inquire into the subject of the light-houses of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and made a report thereon. As chairman of that Committee he was instructed to bring in a Bill with a view to consolidate those three important branches under one Board in London. He did so, but the Bill met with considerable opposition. In the first place, his hon. Friend the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and the Irish Members generally, objected to their light-houses being transferred to the Trinity-house, which was the course recommended by a majority of the Committee. The Members for Scotland also did not think the Trinity-house the most proper Board to place their light-houses under; and he must candidly say, that such was his own opinion. He could wish the subject to be taken up as a Government question, and that there should be a separate Board under which these three great branches should be placed, with a view of establishing one uniform regulation among the whole, instead of their being as now, conducted under three different sets of regulations. The rate of charge for ships, it was well known, differed greatly in the three countries; and it was most extraordinary that a naval nation like this should have arrived at its present state of greatness without any Government
 167 l l 168 l 
 
 Revenue £83,000 
 Expense of collection £6,600 
 Maintaining the lights in repair 35,900 
 42,500 
 Leaving a sum of £40,500 l 169 
 
 In 1833, yielded a revenue of £79,676 
 Expenses of collection £10,000 
 Maintaining the lights 9,354 
 19,354 
 Thus leaving a surplus of £60,322 l l l 170
 Mr. Pease  said, that it appeared to be taken for granted, that the whole amount specified by the hon. Member for Middlesex might be consistently viewed as surplus; but this, he believed, was not the case. The funds so raised by lighthouse dues were properly intended, and liable to be appropriated, to the improvement of coasts which yet needed the aid of the Trinity or some other Board, and the application of these very funds in providing an extension of illumination, and other accompanying measures, for the safety of shipping, completion of harbours, the improvement and repairs of light-houses, &c. If these funds were taken away, the Trinity-house would necessarily be debarred from accomplishing the great national ends which this Bill appeared designed to promote. He thought, that a certain portion of this surplus ought to be annually taken for the improvement of particular portions of the coast  seriatim.
 Colonel Parry  was happy to add his testimony in favour of the conduct of the Board of the Trinity House, who were looked up to with gratitude by the poor receivers of its pensions. These trifling annuities were not receivable till the claimant was past seventy; and, it was further stated as a qualification, was not able to beg. Representing, as he did, the interests of six seaports, and of a numerous maritime population, he felt happy in stating his conviction, that his constituents would be quite satisfied with the progress of the Bill under the care, which the President of the Board of Trade had promised to extend to it. He hoped, that Mr. Hume and the Government would agree to carry on the measure with a good understanding, and that the poor individuals dependent on these pensions for their subsistence would not be overlooked.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman of one great defect in the present law, that of withholding from the Town Council the appointment of the Magistrates. The Bill, as originally introduced last year, gave the Council that power. It was a most important political right, and he thought that part of the measure, as it was first brought in, ought to be revived, and certainly this was a very good opportunity for doing so. Another defect was the qualification clause. It was very objectionable, and ought to be abolished. There ought to be no other qualification required to be-
 166
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said, that observing so strong a feeling for unanimity in the House, he would refrain from pressing his Amendment.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  rose for the purpose of moving that "it be an instruction to the Committee particularly to inquire into the effect which the Bill of 1819, commonly called Peel's Bill, had produced in causing the present distress of agriculture. The general opinion of the agricultural classes now was, that the whole of their distress was to be attributed to that Bill, and to that Bill alone. The noble Lord, on a former occasion, had told the House that there must be a large reduction of rents; but, if that were so, why should there not be simultaneously a large reduction of dividends? If the landowner were called upon to reduce his rents, the fundowner should be called upon to reduce his dividends. That was only equal justice; for the landowner had as good a right to be protected from wrong as the fundowner. In what a state would the landlords of England be, if, after the thirty per cent, which they had already reduced, they were called upon to make a further reduction of fifty per cent, in their rents? Under the present standard of value, the noble Lord must know that the tenantry must be ruined, unless the landlords were ruined before them. Indeed, one-half of the tenantry were ruined already, and the other half was travelling rapidly on the road to ruin. When the tenantry had reached that destination, the landlords would not be far behind them, and the mortgagees would soon take possession of their estates. The noble Lord, perhaps, thought that things had already come to the worst. That was not the fact. We had fifty per cent, lower to go still. There was not a shilling of rent now obtained that was not obtained through that accursed tampering with the Currency, which had been going on for the last twenty years. He had himself no interest in the land, he was only a friend to his country. He should not lose a shilling if all the farmers in the country were ruined, but, as a loyal subject, so long as he had life he would lift up his voice, against the iniquity of the present system. There had already been delusion upon delusion, and deception upon deception. The industrious classes had been told of over-trading, over-speculation, over-production, and over-population, but nothing
 154 155
 The Attorney-General  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Municipal Corporations Act of last year. He was understood to state, that the Act of last year had worked quite as well as, under all the circumstances, could possibly have been expected. In a measure, however, of so extensive and sweeping a character, it was found that some few Amendments were necessary to render its operation easy and perfect. To effect such Amendments was the object of the Bill which he was now about to move for leave to introduce. In a few instances, as in the cases of Rochester, and Newport in the Isle of Wight, there had been an equality of votes in the election of Towncouncillors, so that in fact no Aldermen were returned. In such cases it was proposed for the future to give the casting vote to the senior councillor. Again, where there might be any dispute by the law as it now stood, about the title of the returning officer, it was proposed that the supposed flaw in his title should mot vitiate any election where the parties had been chosen  bona fide
 The Attorney-General  also moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the more effectual Registration of persons entitled to vote in the election of Members to serve in Parliament in England and Wales. The object of the Bill was to simplify the registration of voters by affording facilities to  bonâ fide
 Sir Robert Peel  wished sincerely that he could participate in the expectation entertained by some of his hon. Friends as to the practical advantage to result from the appointment of the Committee. He did not, however, entertain that expecta-
 159 160 161 Mr. O'Connell: 162 163
 Mr. Clay , till he saw the Report of this Committee, would not bring forward the Motion respecting the Corn-laws of which he had given notice.
 Viscount Howick  begged to say, it was the intention of his Majesty's Government
 147
 Viscount Sandon  would not allow the Irish Members to stand alone in their praise of the Ballast Board, whose merits he was happy to substantiate. He disliked the spirit of monopoly, and would be glad to see each country administering its own proper department of the public service. When a late attempt was made to break up the old establishment of Kilmainham Hospital, he was proud of the opportunity it afforded him of upholding the lights of Ireland, and advocating the consideration which should ever be extended by the Legislature to the feelings of old soldiers in the peaceful sanctuary where they had retired to end their days. He protested against the principles advocated by the hon. Member for Tynemouth, which, if admitted, would let in the interference of all the foreign shipping inter-
 176
 Sir Edward Knatckbull  was as anxious as the noble Lord, or any other Member of the House, for a satisfactory settlement of the Question of Tithes, and he could assure the noble Lord that some measure upon the subject was most earnestly looked for by the agricultural interest throughout the whole kingdom. He had attended very closely to the statement made by the noble Lord that evening, and although he could not entirely concur in the whole of it, he was most anxious to give the plan proposed a fair hearing, and with that view he should defer urging any objection until he saw the Bill in a more advanced stage. He would only say that with regard to the assessment of hop-grounds, in which he of course was very deeply interested, he much doubted whether the noble Lord's plan would be found to operate impartially.
 An Hon. Member  wished to know whether the reduction which it was proposed to make was to be made upon the gross amount of the produce of the land, or upon the amount of tithe actually taken in kind? If the former were the intention, how would it be possible to ascertain what the gross produce of the land had been during the last seven years? He could further assure the noble Lord, that if the
 210
 Mr. O'Connell  thought that everything which had been said went to prove that the Bill proposed by the noble Lord might be brought in, because it was on all hands admitted that it would abrogate a bad law, and substitute a better one in. its place. What the details of the Bill should be, would be matter of consideration for the Committee. According to the alien law in Ireland, any Protestant, from any part of the world, was immediately naturalized on his arrival there. No Protestant, therefore, could be treated as an alien in Ireland. He had no objection to the continuance of such a law, provided the naturalization were extended to all other persons.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the House should be very cautious in carrying the principle sought to be laid down by the hon. Member for Middlesex to the extreme either of taxing the public for their own convenience, or of diminishing the income which these persons had received for a number of years, and in consideration and expectation of which they had devoted their lives to the discharge of the duties intrusted to them. What was meant by a fair and adequate compensation? Was' it a compensation to the full amount of what they received at present? If so, it was fair and reasonable, and to those terms he assented; but so far as the present officers were concerned, it was not fair or reasonable that any individual feeling of delicacy relative to the payment of this money should be suffered to affect them. That such a delicacy did exist he could not doubt, after what he had heard from the hon.- Member for Shaftesbury; but he must maintain that it ought not to be allowed to operate against those persons who had families to support, who could not resort to any other profession so late in life, and who could only continue to be door-keepers, and nothing else. Well then, admitting that these persons should receive some compensation, the only remaining question was out of what fund that compensation should come. He confessed he did not like the idea of making it a charge upon the public. If the proposed arrangement would make a sufficient saving in one department to compensate the officers in another, that was a good argument in favour of the alteration, but if this were not the case, he certainly did not feel disposed to increase the public burdens for
 221
 Mr. Fraticis Baring   said, that he looked at the Resolution as a part of the new plan recommended in the Report of the Committee, which had far its object the entire revision of the system by which the officers of the House were remunerated. He did not regard it, as the right hon. Baronet had stated, as a mere vote for the purpose of saving their own pockets. No one who had read the Report could say that he present system did not deserve the attention of the House. Other parties were looking with some sort of jealousy at the mode in which their public servants were paid. Those who were doing their best in. aid of the public service, and who saw their own salaries year after year reduced, could not be indifferent to the fact, that the salaries of the officers of the House of Commons remained untouched. He admitted that the duties of the House were well discharged, and that the persons now in possession of office ought to be considered with great tenderness, and he should be perfectly ready to agree to a y amount of salary the House might consider the present holders entitled to receive. If it were true, that one of the door-keepers received above 1,100 l l 219
 Mr. Goulburn  thought that it was not a question that came strictly within the legislation of the House. It was rather one of personal accommodation of individual Members. The doorkeepers were in the habit of undertaking various duties not incumbent on them, and taking trouble and attention in a variety of matters which hon. Members ought to attend to themselves. They separated papers and kept them distinct for hon. Members, who, if they did not like the trouble of keeping their own papers in order, ought to have no objection to give proper compensation to those who did. They were already, it was true, paid by salary; but it was in the contemplation of the House to compel them to undertake the other duties which they now discharged for the convenience of individual Members. He thought the precedents alluded to were not in point, for clerks in public offices had now their regularly defined duties and salaries, with retiring allowances on which they could depend; but these individuals were differently circumstanced, and hon. Members ought to be allowed to pay them as they pleased for facilitating their business. He knew something of the feelings of clerks in public offices; he knew that they were a class of men not less devoted to the interests of the public than those two individuals who officiated at the door of that House, and he thought himself warranted in assuring hon. Members that those individuals would not as a class feel hurt in any respect at any gratuities which the door keepers of that House might be permitted to receive for their extra endeavours to accommodate Members of Parliament in the despatch of their business. For himself, he would say, that he did not object to any regulations which the hon. Member might introduce for the better regulation of the offices of the House of Commons, but he did object to the specific proposition which would prevent him giving a gratuity to any officer if he pleased, when he thought he deserved it by attentions independent of his duty.
 Mr. Ewart Gladstone   said, that the House should first decide out of what fund the compensation should be paid, and then apportion it to the full amount of the salary which each officer at present received. As the charge was confessedly to remain in existence during the tenure of these offices by the persons at present holding them, he did not see why the Members of the House should not continue to pay their fees without seeking to throw them on the public.
 Mr. O'Connell  supposed it was not the intention of the hon. Baronet to divide the House in opposition to the bringing in of the Bill. He did not think the time occupied by Counsel in defending a prisoner should be at all considered. The old principle, that "wretches hung that Jurymen might dine," he hoped was long since exploded.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the Relief of the Poor of Ireland in certain cases. A measure similar to that which he meant now to propose was brought under the consideration of the House last Session. He understood that there was no objection to it on the part of Government. Allusion was made in the Speech from the Throne to the state of the Irish Poor, and he believed that hon. Members had every possible desire to ameliorate their condition. The Commissioners for inquiring into the state of the Irish Poor had made a Report, in which it was stated that numbers perished daily in Ireland from destitution and want. Such being the case, he did not mean, not with standing the intimation given by Government upon the subject, to give up his intention of proposing some measure to the House. The Bill which he would ask leave to bring in was drawn up by a gentleman of great legal knowledge and experience. There could be no harm in introducing this Bill to the notice of the House, whatever might be the intentions of Ministers. When he introduced this subject last Session, Gentlemen were not generally so well acquainted with it as they were at present. The Report of the Irish Poor Commissioners was now before the House, and no document that was ever laid upon their table showed a greater amount of suffering, misery, and destitution. He would not detain, the
 227 228 229 s s d
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  having paid a great deal of attention to the subject, was anxious to say a few words on that occasion. He had always felt that it was the duty of Government to take up this ques-
 230
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he felt all the importance and difficulty of the subject. He thought, however, as the Government had referred to it in the King's Speech, they should be prepared to state generally the course they meant to pursue. He did not mean that they should prematurely commit themselves to any specific plan, or go into any details; but they surely might inform the House whether they intended to introduce any measure at all during the present Session, and if so, upon what principle? For his own part, he did not desire to precipitate their decision upon a question involving the most serious consequences to Ireland. He could not see his way to the application of any system of Poor-laws to the peculiar condition and circumstances of that country, but he thought, as the Government had thrown upon themselves the great responsibility of dealing with the question, that individual Members should leave it in their. hands.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt that the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman was most extraordinary. It was the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to bring forward a measure on the subject, as they had already stated as strongly as possible, and in the most authoritative manner. Their views had been expressed as fully as they could be at present; but they could not enter into details. Indeed it would require more ingenuity than the right hon. Gentleman possessed to say how the Government could explain the nature of a measure to be founded on the Report of the Commissioners of Poor-laws, which Report had not yet been, prepared.
 Mr. Young  (Cavan) hoped it was distinctly understood on all hands, that when
 231
 Mr. O'Connell   thought that his Majesty's Ministers had said all that could be required of them at present. He was satisfied that the period had at length come when some system of Poor-laws must be introduced into Ireland. There had, for some time, been a gradual and steady amelioration in the condition of the farmers of the agricultural districts of the West and South of Ireland; and this improvement had, to some extent, descended to the labouring classes. He therefore thought that it was the proper time to bring forward some measures. The system now beginning to be acted upon in this country worked well, and some plan of the kind might be devised to work well in Ireland; but the utmost care must be exercised that the management of it was such that local prejudices and abuses could be efficiently checked. A measure to afford relief to the destitute ought probably to be accompanied with some means to prevent the absorption of the bulk of the labouring part of the population into the pauper class. He would also make another suggestion, namely, that the Poor-law Commissioners should be allowed to allocate lands to labourers with families who were, of course, not so well prepared to emigrate. At the commencement some assistance must be afforded. By these means, however, he felt that they might so regulate the population of the country with reference to the employment of labour, that they need not consider it a frightful prospect to pass a measure for affording relief to the destitute poor of Ireland. He looked forward with anxious and sanguine hopes to the measures, for one would not be sufficient, likely to be introduced by the Government, and he had no doubt that every care would be
 232
 Mr. Scarlett  was surprised that his Majesty's Ministers were not prepared to state their opinions on the subject, when they had announced in the King's Speech that they intended to bring forward some measure. They ought not to have said anything on the subject until they were prepared to state what measures they meant to propose; did they mean to encourage or assist emigration? Was assistance to be afforded to remove a portion of unemployed labour from one district where there was not sufficient employment for it, to one where there was an adequate demand? A surplus quantity of labour in any spot would, of course, prevent any great improvement. He therefore would recommend the encouragement of the emigration of able-bodied labourers; but, as it was, the prospect of such an essential change as the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, without their nature being explained, was calculated to produce great excitement in that country. Great caution must be used in a country like Ireland, where every thing was so essentially different from what obtained in this country. He could not help feeling that the object in view in introducing such a measure was to injure the landlords; this might not be the case; but still he was not satisfied that it was not. He was ready to support any measure for the relief of the distress of the Irish poor; but he doubted whether this could be done advantageously by means of a system of Poor-laws, when he considered the anomalous state of the country.
 Captain Chetwynd  said, that after the almost unanimous expression of assent which the House had formerly given to the similar motion of his hon. Friend, ha should not offer any arguments against it, but should avail himself of the practice of the House, in order, on the occasion of the second reading, to offer to the Bill his most strenuous opposition. He should at that time, in recapitulation of what he had offered to the House on a former occasion, renew his inquiry into the facts stated in the evidence, and bring forward arguments for the purpose of proving that there was not such a necessity for this Bill as some hon. Members supposed. But he should certainly take the sense of the House on the Motion for the second reading of the Bill.
 Colonel Conolly  was surprised to hear the hon. Member for Middlesex—the great advocate of economy—attempting to fasten upon the public a charge which, on a fair estimate, would amount to 6,000 l
 Lord Dudley Stuart  concurred with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that the Bill ought to be referred to a Committee. As it appeared to be the general feeling among hon. Members that aliens
 214
 Lord John Russell  had brought in a Bill to do away with all that seemed to him to be vexations under the present law; but he must say, be had been received as if he were a person endeavouring to impose ungrateful restrictions on aliens, and were disposed to keep up the remnants of a system of tyranny and despotism that formerly prevailed. Certainly it was not his intention, when proposing the regulations embraced by his Bill, to render the situation of aliens in this country in any degree painful or irksome to them. His purpose was quite different. But when we were constantly taking the census of the British population, he did not think that aliens should be especially free from all regulation by which their numbers could be ascertained. It seemed to him that it was far less vexatious to require a man entering this country to say where he came from, and where he was going to, than to be knocking at a person's door, and taking a census of his whole family.
 Lord John Russell : the hon. Member for Middlesex had mistaken what he stated with respect to hop-grounds. It was proposed that the assessment in all existing hop-grounds should be made on an average of the value of seven years; and that all new lands intended to be brought into cultivation for hops, should pay an additional and fixed sum of 15 s 209
 Lord John Russell  thought he had sufficiently explained that the reduction was to be on the gross amount of tithe taken in kind. He conceived that there would be no difficulty in ascertaining what the gross amount had been; because the Commissioners would have before them the actual receipts of the last seven years. Besides, the assessment would be made by persons accustomed to surveying for the purpose of ascertaining the value of tithe. With respect to any objection which the right hon. Baronet the Member for East Kent (Sir Edward Knatchbull) might feel in regard to that part of the plan which related to hops, he could only say that he should be most happy to listen to any suggestion which the right hon. Baronet might please to make upon that subject.
 Lord John. Russell  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the Registration of Aliens. He proposed to abolish the present Alien-office altogether, and to provide a branch of the Home-office, at which Foreigners, instead of undergoing all the unpleasantries arising from the provisions of the present Alien Act, should simply be called upon to declare their names and where they came from. In fact, instead of imposing any restriction upon foreigners, he merely wished to adopt such a regulation as should enable Government to ascertain with precision, how many foreigners might be in the kingdom at any one time.
 Lord John Russell  rose, with great anxiety for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the Commutation of Tithes in England and Wales. The first source of that anxiety was the very great difficulty of the question, a difficulty which he had shown that he did not underrate when he stated, on the formation of the present Administration, that it was his opinion that it was not possible for it to frame a measure comprehending the various provisions necessary upon this important subject unless the whole question which it involved were previously referred to a Select Committee. The right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Tamworth, had stated an opinion of an opposite kind. The right hon. Baronet said, that whatever might be the plan which Government might think best to propose, it would be far better—and, indeed, he thought it the duty of Government—to frame such a plan, and to propose it to the House, than to leave a question of this magnitude open to the consideration of the Committee, without any plan before them, and without any chart or compass to guide them. On reflection and communication with his colleagues, it had appeared to them, that
 186 187 188 189 190 191 192 193 194 s 195 l 196 197
 Lord John Russell : The plan applied to lay impropriations as well as to ecclesiastical tithes. With respect to the second point, which referred to the manner in which the value was to be distributed, of course, in the first instance, the charge would be apportioned in the same manner as tithe was found to be payable for the
 198
 Lord John Russell  —Yes, to all tithes.
 Lord John Russell : Lord Altborp took two courses: he first introduced his Bill, as has been now done, and afterwards moved the House into Committee, and introduced the Bill again.
 Lord Robert Grosvenor  agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex, that the present site of the Houses of Parliament was extremely inconvenient, and he thought great advantage would be derived from the erection of the new Houses in one of the situations pointed out by the hon. Member. Looking at the list of hon. Members' residences, it was perfectly clear that the present position of the Houses was, to nineteen Members out of twenty, altogether out of the way and inconvenient. The free circulation of air was a matter of the utmost importance in a city like this, and nothing could offer greater obstruction to the circulation of air than erecting a lofty building on the banks of a river such as the Thames, in a neighbourhood so choked up with houses as that part of Westminster was. The original intention was that Westminster Abbey should open to the River; and for his part he should prefer seeing that done, with the removal of St. Margaret's Church, which was almost an eye-sore, and the restoration of St. Stephen's Chapel, to having the new Houses of Parliament erected on the present site. Another situation might easily be chosen for the purpose, which would not be liable to the same objection, and he must say that they should not be deterred from placing a building intended for national purposes in a position which would be free from all defects, merely because of the trifling additional outlay of money which it might entail.
 Major Beauclerk  had no objection to the principle of the resolution, but he thought the House would do well to consider the proposition before they changed the salaries of individuals who might have vested rights in their situations. That those individuals would throw themselves on the bounty of the House, he had no doubt; but when the very satisfactory manner in which they discharged their duties to the House was considered, he thought it became hon. Members carefully to watch their interests. He therefore hoped he should not be doing anything improper in proposing that the present salaries of those individuals should be continued during the time they might hold their situations.
 Mr. Hawes  was rather averse to having the site altered. It appeared to him that all the plans laid before the Committee ought to be submitted to public inspection, and that his Majesty's Government ought to afford facilities for such an exhibition. The artists whose plans had not been adopted were, he believed, desirous of an opportunity of exhibiting their works, but he thought the public should be allowed to inspect also the plans which had been selected. The estimated cost to the artists of the ninety-seven plans sent in, was not less than 25,000 l
 Colonel Sibthorp : Whether the hon. Member for Middlesex gave him leave or not, he would take leave to remunerate any one of these officers, even if the Resolution were passed.
 Mr. Harvey  doubted whether any history presented an instance of a more rapid conversion than that which the Bill of the noble Lord was calculated to make. He would convert a very permanent body of political opponents into a very ready body of admiring adherents, for there was something in his Bill well calculated to secure the applause of the landed interest, inasmuch as the measure itself proposed at one blow, and by one concession, in all cases to give up twenty-five percent., and in many cases forty per cent, of the property which he had always contended was the property of the public. There was enough in this Bill secretly and silently to secure the support of a great number of Members, but he could not understand on what ground a positive benefit was to be par-chased at so high a rate, because it was admitted on all hands that to commute the tithe, as it was now collected, into a permanent money payment would be to the cultivator of the soil a great and lasting advantage. But why make a concession to those who were to derive this benefit? He knew it would be said why should objections proceed from a party entertaining the sentiments that this was public property? The public would derive no benefit whatever from this concession. The augmentation of tithes was now converted into a fixed and permanent money payment; beyond that where would be the advantage to the tenant of the land? Although it was not to be expected that the noble Lord had developed all the minutiae of the case, yet he did not gather in what way the lessees were to receive the benefit of concessions, of which the land-
 205
 Mr. Divett  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to disfranchise the borough of Stafford. He did not feel himself called upon to detain the House, as the delinquencies of this borough had occupied so much of their time in previous Sessions. The Bill had originally been introduced at the recommendation of a Select Committee,
 234
 Mr. Robinson  was surprised at the tone in which the proposition of the hon. Member for Middlesex had been received. It was most unfair in the right hon. Baronet to put so illiberal an interpretation on that hon. Gentleman's motives. He (Mr. Ro-
 220
 Mr. Warburton  was inclined to believe that a great majority of the Members of that House paid fees to the door-keepers, not because they received attention and civility, for which they considered themselves bound to make such a return, but because it was the custom. Some hon. Gentlemen paid the door-keepers nothing at all; others paid them one guinea, others paid them two; and out of the whole number he believed that few, in making the present, were actuated so much by a feeling on behalf of the individual, as by the fear that they would be considered shabby if they departed from the ordinary course. The ground on which he supported the Resolution was this: would not the public out of doors very naturally consider it a scandalous job, that the door-keeper of that House should receive a salary of 1,100 l 222 l l
 Mr. Warburton  admitted that the present Bill would remove many vexatious restrictions to which the foreigner in England was at present liable; but when he found the Government inclined to go so far, he only regretted that they would not go one step farther, and remove, every restriction of every kind whatever. Supposing the present measure to pass, how was it to be enforced? The complaint against the old Act was, that it imposed regulations with which the honest would comply, but which the dishonest could always avoid; and that, in the case of the latter, there was no remedy. What remedy was there here? It was provided that every foreigner, on landing in England, should give his name at the Customs, and that the name so given should be forwarded to the Home Office to be registered. Suppose the right name were not given, what remedy was there? And let it be remembered that the very persons against whom it was necessary to have some sort of protection—the very persons who came over here with bad intentions—were the very parties with respect to whom this measure would be inoperative, because they were the very persons who would not give their right names. Was it intended to impose heavy penalties in cases of wrong names being given? or what course was to be taken to make the law operative to any good or useful end? He thought the flimsy regulations imposed by this Bill were wholly unnecessary.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member must be aware that it was not right for him to apply to any other hon. Member the terms of which he had just made use.
 The Speaker  —The language made use of by the hon. Member is not such as ought to be heard within the walls of this House. I feel that it is my duty to interpose, and submit it to the judgment of the House, whether or not such language should be allowed. The hon. Member has imputed dishonesty to another hon. Member, and that certainly is not a term fit to be used here.
 The Speaker  —Am I to understand that the hon. Member means to retract the expression of which he has made use?
 Dr. Bowring  bore his testimony to the inutility of any attempt to prevent the ingress or egress of foreigners, when they were determined to enter or retire from any country, however jealously its frontiers or shores might be watched. A very distinguished person connected with the police in France had told him (Dr. Bow-ring) that the passport system afforded no sort of security whatever, as it was constantly open to abuse. He thought that
 213
 Mr. Kearsley  —"I cannot say what I don't think." [ Loud calls of Chair!
 Mr. Kearsley  —I trust I shall be permitted to say, that I think that if I had acted as the hon. Member for Middlesex has done, I should not have been acting an honest part. [ Cries of Chair! chair!
 Mr. Kearsley  —I cannot speak differently from what I think.
 Mr. Kearsley  said, that as soon as the hon. Member for Shaftesbury(Mr. Poulter) had paid up his arrears, he should be
 218
 Mr. Kearsley  —My remark was intended to apply to the argument of the hon. Member, and not to himself. I know very well the point I wanted to come at, and did not want the Birmingham bridge to carry me safe over.
 Mr. Kearsley  said, that after what had
 241 l Oh! oh. !" "Chair!" and laughter
 Mr. Poulter  never saw persons who so uniformly and respectfully performed their duties to the House, as those officers did who were constantly attending at the door of the House. They always paid to every hon. Member the most uniform attention and respect. But the House ought to look to more important considerations than that. He thanked the hon. Member for Middlesex for bringing forward the whole measure, in order to its final settlement. Anything more disgraceful than the practice which now prevailed could not be conceived, by which appeals were made to Hon. Members for fees or gratuities, not recognised by the House, but as matter of private emolument; thus raising a conflict in the minds of hon. Members, whether they should yield to the suggestions of their private feelings, or act upon their sense of public duty. He had for a long time submitted to pay these fees, but in the last Session, he told the parties he
 217
 Mr. Richards  thought the effect of the gratuities in question was to make the door-keepers, to a certain extent, the servants of individual Members, and to entitle them to a proportionate degree of respect and attention. Why did Gentlemen give fees to post-boys and waiters at taverns? In order that they might receive a greater degree of personal attention. If waiters were wholly paid by the keepers of taverns the visitors could not expect to see that degree of personal attention, and solicitude for their comfort which was so pleasant and gratifying.
 Mr. Roebuck  begged to ask whether the noble Lord had ever considered what the effect would be of our having no Alien Act at all. There was a country much larger than England, and in which, therefore, it was much more difficult to detect the presence of foreigners, but in which there was no Alien Act; he meant the United States of America. An alien might traverse the United States from end to end and never be asked his name or condition. And what inconvenience had been found to arise from this perfect liberty accorded to foreigners? None whatever. And what inconvenience, what difficulty or what danger would arise if a similar
 211
 Mr. Roebuck  supported the Amendment. The right hon. Baronet had remarked that one hon. Gentleman complained of the present site as low and; unhealthy, while another had urged that from the river there was a current of fresh air, which,
 245
 Mr. Hume  was of the same opinion. When he went abroad, and had reason to complain of the operation of the alien law in other countries, he wished to have the opportunity of pointing to the state of the law upon the same subject in England, and bidding the other nations of Europe to follow our example.
 Mr. Hume , while he admitted that tithes were public property, subject to be appropriated by Parliament, and that it was the duty of Parliament to make such an appropriation of them as might be most advantageous to the public, was still of opinion that the present subject was one
 206 207 208 l l l
 Mr. Hume  rose to move that all payments made by Members for the delivery of Sessional papers from the Vote-office, and all gratuities paid to doorkeepers, messengers, and superintendent of the Members' waiting-room should cease. The salaries of the Speaker, and of the Sergeant-at-arms were already regulated by Act of Parliament, as recommended by a Committee of the House, and it became necessary that the remaining officers should be remunerated in a similar manner. At present they were paid by fees, without any system whatever; some being paid to the housekeeper, some to the doorkeepers, and so on, by which much extra trouble was created, so that it became obvious to all that some new regulation should be adopted. With that view, the Committee recommended a consolidation of the different duties, that the fees received by the different
 215 l l l l l l l l l l, l l l l 216
 Mr. Hume  replied, if there were any difference of opinion as to the amount of the gratuities, let an estimate be laid on the Table of the House, and the question would be set at rest; it must not be forgotten, however, that if two sessions occurred in the course of a year, the doorkeepers received two sets of fees. With regard to compensation, if the question were referred to a Committee, it would rest with them to fix a just and equitable amount, as had been already done in a variety of other cases. Why should they adopt as to that House, a principle which was not acted upon in. any other public establishment? Servants were not allowed to take money front individuals in
 223
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to take the opinion of the House upon a point which appeared to him of considerable importance. The first question he had started as a Member of the Committee was, that they ought first to consider what the situation of the Houses should be. He was free to confess that on that occasion he was in a very small minority, but small minorities did not always deter him, and as a proof that they should not be considered as decisive of a question, he might mention he was in the very same minority on a proposition that there should be no competition for plans, and yet the Committee afterwards agreed unanimously to a competition,. This was an encouragement to him in his present object. The only point he blamed himself for was his not taking the sense of the House upon the question when the Report was brought up. He was bound to say that he was not in his place at the moment when that occurred, although it was not often he was absent. Since that period the subject had engaged the attention of many persons in the country, who had never thought of it
 236 237 l 238
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  observed, that if the hon. Member had used unparliamentary language, he was quite sure that the hon. Member had meant nothing towards the hon. Member for Middlesex personally, although the word "unfair" might have been used as applied to the course of conduct pursued without any infringement on the rules of Parliamentary procedure. The phrase used by the hon. Member was certainly one not fit for the society of Gentlemen, and he hoped that an explanation would be afforded.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  begged leave to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give his word that the officers of the House should obtain justice from the Treasury in this reference, and he should be satisfied. He knew from experience the difference which existed in the result where justice was to be procured for small fry and for large fish. In 1796 the Chief Justices of the King's Bench and of the Common Pleas had their salaries raised from 3,000 l l l l l l 224
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  was very happy
 242
 Mr. Gisborne  —Did the noble Lord apply his Bill to mineral tithe?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Bill was not intended to impose restrictions upon aliens, but to relieve them from all restrictions of which they could complain. All that was proposed under the Bill was a simple registration of names. He was aware that under the old Alien Act there were many just grounds of complaint, but he would venture to say that there was nothing of which foreigners had ever complained which would not be completely and effectually met and remedied by the present Bill. All the rubbish, all the nonsense, all the injustice, and he might say all the atrocity of the old law would be effectually swept away by the present measure. As his noble Friend had stated, the sole object of the register was to enable Government, at any time, to know the number and quality of the foreigners who might be resident in this country. As to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bath, he would only say that other persons might pass for Don Carlos as well as he; and if aliens chose to give in false names, he knew not what
 212
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, as he had already said he should, for the purpose of entreating the House to resist the proposition of his hon. Friend. He wished in a few words, to lay the actual facts of the case before the House. His hon. Friend had stated that a Committee had been appointed for the purpose of considering the whole question. That Committee certainly was not to be objected to either for the names of which it was composed or for the ability or the means they possessed of discussing the subject. When it was before them they negatived this proposition after a full consideration of it. But his hon. Friend said, that, having been in a minority, be regretted not having taken the opinion of the House on the point. Why, in fact, the opinion of the House was taken, and that in a manner more authoritative than the mere reception of a Report, because as soon as the Report was laid on the Table, and when they came to the estimates, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was pressed most earnestly to lose no time in carrying into effect the recommendations of the Committee with reference to the situation of the two Houses before any plans were received, or other steps taken. Since then Gentlemen on all sides of the House had entreated him to take a vote in a Committee of Supply, in order to carry on the necessary arrangements, and he was entitled to presume that his hon. Friend was
 239 site 240
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose in pursuance of the notice which he had given, for the purpose of moving the renewal of the Committee, which had been appointed last year, to consider the question of rebuilding the Houses of Parliament. The House would remember, that in consequence of an Address agreed to by that and the other House of Parliament, Commissioners had been appointed to consider of certain plans which were invited to be sent in by public competition. That was a mode which he thought had been wisely recommended by the Committee. In consequence of their recommendation it was the duty of the Commissioners to select out of a stated number of plans, amounting to nearly 100, ninety-seven, he believed, was the exact amount, a certain number, not less than two, nor more than five, as being those which, in their minds, were best adapted and fitted for the purpose in view. They had selected, he believed, four plans. The object of renewing the Committee was for the purpose of the Commissioners laying the plans before them, with a view to their coming to some decision upon them. The
 235
 Mr. Ewart  denied that the Bill of last Session gave the privilege of four speeches to Counsel: the utmost that would be necessary in most cases for Counsel would be to make two speeches; and even that would depend upon the course pursued by the prosecuting Counsel. He denied, also, that the Bill was only carried by a majority of one. The fact was, that the Bill was carried by a large majority, and it was only one Clause of it to which the majority of one applied. As the Bill had passed that House in the last Session, and in the Session before, it surely could not be said that he had not now a  locus standi 226
 Mr. Ewart  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to enable all prisoners to make a full defence by Counsel.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the present Bill he intended should be in every respect the same as the Bill which passed that House last year.
 Mr. Ewart  said, the question was, which was the best situation? He should say that the present was not the best, because the whole neighbourhood was choked up with houses. St. James's being free from this objection, he thought it the more eligible position. He was of opinion that they ought not to hesitate to reconsider the subject merely because the plans had been sent in.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  would not have troubled the House on the subject before it, had not reference been made by the hon. Member for Middlesex to the circumstance of consulting the convenience of the members of the profession to which he (Sir Frederick Pollock) had the honour to belong. He could say for himself, and he thought also for the other members of the bar who had seats in that House, that it was a matter of perfect indifference to them whether the new Houses of Parliament were built in the neighbourhood of Westminster Hall or where St, James's Palace now stands. Quite sure he was that the members of the bar would be the last persons to go against the general feeling of the House. It would be no sacrifice to him if the site were changed, but a matter of absolute indifference. It must also be recollected, when it was used as an argument that the consulting of the convenience of the members of the learned profession was one of the reasons for determining on rebuilding on the old site, that the sittings of the Courts at Westminster Hall were not continuous during the whole period of the Session, but only during Term. The different Courts of Equity during the other portions of the year held their sittings in the neighbourhood of Lincoln's Inn; and the Court in which his practice laid held a great part of its sittings at the other end of the town, in the immediate neighbourhood of the Guildhall of the City of London. Having said thus much as regarded the members of the bar, he would refer to another class of professional persons—namely, attorneys, to whom he believed the proximity of the Courts of Law to the Houses of Parliament was a matter of great importance. When the House of Lords was sitting; in its judicial capacity, and when Committees of both Houses were also sitting, it was a matter of great importance to the members of the profession to which he referred, that the places where their business required them to be present, should not be severed. As to professional men, Members of the House, he need hardly remark, that none of them could practise before Committees of the House.
 Captain Pechell  said that the present Jaw regarding aliens was very oppressive in. one respect, namely, the expensive mode by which the rights of naturalization and denization were to be acquired. He knew many officers who had been for twenty or thirty years in his Majesty's army and navy, who were prevented from acquiring the rights of property by the heavy charges to which they would be exposed in obtaining Bills of naturalization. Leave given.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  believed the Bill of last year was carried by a majority of one in that House, But what had Lord Denman and Lord Brougham said of it? He did not mean to oppose the bringing in of the Bill, for there were many Clauses of it to which he should give his support; but he could not agree to the principle of allowing four speeches to Counsel in defence of a prisoner, and thus unnecessarily occupying so much of the time of the Court.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  asked if the present Bill was intended to be the same as that one which was rejected by the House of Lords last year?
 Sir Robert Inglis  hoped that the House would not be led to believe, by the eloquence of hon. Members, that the question was one of public economy. Hon. Members were called on by the Resolution to save their own pockets alone, and nothing more. It might be right or it might be wrong, but that was not the question. In the first place, respecting the delivery of the Sessional papers, he was bound to state that no charge was made to any hon. Member who applied for them personally at the Vote-office, in the exercise of his Parliamentary functions. If hon. Members wished to have them at their own houses, residing, as many of them did, in the extreme west end of the town, why should they not be called on to pay for the accommodation? With respect to the second branch of the resolution—gratuities to officers of the House—he would only say, that it was perfectly optional to hon. Members to give or withhold them. When they were inclined to give them, no order of the House could prevent spontaneous liberality. When they were not, there was nothing to compel them. The fact was the Resolution, divested of all its accompaniments, would only have the effect o saving the pockets of individuals, but no of benefiting the public in the slightes degree.
 Sir Robert Inglis  complained of the plan of the noble Lord, inasmuch as it would at once reduce the incomes of the clergy to seventy-five or sixty per cent, of their present amount. Had the plan of the noble Lord been adopted three centuries ago, the church would not have stood in the position in which it now did. The oldest property in England was not more than eight centuries old, while that of the church was at least fourteen. What could constitute a better title? If this title failed, all others might follow. He could not understand the distinction between private property and church property, which was sought to be drawn by the noble Lord; but, in his opinion, the noble Lord ought not to take from tithe property any proportion of its security or value by a compulsory provision.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not rise for the purpose of urging any preliminary objection in point of form to the present proceeding, but he nevertheless thought it important that the law of Parliament should be distinctly defined and adhered to in the course to be pursued with respect to tithes; otherwise there would be a variety of conflicting authorities and precedents on the subject. The authority of Lord Althorp would be quoted for having introduced his Tithe Bill in a Committee of the whole House.
 Sir Robert Peel  was aware a mistake had been committed by the noble Lord, who might therefore be appealed to as an authority on both sides, either for proceeding by Bill or Committee, Gentlemen
 199 200 201 202 Lord John Russell meant to adhere to a progressive scale between sixty and seventy-five per cent 203 1 1 204
 Sir Robert Peel  asked the noble Lord whether his plan applied to lay impropristors as well as to ecclesiastical incumbents? The noble Lord had omitted to state how the rent charge was to be apportioned on the land; was there to be a valuation of land, and was the rent charge to be apportioned according to the value? Lastly, what remedy did the noble Lord propose to give the church in case of non-payment of the rent charge—how were arrears to be recovered?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that unless some satisfactory and conclusive reason could be given for adopting the proposal of the hon. Member for Middlesex, it would be of importance to adhere to the decision which the House had already come to. Only
 243 244
 Mr. F. Baring  thought that the Speaker had adopted the only course that was open to him, and was perfectly justified in the steps he had taken. It had been found necessary to check the power of Members to take an unlimited number of printed papers, and the House was perhaps not aware of the immense packages of them that were sent northwards. Bills stood upon different grounds, and were excepted from the Resolution.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that every reason he had heard was one for passing the Resolution of the hon. Member for Middlesex. The records formerly were written legibly, because writing not being a general acquirement at the time, the clerks made up the records. The fees being latterly abolished, the parties now made them up, and they were not so uniformly written.
 Colonel Thompson  suggested, as an improvement on the Motion, that every document of importance coming before Parliament should be printed. He could not see why that which was written should not be as well in print; nor why things should be found in one which were not in the other. With respect to ink, he was able to state that he never saw Oriental ink of any kind fade or lose colour, a fact which arose from the use of lamp black in large quantities in their ink, and its absence in ours.
 Mr. O'Connell  then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law of Libel. As this subject would be fully discussed on the first of second reading of the Bill, he trusted the House would not think it necessary for him now to go further than to state this fact—that every one admitted the law of libel to be at present in a most unsatisfactory state. The noble Lord who lately filled the office of Lord Chancellor was certainly of that opinion; and the noble Lord who now filled that office, when in
 307 l.
 Mr. Hardy : I rise, Sir, to call the attention of the House to a case which involves a breach of its privileges; and as my Motion is of such a nature, I am entitled, by the usages of the House, to claim precedence of all those who have other Motions on the paper. I am induced to avail myself of this privilege on the present occasion, because the case
 273
 Lord John Russell ; I am only anxious to be informed as to the proper mode of proceeding on this question. In order to show that I have no other wish, I tell the hon. Member who has brought forward this Motion, at once, that so far from interposing any Motion of mine, it is my intention to postpone the two Motions of which I have given notice until to-morrow; therefore, so far as I am concerned, I offer no opposition whatever to bringing this case before the House. I only wish to ascertain from the hon. Member for Bradford whether he thinks he is proceeding in this case consistently with the usages of the House observed in cases of Breach of Privilege relating to bribery, and questions of that nature. [An  Hon. Member:
 Mr. Hume : I apprehend, Sir, if this House is called on to form an opinion on any statement or speech founded on the allegations of a petition, that petition ought, according to the visual course, to be presented, printed, and then a day should be fixed for taking it into consideration. It is, I think, rather unfair to call upon the House to discuss the statements made in a petition without knowing its contents. All I can say is, that such a mode of proceeding is not usual, and that it has never been at tempted before to act in such a manner; therefore, I beg to suggest to the hon. Member for Bradford that he does not serve his own case, whatever it may be, by
 274
 Mr. Williams Wynn : I apprehend, Sir, that nothing can be so regular, according to the practice of this House, as when any Member brings under the consideration of the House a breach of its privileges, for the House to hear it—nay, to hear it with or without notice—whether any question is, or is not, before it; and even in the midst of another discussion if a Member should rise to complain of a breach of the privileges of the House, they have always instantly heard him. The practice of the House in this respect may be easily accounted for by this plain reason, that it may be essential that an immediate remedy should be applied and steps taken in the matter without any delay whatever. But when the House is in the possession of the complaint they are to deal with it as they may think fie, either to decide on it immediately, or adjourn the consideration of it to another day. What is the proper course to pursue the House cannot judge until they hear the subject matter of the complaint; when they have heard that, they can decide whether it is best to consider it at once or to adjourn, the question, or to refer it to a Committee of privileges, or a select Committee. Over all these modes of disposing of it the House has a complete jurisdiction, but it is most essential that any hon. Member shall, at at any time, have the right, whatever other business is before the House, immediately to inform the House of any act which in any degree affects the rights of Parliament.
 Colonel Bruen : After the usages of Parliament have been so clearly laid down by the hon. Member who spoke last, I feel no hesitation in rising to present the petition which has been intrusted to me from certain freeholders of the county of Carlow; but, in doing so, it is not my intention to trespass at any length upon the patience of the House in calling the attention of hon. Members to the transactions to which it refers. I shall at once, therefore, read an abstract of the facts of the case, because by so doing I shall save time and trouble. The hon. Member read an abstract of the following Petition which we give entire on account of the importance attached to it.
 Mr. Hardy  rose to present his petition.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose at the same time, and upon its being suggested to him by an hon. Member near him that he ought to give way, he replied, "No, I will not," and proceeded to address the House: Sir, the reason for my interfering between the presentation of these petitions must be obvious to the House. Let me in the first place say, that I hope there is not a single man in the House who
 277
 The Speaker  said, I am sure the hon. and learned Member will see, on the least reflection, the propriety of explaining the expressions which he has used.
 Mr. O'Connell : Perhaps, Sir, I may be excused if, with the provocation, I received,
 278 oh, oh! The Orange Den! was 279 l.
 Colonel Bruen : With respect to what the hon. and learned Gentleman has stated as to my not giving him notice of an intention to present the petition which was intrusted to me on this subject, I really did not think that any other notice than what I put on the votes was necessary of a petition, which contained charges with which the hon. and learned Member must have been familiar. With respect to the charge made against me of having desolated villages, all I shall say in reference to it is, that it is just as true as the generality of the accusations which fall from the him. and learned Gentleman's lips. I have no doubt that it will be received by the House with that degree of credit which they generally attach to the hon. and learned Gentleman's assertions. With regard to may private character as a landlord, I do not dread a comparison with the hon. and learned Member, or any other landlord in or out of Parliament in that capacity; and I am happy to say, that the great majority of the freeholders of Carlow, if they were allowed to vote as they themselves pleased, would prove, to the satisfaction of the public and the country, that the character which I bore as a landlord before reform lessons, as they have been called, were taught the electors, still remains the same. But the fact is, that three-fourths of those who voted for the Hon. Gentleman petitioned against, did so against their inclination, and under fear of losing their lives. Hon. Members who belong to this country may be astonished at what I have said but I state what are undoubted and
 280
 Mr. John O'Connell  said, it can hardly be expected that I should be able to command my feelings after the expressions which have been uttered with reference to me by the hon. Member who has spoken last but one in this discussion. There are ties and relations between that hon. Member and myself which I shall not farther refer to than to say, that I find it extremely difficult to repress my feelings, after what has taken place to night, and after the observations which he has addressed to the House. I will, however, at once address myself to the matter under discussion, and say, that although I believe the present attack upon me is made for the sole purpose of injuring him, yet I care as little for it as I am sure he does. I, just as he, court inquiry, and am most anxious to have a Committee appointed. The hon. Member who spoke last called on me, as one of the Members of this House, to vote for a Committee, which he says will prove most useful in supplying information to the inhabitants of this country as to the practices at elections in Ireland. I am quite willing, Sir, to vote for such a Committee. I call upon him to do the same, find let an impartial inquiry be instituted into the conduct of both parties. I do not know what infernal machine may be in store for us; so I shall intrude no longer on the patience of the House, than to say that I am, and always have been, and ever shall be, ready to answer, either here or elsewhere, for any conduct of mine which may be considered objectionable or unjustifiable. [" oh
 Mr. Hardy : I have a Petition to present on this subject, signed by several inhabitants of Bath, who are entitled "the Friends of Purity of Election and the Enemies of Corruption." I would prefer to my reading the petition that it should be read by the Clerk of the House. As to the charge of not having presented a copy of this petition to the hon. and learned
 281 J. Russell: 282
 General Palmer  was understood to express his surprise and regret, that such a petition as that which had been just read, had not been intrusted to him for presentation, because he had never since he entered that House refused to present any petition which he was called on to bring under its notice, no matter what might be the feelings of parties by whom it was agreed to.
 Mr. Roebuck  felt himself called upon to say something respecting the petition from Bath; and first in answer to the assertion of the hon. Member opposite, who bad said that it emanated from his supporters. He was happy to be able to say in their name, that he repudiated the petition wholly as proceeding from his supporters—repudiated it both as to its spirit and in the way of carrying it on. To prove that the petition did not emanate from his supporters, he would state, that it proceeded from a society of persons calling themselves the "Liberal Association," who had taken that name lately, because they knew that none other would be popular, and under that name, to which they had no true claim,
 283
 Mr. John O'Connell  said, he was a very young Member—perhaps the youngest in the House; however, he begged to be allowed to mate his own defence, and required no person to make a defence for him. Young as he was, he had sufficient sense to know what business he was sent about, and when he went with the papers he was fully aware of what he was doing, and felt
 288
 Mr. Hardy  said, that when he made the observations referring to the conduct of the hon. Member who had just sat down, he trusted they would have been taken in the same spirit as they were made in. He had stated that on the face of the proceeding he saw nothing to impute in the way of blame to the hon. Member, because, whatever of secrecy there was in paying the money, he might know nothing whatever of the circumstances under which it was given. The hon. Member might go to a party, and receive the money without being cognizant of the circumstances of the transaction. With respect to this proceeding, if the House would allow him, he would state, in two or three moments, how he happened to appear in his present situation. He was a member of the Bribery and Intimidation Committee, which had sat for so long a time last Session, and he had previously belonged to a Select Committee on the subject of bribery to which a Bill brought forward by him was referred. In that Committee they had the honour of the assistance of the Speaker as a Member. It was his intention to bring his Bill forward again, and he had given notice of it early last Session, but before the day appointed for its introduction, a Motion was made by the present Under Secretary for the Colonies; to appoint a Select Committee on Bribery and Intimidation. Immediately, upon that Motion being made, he proposed that his Bill should be presented to the Committee, in order that having gone through the ordeal of two Committees, it might come before the House in a shape best adapted to effect its object. When the Bill was under consideration before the Committee, there was a Clause in it supplying a defect in Curwen's Act, and fixing a penalty on persons receiving money to procure the return of Members to Parliament; but it was thought that such a Clause would not be necessary now, as there could be no nomination in boroughs under the Reform Bill, and he never knew of nomination in. counties before. He agreed that the Clause should be struck out, and accordingly it was. Some time after the close of the Session, however, in the month of October, there appeared a correspondence in the public papers between Mr. Raphael and the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and then it seemed to him that the provision which had been struck out of his Bill was not al-
 289
 The Speaker  called the hon. Member to order, the limits of which he was now transgressing. The only question was, that the petition do lie on the Table, and when that was decided, it would be for the hon. Member to state what course he meant to take.
 Mr. Hardy  would in that case postpone any observations. He was only anxious to show, that he was influenced by no motive but the discharge of his public duty.
 Colonel Parry  observed, in reference to a complaint made by an hon. Member, as to the Bath petition not having been intrusted to him, that he was sure no reflection was intended upon the venerable character of that individual. He hoped the inquiry would be fairly conducted, and wherever blame was found to rest there it might fall. He must hold up both his hands against the doctrine of the hon. Member for Bradford, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was to be responsible for the conduct of his son. The hon. and learned Member must have anxiety enough without this consideration being added to it. In conclusion, he had only to add, that he should vote for an inquiry.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Member for Carnarvon had mistaken him if he supposed that he declined to be responsible for the Member for Youghal. What he said was, that there was nothing in the conduct of the Member for Youghal, that required defence, or called upon him to interpose the shield of his authority over his son; that was what he said, and he defied the hon. Member to contradict, him.
 Colonel Parry : The hon. Member for Dublin spoke in defiance of him, but that must be owing to the hon. Member's misapprehension of what he said. What he said, or meant to say, was, that he held up both his hands against the doctrine of the Member for Bradford, because it wens to annoy the feelings of the hon. and learned Member, already sufficiently excited, by making him responsible for the hon. Member for Youghal.
 Mr. Hardy  moved, that the petitions be printed and taken into further consideration on Tuesday next.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  thought that there should be as little delay as possible. He would suggest Monday as the best day for the discussion, unless that would be inconvenient to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin.
 Lord John Russell  thought it would be more convenient to postpone the discussion
 291
 Mr. Hume  hoped there was no wish to show any want of courtesy in the present case, and, as the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had already named Tuesday, he put it to the gentlemanly feelings of the House not to press the matter any further. Twenty-four hours would really make very little difference; and, as another very important subject had been fixed for Monday, Tuesday would be quite time enough to proceed with the inquiry.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the reason he preferred Tuesday was, that he regarded the whole charge as a mock solemnity. The noble Lord (Stanley) might differ from him. He considered the charge a ridiculous one, instigated, not in that House, but out of it, by the grossest party spirit; and repeated in that House by men who had employed all their lives in bribing and corrupting. He wished for Tuesday, because there were two important questions fixed for Monday, in the discussion of which he wished to take a part. Tuesday would be quite time enough, and he could assure the House he should repose with the utmost  nonchalance No, no. Order,
 The Speaker  was sure the hon. and learned Member would see at once that the expression he had used was very strong, and altogether unparliamentary.
 Mr. O' Connell  was sorry if he had made use of unparliamentary language. If he had done so, he begged leave to retract it; but he did not think that to say he had been untruly accused was very unparliamentarily language. If it were so considered by the House, he had no feelings of resentment to gratify, and therefore he repudiated the expression. Having said thus much, he would not enter into the subject more at length, beyond again expressing the hope that the House would postpone till Tuesday further discussion.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, it would be a serious inconvenience to postpone the inquiry which, had been fixed for Monday; and as the noble Lord opposite (Stanley) would have on that evening to meet a very important charge, which would be brought against himself, he had no doubt he would be anxious that it should take precedence of the discussion in which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was personally implicated.
 Lord Stanley  could assure the House that, as he had never shrunk from the discharging of any part of his public duty, so he never would shrink from meeting any charge made against him by the hon. Member, or any one else. It was a matter of perfect indifference to him whether the Motion of the hon. Member for Bath came on upon Monday or on any other day; and it was equally indifferent to him, as far as he was personally concerned, whether the Motion relative to the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was fixed for Tuesday or not. Whatever that hon. and learned Member might be pleased to think of the delicacy by which his enmity towards him was characterized in that House or elsewhere, he trusted it would never lead him to take any step which would be disgraceful to his feelings as a Gentleman and as a Member of that House. He considered the hon. and learned Member's political character and political position fraught with danger to the empire at large. Politically he had always opposed him, and he thanked his candour when he declared it was a high gratification to hear the expression of his belief, that during the Administration of Lord Grey he (Lord Stanley) had essentially served to thwart that hon. and learned Member's political schemes. But political grounds of hostility
 293 294 l. 295
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the noble Lord had totally misstated him. He never said that the noble Lord had acquitted him; he had not even insinuated it; all he said was, that he understood the hon. Member for Bradford to exonerate him completely from pecuniary corruption. The noble Lord put it unfairly; but he ought to have listened to what had been said before he rose to make his speech. The noble Lord had also said that he could not see why any postponement should be required. Where was the noble Lord when the petitions—the first tangible ground laid before the House for inquiry—were ordered to be printed? Did the noble Lord mean to say that it was not a fair and legitimate course to require that they should be printed? For what purpose? That in the reply to them, deliberately made, that calumny against him so industriously circulated—that calumny which the noble Lord had repeated tonight, in defiance of the facts, should be repelled from that House, and every one of those insinuations which the noble Lord threw out, shown to be as unfounded as were ever dictated by malevolence, and countenanced by party spirit. That was his object. Not one word had fallen from the noble Lord of charge against him. but he should be able to prove it wholly destitute of the slightest shadow of truth. When the noble Lord talked of having thwarted him
 296
 Viscount Horvick  rose to order. He was sure the House would feel, that the hon. and learned Gentleman having been already heard on this question, it was not desirable he should again persist in addressing it. He certainly was not surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman should at that moment still wish to be heard; for he confessed that he listened with feelings of the very deepest regret to the speech made by the noble Lord who immediately preceded him. But, without following the example of his noble Friend, without pronouncing a strong opinion on either side of a question which by common consent had been put off till another day—without entering at that moment, when they could not be fairly discussed, into charges of a nature which must be deeply felt by the hon. and learned Member—keeping his mind perfectly free and unbiassed on either side—not being either personally or politically the friend of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he did hope, having agreed that the discussion should fully and fairly be taken on Tuesday, it should for the present be allowed to drop. He was sure his noble Friend himself, whose generous feelings he knew so well— [ "Hear, hear" from Mr. Sheil
 Mr. O' Connell  did not desire, being in the hands of the House, to persevere. He was ready to submit to their opinion, whatever it might be. It having been insinuated that there was an impropriety in postponing
 297 "Spoke, Spoke, Chair, Chair." " Spoke, Spoke." "Chair, Chair."
 The Speaker  said, the hon. and learned Member had taken a somewhat irregular course. Either a question of this sort should be thoroughly discussed, or altogether postponed. It was not, perhaps, unnatural for the hon. Member to wish to be heard, but, having already spoken more than once on the subject, and as it was now agreed on all hands that it should be postponed till Tuesday next, the more convenient course would be, not to pursue it further at present.
 Mr. Hume  thought his hon. and learned Friend had been treated unfairly. The noble Lord had, by implication, advanced what appeared to him to be the most unfair charge conceivable against his hon. and learned Friend, namely, that his hon. and learned Friend wished to postpone the consideration of the question. The noble Lord said this, not knowing the rules of the House, and not doing his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Dublin, the justice to recollect what the right hon. Member for Montgomery had said. The right hon. Member for Montgomery said, that to-morrow would be too early to proceed with the inquiry, and suggested that the proper time would be Monday. All that could be alleged against his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Dublin was, that he wished the subject to be brought forward on Tuesday instead of Monday. But what did the noble Lord (Stanley) say? "I know not what may be done in the course of three or four days." Did the noble Lord think that they were all so stupid as not to understand his insinuation? He had no hesitation in declaring what he thought the noble Lord meant to insinuate. The noble Lord intended to imply, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin asked for the postponement of the further consideration of the subject until Tuesday, in order that improper means might be used in the interval to prevent justice being done. No!
 298 Order." Question." Question." 299
 Mr. Sheil  said, that it was really of little consequence whether the debate should take place on Monday or Tuesday next, the only effect would be that the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire; would be under the necessity of postponing, for a few hours longer, that display of generous feeling for which his noble Friend on the Treasury Bench had given him so much credit, but of which he could not help observing, that the noble Friend of the Secretary of War had given a somewhat peculiar specimen. The noble Lord, the Secretary of War, had interposed and stopped the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, who was replying to an assault made on his character, and insinuations worse than any direct imputation. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin certainly was out of order in speaking twice, but he was a party involved, and the Secretary of War might, perhaps, as well have indulged him in a slight departure from the ordinary rules of the House, as have indulged the noble Lord in giving expression to those generous feelings of which his friends on the Treasury Bench were so much better competent to judge than those who, judging merely from the noble Lord's conduct in the House, had arrived at a somewhat different conclusion. The noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, had
 300 No, no?" 301
 Lord John Russell  agreed with the hon. and learned Member that the thing was not worth contending for. He should, however, give his support to the Motion as he deemed some change necessary.
 Mr. Hawes  begged to acknowledge the obligations which the Committee of last year had been under to the noble Lord (Sandon) for the great care and kindness
 312
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  rose to express his approbation of the proposed measures to be introduced by the hon. Member for Brighton; but though he agreed to much of the Report of the Committee of 1833, there were some parts of it which the gallant officer would find more difficulty in accomplishing than perhaps he imagined; and that was, as regarded the interference with the fishing boats of France, which was a subject more fitting for negotiation than legislation.
 Mr. Warburton  was glad the hon. Member had moved for the appointment of a Committee on this subject; and he hoped that, in addition to the opinions that had been expressed by the witnesses who were
 309 310
 Mr. Wigney  rose to support the Motion of his hon. colleague, which he did with the greatest satisfaction, being aware of the grievances that had been stated, and of the acts of aggression that had been committed on the property of his constituents, by the fishermen of France. There was a petition now lying on the Table from the Directors and Guardians of the Borough of Brighton, praying that some steps might be taken to prevent the destruction of the young brood and spawn of fish, which petition both himself and his gallant colleague had supported. Believing this to be a most necessary measure, and trusting that the Government would prevent the encroachments of foreign boats, he should give his support to the Bill, which he was glad to see was so favourably received by the House.
 The Speaker  explained the situation in which he had been placed by the Resolution of last Session. It was his duty to obey the directions of the House, and in the steps he had taken it had been his intention to carry into effect the Resolution of last Session. In order that the experiment might be fairly tried, he had desired that the price put upon printed papers should be as low as possible. As to the inconvenience of sending for papers, that might be easily remedied by appointing a place of sale nearer to the House.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  also rejoiced at the prospect of the introduction of the measure by the gallant officer; but as it did not appear that any mention was made of giving protection to the oyster fisheries, he wished to call the attention of the gallant Member to the many complaints which were made by the fishermen of Chichester, Emsworth, Havant, and even of Guernsey and Jersey,
 Mr. Hume  said, that in consequence of the observations made in reference to the House of Lords, he should beg to withdraw his Motion for the purpose of re-modelling it, and of substituting in its place a Motion to the effect "that a message should be sent to the House of Lords, praying their concurrence in the Resolution of this House that Bills before Parliament should be written in a plain round hand instead of black letter.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that in the warehouses of Parliament were not less than, 2,200,000 different printed papers, and he thought that copies of them ought to be furnished to libraries and public institutions desirous of possessing them. In future the Resolution declared that they should be sold, and the price did not amount to more than a halfpenny or a penny per sheet. Three different offices were to be opened for the sale of printed papers; one was at Mr. Hansard's, another at Mr. Knight's on Ludgate-hill, and a third ought to be in the vicinity of the House.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that all Bills be in future engrossed in plain round hand, instead of black letter.
 Mr. Hume  contended that there ought to be a radical change in the system of management. The way the funds were applied showed that the Board were not sufficiently at leisure to attend to considerations of economy and public utility. Where an individual had six or seven engrossing and important duties to perform it was impossible that he could discharge them all satisfactorily, and it was the duty of those who granted the means of supporting the establishment to arrange measures so that in future there would be nothing for the public to complain of. Looking at the present state of its affairs, he must declare that it was imperative on the Gentlemen connected with that institution to defend themselves, and unless they make a good defence it would be impossible for Parliament to allow them to continue in their present position.
 Mr. Bernal  took the opportunity of requesting the attention of Members to a matter that interested them all; he alluded to the Resolution of last Session regarding Printing Papers and Bills, adopted at the suggestion of the hon. Member for Middlesex, The effect of it had hitherto been, and would in future be, that no Member could obtain more than a single copy of any printed document or Bill without being obliged to pay for it, and often it was necessary for Members to send them to their constituents. Another
 272
 Mr. Estcourt  hoped that the Committee would have the valuable assistance of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Warburton) in the examination which would ensue into the condition of the institution, as one of the first names placed in the list was that of the hon. Member. He would in his place then have every opportunity he could desire of making his communications with practical effect, and it would, perhaps, be better to reserve any discussion on the constitution of the Board till then. He also hoped to have the assistance of the several Members who sat on the Select Committee last year, as their names would also remain on the list if the House had no objection.
 Mr. Estcourt  moved that a select Committee be appointed to inquire into the condition, management, and affairs of the British Museum.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the hon. Member's Resolution were adopted, there would then exist the anomaly of the Bills of one House being written in one way, and those of the other in a manner quite different.
 Mr. Ewart  was of opinion that it would not be enough to allow Members a certain number of copies, and that the printed papers ought to be furnished to all societies wishing to possess them.
 Mr. Ewart  agreed with the hon. Members for Bridport and Middlesex on the necessity of Reform which existed in the management of this great national institution, and change in the constitution of its Board, composed as the latter were of trustees of three kinds—hereditary,  ex-officio, 311
 Sir F. Pollock  said the alteration sought to be made was hardly worth contending for. Bills were not printed in black letter, and why they should continue to be written in that character he could not see. He hoped, however, that the system in use would be replaced by a better one.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  admitted that the law of libel was not in a satisfactory state, and that it required considerable alteration. It was impossible for any one, acquainted with the proceedings of the courts of law upon the subject, not to be impressed with the truth of the remarks which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He, for one, should be happy to contribute whatever was in his power, in the way of suggestion, to the amendment of the present law; at the same time, if the Bill should be introduced with the same amendments as were proposed last
 308
 Captain Pechell  in reply said, although he might be flattered by the supposition that he could manage that most difficult and important question of the oyster fishery, he begged to assure the hon. Member that it was fortunately in the more able hands of the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Bonham Carter), who had bestowed vast attention and great labour on that subject. He, Captain Pechell, did not anticipate any difficulty in carrying through the Bill which he hoped now to have permission to bring in, because he had adopted solely that part of the recommendation of the Committee which related to the preservation of the breeding grounds. The other part relating to the foreign boats he left with his
 305
  Captain Pechell  said, that in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the better protection of the fisheries in England and Wales, he felt it incumbent on him to show the necessity there existed for the measure he proposed, as also to explain the means by which it was intended that the great evil complained of should be remedied; and in so doing, he should hest show his acknowledgment for the kindness with which he was always received by the House by trespassing on its attention as briefly as so important a subject would permit. He would therefore remind the House that owing to the decrease of fish which had been generally complained of in the channel, a Bill was brought in in the year 1819 which was however lost on the third reading; but being renewed in 1822, it passed this House, but was lost in the House of Lords. Ever since that period, continued complaints have been made of the encroachments of the French boats, as well as of their constant aggression on the property of the English fishermen, particularly on the coasts of Kent and Sussex. These foreigners have been in the practice of coining to our shores to obtain the brood of young fish which by the laws of France they were prevented doing on their own side; and as great destruction of the brood and spawn takes place by trawl and ground nets during the breeding season, a Committee was appointed by this House in 1833 to examine into all the grievances of which the fishermen complained; and it was upon the recommendation of that Committee that the Bill he had now the honour to propose was entirely founded. "As far," continued the hon. member, "as regards the preservation of the fish in the bays and shallow waters in certain seasons, that part of the report of the Committee relating to the aggression of the French boats, will I trust be immediately taken up by the government, particularly as these vexations encroachments are of daily occurrence by the boats from Dieppe and Boulogne, which heedless of all remonstrance, drag their
 302 303 304
 The Attorney-General  said that one great evil arising from the present law was this, that the most atrocious libellers were afforded the pretence of complaining that in the present state of the law of libel justice could not be obtained. The most atrocious libellers defended themselves by mixing up their cases with the cases of those against whom some pettifogging attorney had brought the most unfounded actions. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had pointed out two imperfections in the present law, upon which alone he was fully entitled to ask for leave to bring in his Bill. The first was, that any speculative attorney might bring an action merely to put the costs into his own pocket; because (by an absurd distinction made where no real difference existed,) if, in an action brought for a written slander, where no real injury had been sustained, the Jury gave only one farthing damages, that would carry full costs; whereas, if the action were for words spoken and the Jury gave a verdict of one farthing damages, the plaintiff would be entitled to no more costs than damages. Another fault pointed out was, that at present the consideration of the truth in all criminal cases was excluded. He thought the truth ought always to be admitted to be given in evidence, and that it should go to the Jury for them to say whether the publication was  banâ fide
 The Attorney-General  said there was no doubt that the old system was very inconvenient, and that many Members could not read the rolls of Parliament as they were now written. He confessed he was himself sometimes puzzled with that sort of writing, although he had studied it. Indeed, it was known that it had puzzled the printers, themselves, and the printers' devils. In the case of the printing of the late Municipal Corpora-
 306
 The Solicitor General  observed, that whatever other subject of complaint might exist against the Court of Chancery, that Court had enjoyed for above a century and a-half the benefit of having every thing placed on record there in a good plain round hand, and the consequence was that every word was capable of being made out and read distinctly by all persons interested.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  complained, that the rolls from the time of George 2nd were more illegible than those of the five centuries preceding, and he apprehended, that unless some plan were laid down which would be uniformly adhered to, it would be better they should remain as they were.
 Lord Sandon  said, he had heard that great inconvenience resulted from the Parisian system of indiscriminate admittance—that books were constantly lost from the shelves, and nothing was more common than to see books for sale on the stalls in the street marked with the stamp of the Royal Libraries. He had heard no complaint of that kind made of carelessness or loss of property concerning the British Museum, but on the contrary, was happy to find that, with the best arrangements for safety, the public were afforded increased facilities, both for the inspection of the Museum and the library, and that the readers were becoming more numerous every day. He deprecated the discussion which had been thus prematurely started, and which, he felt, would have the effect of prejudicing the question in the eyes of the public. He had every wish that the state of the institution should receive thorough investigation and impartial consideration. The Committee had sat long last year, and he hoped it would sit longer this year, as he anticipated that great advantages would arise, which, however, it would be premature to enter on at present.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that in the few remarks he felt it incumbent on him to urge on the consideration of the House, in support of the Motion of which he had given notice, he desired to be expressly understood that it was not his intention to bring under the consideration of the House any one of the many Railroads for which petitions had been, or were about to be, presented. The sole object of his Motion was to call the attention of hon. Members and the Government to a subject unquestionably of very great importance. At the present time there was no subject of a domestic nature which so largely occupied the public attention as that of Railroads. A greater number of persons was enlisted in. their advocacy or in opposition to them, a larger amount of capital was embarked in their furtherance, a vaster extent of property was involved in their prosecution, than in any one other subject that could claim the attention of the House. He could not, therefore, but believe that hon. Members would be most anxious to listen to any plan calculated to economies expense, and to save the time of the House; for, when they called to mind the fact that the number of petitions which had been already presented for the introduction of Railroad Bills, and when they considered how they were disposed of before
 353 terminus 354 355 l. 356 bona fide
 Mr. William Crawford  said, some of the schemes alluded to had fallen under his observation, and he could speak from experience of the evils and inconveniences likely to arise from the mania for Railroad speculations which now possessed the country. He concurred with the hon. Mover, that it was absolutely requisite to apply some legislative check to these proceedings, which threatened to sacrifice such an amount of private property in the reckless rivalry of public companies, especially in the vicinity of London. The county of Surrey seemed to be especially marked out as a scene of visitation for the execution of such speculative projects, and had actually been mapped and partitioned amongst three principal engineers, in so many distinctshares, for their own profit, and for the delusion of the public. There were now no less than three Railroads planned to Brighton: and could any sensible man expect that they could all succeed, even if the projectors intended to work them? One was called Stephenson's line, conducted along the vale of Wickham and Wimbledon Common, extending circuitously through the most beautiful part of the country, and along the banks of the
 357 l. l. 358
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  thought it was the duty of the House to be exceedingly cautious in the adoption of any restrictive principle of legislation which might have the effect of interfering with the many obvious, admitted, and indisputable benefits, which Railways were calculated to ensure, looking to them either as the means of extending internal commerce, or of facilitating intercourse, which did not hitherto exist, and thus diffusing improvements, and the spirit of industry and enterprise. He was certain that they were beneficial in one very desirable point of view, as affording a means of employment to the labouring classes, and a happy stimulus to the improvement of their condition. Many of the projected undertakings were, he was sorry to say, speculations of a very questionable character, and he doubted whether one step would ever be taken to complete the lines the projectors had adopted, and set forth in their prospective publications. He thought the best way to counteract this species of speculation was, to enact a Clause which should render it imperative on the original promoters of a Railway scheme, to retain their shares and prosecute the work. If shares were not transferable by law, persons would not undertake such works without the intention of carrying them, on, and much stockjobbing mischief would thereby be prevented. Were such a law in existence, we should not see such an enormous, useless, and absurd expenditure of money as was now witnessed on lines of Railroads running side by side, cutting up and disfiguring the country, and evidently constructed without the smallest intention on the part of the original undertakers to
 359
 Sir Robert Peel  could not see the advantage which the supporters of the Resolution expected to derive from it, more than from the system which it was sought to supersede. If it were a necessary consequence that all lines of Railroads struck out were to go on, and that all Bills introduced were to be carried through that House, it would no doubt occasion very dangerous results; but it should be recollected that each Bill presented to Parliament must be scrutinised and substantiated in detail before a Committee, and, if approved, subjected to the further censorship of Parliament, ere the evil consequences could result to the country on which so much stress had been laid, but which, after all, really rested with the whole House to permit or restrain. If the formation of a Select Committee were requisite and beneficial for the district situated within seven miles of London, to save the property it contained from the ruin which Railway projectors were expected to inflict, he saw no reason why Manchester, Birmingham, Liverpool, and all the other threatened towns and districts containing similarly valuable property, should not be granted an equal measure of select Parliamentary protection. If a Select Committee were good and necessary for one case, it might be expected to be good and necessary for all; but this legitimate conclusion was not urged in supporting the Motion. The hon. Gentleman confined his attention to the vicinity of the metropolis, because as it appeared, he expected shortly to see a Railroad drive from Euston-square to the House of Commons! But he did not take into consideration a condition attaching to properly in the metropolis, which would effectually protect it against any disturbance that was not very likely to have a profitable termination—the great value of the houses and land, of which the speculators must purchase possession ere they could commence operations. The inevitable expense of such proceedings in the metropolis would be its best security against uncalled-for intrusions of the kind apprehended, and Gentlemen might rest assured that there
 360 bonâ fide 361
 Mr. Pease  said, that it was his lot to live in a county where Railroads were more numerous and their effects better known and appreciated than in any other, and where, as the result of all this experience, as soon as a project for a new line of Railroad appeared, it was almost universally adopted and approved of. The idea formerly prevalent there, as well as here, that Railroads cut up and disfigured the country, had entirely disappeared, for it was now found that ail the great cuttings and sinkings might, by a little care and expense in ornamental planting of the slopes and edges, be rendered ornamental to the scenery of a district instead of disfiguring it. He was aware from his own experience as a landowner that the ground through which a Railroad passed increased instead of deteriorated in value, notwithstanding the particular portions of which he spoke were intersected by cuttings of great depth; in spite of which some of it recently sold brought a higher price than it did before, or than any land at a distance from the Railway would bring, though adjacent to turnpike roads. All building-materials and minerals lying in lands adjacent to a Railroad were materially increased in value, and in cases where it became necessary to determine the value of such land by a Jury, double the value was frequently given, compared with what would have been awarded by the same Jury, or determined by private bargain, before the establishment of the Railroad. The turnpike roads in the neighbourhood had become perceptibly better, and had reduced their tolls fifty per cent, from the absence of heavy carriages, now transferred to the Railway. With the experience of ten or twelve years, the feeling of the country had considerably increased in favour of Railroads. "Within the last three Sessions especially the question had undergone a searching scrutiny, and been fully canvassed by engineers and the public. He had attended, very closely to the subject himself, and while he had been more thoroughly convinced of the utility which might be derived from the adoption
 362 prima facie
 Mr. Goulburn  was as great an advocate for Railroads generally as any man in that House; but he was disposed, nevertheless, to support the resolution. The approbation of the Committee which the hon. Member who spoke last referred to, was not a case strictly applicable, for a single Railroad case presented to an ordinary Committee could not exercise the comparative view desired in the present case, and which, if they did not enter on the task in a prejudiced manner, would be so beneficial to all concerned. His great anxiety was to avoid having the country parcelled out uselessly and injuriously by rival companies, who would inevitably entail ruin on the mass of those who invested their property in these undertakings.
 363
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  objected to delegating to a body so constituted the great power which it was proposed to vest in the Select Committee. At the same time, he was extremely glad the subject had been agitated, because he considered it one very deserving the attention of the House. He owned that he felt it to be a very difficult one. He should agree in the opinion of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, if, after the projects had been sifted by a Committee up stairs, the House had the means, from their Report, and from accurate testimony of a surveyor on the subject, of judging, and when they came to vote, of fully understanding, the grounds upon which they arrived at their decision. Any hon. Gentleman who had attended to the manner in which Bills of the kind were passed, and to the sort of discussion which took place on their second and third readings, must be aware that the House had not the knowledge necessary to enable them to arrive at a just decision. He had almost invariably avoided voting on such questions, because he found that no sufficient means were afforded him of ascertaining the real state of the case. Then he came to the question, whether the Committees, as they were at present constituted, could properly discuss the merits of the different Railroad projects brought before Parliament? He believed that they could properly and fairly discuss the merits of each individual plan as it was laid before them; but that was not, in reality, the question they had to consider, when so many Railroads were in formation, and likely to come under the consideration of Parliament. It was perfectly true, that different plans for different Railways running to and from the same place might be referred to the same Committee, but the Committee might very probably decide on the first before the others, or either of the others, came under their consideration at all. He did
 364
 Mr. George F. Young  thought the proposal of the hon. Member for Southwark had not been quite fairly treated. He had had several opportunities of witnessing the manner in which the proceedings of Committees on private Bills were conducted, and he was bound to say, that a worse tribunal could not be conceived. He thought it would be a great improvement if every Railway Bill were referred to a Select Committee composed of Gentlemen connected with the locality to which it applied, rather than to a general list, chosen at the commencement of a Session. If such Committees acted on the principles embodied in the Resolution, they would form most efficient tribunals.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it extremely desirable to afford every facility for Railways provided for the transportation of commercial commodities. While it was desirable to guard the public against uncertain and undefined schemes on the one hand, it must be remembered on the other, that a regard for their own capital, and an eye to their own interests, would be their best protection. He concurred
 365
 Mr. Warburton  thought there should be a general survey, and that all Railroads should be stopped until such survey or a Report were sent in, to enable the Committee to Form their opinion. No Member of Parliament concerned in those speculations, or who held shares in them, should sit upon any one of those Committees.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he thought the Government ought not to interfere. The very best check against the danger to be apprehended from these speculations was each individual's own interest. Another protection he thought ought to be, that each subscriber should be a  bonâ fide
 Lord John Russell  expressed his concurrence with an hon. Member opposite, that the best course the House could adopt for the present year would be to refer different plans to a Committee, who should report their opinion to the House. This would afford the House the best means of giving a correct judgment on the subject submitted to their consideration; and it would be also necessary to prevent them from giving their opinion upon merely  ex parte
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord if it were his intention to propose any alteration in the manner of appointing Committees? As a proof of the inconvenience of the present system, he should merely refer to his own case that day, when he found himself appointed
 366
 Colonel Thompson  happened to be a half-pay officer, and if he acted according to his own desire, he should be proud to establish a Reform Association in every
 350 351
 Mr. O'Connell  rejoiced at the extent of the measure, as regarded the marriages of Protestant Dissenters; but he wished to know whether the measure extended to Roman Catholics?
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed his extreme satisfaction at the plan developed by the noble Lord. The relief which it would give Roman Catholics from many of their inconveniences and annoyances was considerable, and the advantage to the State would be no less so. At present, when the law required a twofold ceremony to be gone through in the case of the marriage of a Roman Catholic and a Protestant, many of the poorer Roman Catholics neglected the second ceremony on account principally of the expense, and the consequence was, that in a great many cases this neglect rendering the marriage invalid, parishes were, after a few years, burdened with numbers of illegitimate children.
 Mr. Goulhurn  thought the Bill did not
 385
 Mr. Scarlett  was very much surprised at what had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex. Did he intend to abridge personal liberty by attempting to prevent a man, because he happened to be on half-pay, from belonging to a society which no law of the country had proclaimed to be illegal? "Would the hon. Member for Middlesex, in defiance of all law, commence a bitter persecution against men because they might belong to an institution of which he did not approve, but which the law did not condemn? He trusted the hon. Member would allow others the same liberty he claimed for himself.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that in England and Wales the provisions would extend to Roman Catholics.
 Lord John Russell  thanked the House for the very favourable manner in which it had received his proposed measure. After the broad and liberal principles which were stated last year by the right hon. Baronet on this subject, he had felt assured of his support of the present Bill. With reference to the objection which had been made on the point of one registrar's being insufficient to attend all the marriages of Dissenters within his registry, he (Lord J. Russell) would reply, that he believed there would generally be one registrar to every 5,000 persons, which would be sufficient, the calculation being, that the marriages, in proportion to the population, were less than one per cent. With reference to the facility which would be given to clandestine marriages, he did not think his Bill inferior in this respect to the Bill of the right hon. Baronet.
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of bringing forward a Bill for the general registration of births, marriages, and deaths, and likewise a Bill for the purpose of amending the laws regulating the marriages of Dissenters. At that time of the night he thought it would be most convenient to the House if he
 368 369 370 371 s. d. s. d. l. l. 372 per verbâ de prœsenti 373 few 374 375 376 bona fide 377 378 379 380
 Lord John Russell  did not rise for the purpose of discussing the terms of the resolution. If he did so, he might raise an objection to some parts of it, although he was by no means prepared to say that he should dissent from the whole. But he thought it quite evident, from the state of the House at that moment, that the present was not a convenient opportunity to come to a decision on this Question. It was quite evident that upon a question in which there had been so much inquiry, and upon which opinions were so very strongly opposed on different sides of the House, that if a decisive vote were expected on such a question, there would have been a much more full attendance of Members- And if they were to have an impartial and useful discussion of the Question, he submitted that they ought not to enter into the subject peace-
 344 345
 Mr. Baines  rejoiced to find, from what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite, that the proposed measure was not objectionable in the eyes of members of the Established Church, and he believed, though he spoke only as an individual, that it would be equally acceptable to the Dissenters. Nothing could be more beneficial than a general system of civil registration of births, marriages, and deaths; and he (Mr. Baines) looked upon the present measure, in its general outline, as calculated to effect that desired object. He differed from the right hon. Baronet, who thought that there was no material difference between the Marriage Bill announced this night, and the one brought forward last year, for he thought the noble Lord's measure would obviate a very important objection, which applied to the plan announced by the right hon. Baronet, who drew a distinction between the marriages of Protestant Dissenters and those of members of the Established Church, the former of which were to consist, as far as the law was concerned, in a mere civil compact, while the latter had the sanction and force of a religious obligation. In the Bill of the noble Lord, the members of the Established Church would be married according to their own marriage ceremony; the Protestant Dissenters would
 384
 Mr. Edward Buller  rose to second the Motion. As a Member of the Committee which sat upon the subject of Orange Lodges in the last Session of Parliament, he trusted the House would allow him the opportunity of expressing the opinions he had formed in consequence of the evidence which had come before him in the course of the investigation. On entering upon the subject he was surprised to find that an association formed, as was said, solely for the purpose of self-defence, and for the protection of life and property, should be a strictly exclusive society, If the objects of the Association were only such as were described, why should the respectable Roman Catholics of Ireland be rigidly excluded from it? The fact was, that the views of the Association were solely those of maintaining the Protestant ascendancy, and of rendering permanent the dominion of one particular party in Ireland, Proceeding further with the Inquiry, he found that this Association interfered materially in the administration of justice in criminal cases. He found it furnishing legal advice and aid of counsel in cases where any of its own partisans were concerned, especially in Government prosecutions. He found further that to this society belonged a great majority of the Magistracy of Ireland—of that Magistracy who presided at quarter sessions and by whom the police were appointed: and in the northern part of the kingdom one of the consequences of this combination of partisan Magistrates was, that five-sixths of the police were Protestants. He found, besides, that in the north of Ireland the Sheriffs and under Sheriffs—the officers who summoned and empanelled juries, were members of this Association, and that some of them had avowed their determination never to put a Roman Catholic upon a jury which they should empannel—a determination which, in one instance, at least, had been very religiously adhered to. Surely, then, with tribunals
 343
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  was fully prepared, in common with many friends then in the House, to meet on the instant the statements which the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny bad brought forward with respect to the Orange Lodges of Ireland. He was anxious to meet that statement as speedily as possible, and he was also anxious to take the first opportunity that should present itself of stating the opinion which he entertained with' respect to the construction of the Committee appointed in the last Session of Parliament to conduct the investigation into the nature and character of Orange Societies in Ireland. He was anxious to submit to the House his view of what the conduct of that Committee had been, having been as constant an attendant upon it as the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Finn) himself. He was anxious, also to state his view of the resolution which the Committee had adopted upon the evidence adduced before it. But as his Majesty's Ministers bad expressed a desire that no protracted discussion should take place upon the subject on the present occasion, he was perfectly willing in deference to them and with a view to the advancement of public business (and in that feeling he was borne out by all his friends with whom he had communicated), not to oppose the adjournment of the debate to the day mentioned by the noble Lord
 Mr. Wilks  presented a Petition from Dissenters of Great Marlow, against Church-rates, and stating some circumstances of peculiar and individual hardship.
 Mr. Hume  rose to submit to the House a motion of considerable importance, connected with the dismissal of military officers from the Army. He bad some time ago asked a question of the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, to which the reply was, that his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland was not on full pay, and consequently was not amenable to a court-martial. Now be put it to the House and to the noble Lord the Secretary at War, whether, whenever Parliament granted his Majesty power or authority to make such laws as he might deem necessary to carry into effect the discipline of the Army, there was any class of persons, or any individual, however high he might stand in rank or station, who, whilst enrolled on the list of the army, might presume to defy the orders of his Majesty?
 346 347 348
 Mr. Hume  felt the force of one of the noble Lord's objections—that it would be unnecessary for the purposes of the Motion, to drag forth any individual who had retired into civil life, and whose name and offence were forgotten. But he differed from the noble Lord when he said that it would be cruel to set forth the conduct of such an individual. This was false delicacy. It was not doing justice to the army at large, to refrain from publishing the grounds why any officer had been struck off the list. Indeed, he made this a matter of complaint against the Commander-in-Chief. By the publication others would learn what they themselves had to avoid,
 352
 Mr. Finn  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to propose a Resolution relating to the Orange System in Ireland. His anxious wish to promote the peace and happiness of Ireland, as well as to vindicate the character of the Government, led him to the performance of what he must call a very painful duty. He hoped that he should be able to perform that duty honestly and firmly to his constituents, and temperately and courteously towards those from whom, on this subject, he was obliged to differ. He hoped that the House would extend its patient indulgence towards him whilst he assured it that the system which he now wished to extinguish was that baneful system under which Ireland had been governed during the last forty years. Before he entered into the consideration of the question at large, he would ask leave to vindicate his own character and that of the Committee which had been appointed on his Motion last Session, from the aspersions which had been thrown upon them by a paper, purporting to be a Report emanating from the Grand Orange
 333 " No! no!" 334 335 No! no! 336 337 338 339 "The case of one Saunders Bell has been mentioned to the Committee, do you know any thing about it?—I do. "He is stated to have been in the yeomanry, in your corps?—He was. "What was his character?—He was as quiet and as inoffensive a man as any in the country, and as good a soldier in his way. "Will you state what you know of his case?—It is now twenty-nine years ago; he was, as I said before, a quiet, inoffensive man himself; unfortunately some members of his family were not quite so; there was a quarrel between some of them and one of his neighbours; I believe it was confined" to the females of his family, I do not know that he had a son. As well as I recollect, it arose out of something connected with poultry, or something very triflig; the family with whom the quarrel took place was that of a man named Birmingham. It appears that Birmingham got a summons from a magistrate for some of Bell's family, and went to serve the summons in person. As Bell told me the story, and as he persisted in it to the hour of his death, he was cleaning his bayonet in the kitchen. Birmingham says he took it off the shelf against which he was leaning; at all events, it was a matter of the most sudden and unpremeditated nature; he made a blow at Birmingham with that bayonet, he says, to frighten him, but unfortunately inflicted a very severe wound. Birmingham, of course, lodged information; a warrant was issued against Bell, he fled the country, returned at the end of nearly three years, I think, and he was taken and tried under, I believe, what is called Lord Ellen-borough's Act. The event took place in 1806, he was tried in the summer of 1809, convicted, and executed. "Do you know whether the yeomanry were employed to take Bell?—I know they were. "It has been stated, that Bell could have been taken sooner had the yeomanry wished it, have you any reason to doubt that?—I have this strong reason to doubt it, that the man was out of the country, and out of their reach. "Do you happen to know, of your own knowledge, where he was at any time during that period?—I remember his making his appearance in the town of Tuam, in the county of Galway, where my regiment was quartered at the time; he made an offer of himself as a recruit; he wished to enlist into our regiment, but the surgeon would not pass him. I believe he continued a considerable time in the town of Tuam, and I think when we left it he remained there. "Can you fix the particular period when he was in Tuam?—It was in 1807. "How long did he remain white the regiment was there?—As well as I remember some months." 340 s 341 342
 Colonel Verner  said, although he was neither on full pay or on half-pay, yet as his name stood enrolled amongst those of the gallant defenders of their country, he might be permitted to say a few words. Having been allowed in consideration of his services to his King and country, to retain his rank in the army, and not being aware of having done any thing dishonorable or disgraceful to his Majesty's service, or unbecoming the character of an officer and a gentleman, he thought it would be extremely unjust that his name should now be struck out of the list of the army, in which it had appeared for upwards of thirty years, for having belonged to a society, at the head of which two of his Majesty's brothers were placed.
 Sir Robert Peel  considered this subject to be one of too great importance to make any lengthened observations upon it until he had seen the Bill, There were two great principles to be considered in it. First, the interest which all had in common, Dissenters as well as Churchmen, namely, the preventing clandestine marriages, and the insuring the perfect regularity of the ceremony, so that young persons should not be inveigled into it. The second point was concerning the religious scruples of either party. As a member of the Church of England, he would at once say, that, as far as he understood the Bill of the noble Lord, he had no objection to make to its principle. The noble Lord proposed that members of the Church of England should continue to have their marriages solemnized in their churches; that the religious character of that ceremony should continue to be respected; that there should be required no other obligation whatever for the purpose of giving validity to the contract, than the performance of the religious ceremony. He was speaking of members of the Church of England; in their case, he would repeat, the noble Lord did not pro-
 381 382 383
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that when no point of honour was concerned, he had sanguine hopes that many of the Dissenters, particularly the female portion of them, would prefer being married in Church.
 Sir William Clayton : I support most cordially the prayer of the petition presented by the hon. Member for Boston. The House will, I trust, permit me to occupy their attention for a few moments on this subject, which, in point of fact, is not only interesting to every Dissenter, but to every member of the Established Church. In consequence of the especial directions of the Church authorities, an Act was passed for establishing a new church at Marlow. The trustees for carrying this Act into execution, of which I was one, frequently applied to the Dean and Chapter of Gloucester for pecuniary assistance, to enable them to proceed in the work. After repeated applications, the Dean and Chapter promised a donation of 30 l l. l. l. 332 s. s. d. s, d.
 Viscount Howick  said, as a considerable portion of the remarks of the hon. Member for Middlesex related not so much to the question of granting the returns he had called for, as to that Motion of an. Address of which he had given notice, he (Lord Howick) should defer any remarks he might have to make on that subject until they came to debate it in a regular manner. For the reason already stated by his noble Friend near him (Lord J. Russell), he thought it highly inconvenient that such a discussion should be prematurely entered upon and conducted, as it were, piecemeal. He had no hesitation in agreeing at once with the proposition, that the Crown undoubtedly had the prerogative of striking officers off the list without trial by court-martial, even though upon half-pay, and therefore not liable to be brought to court-martial; nor had he the slightest objection to lay upon the Table the returns required to afford any further clue that might be necessary to the hon. Member for bringing on his subsequent Motion. But he thought there was a very reasonable objection to laying the returns on the Table in the form now proposed. The hon. Member had asked for the names of all the officers struck off the Army List, and the reasons for their being so dismissed. Now, he believed that every hon. Member was aware that this was a power belonging to the Crown, which was rarely, if ever exercised, except in consequence of some highly disgraceful conduct on the part of the individual. He was sure the House would feel that it
 349
 Viscount Howick :—Supposed that the hon. and gallant Officer imagined that from what he had meant to imply, that officers on half-pay had been allowed to exert themselves in establishing Orange Associations in the army, it never entered into his mind to say so. The purport of what he stated was this, that officers on half-pay being considered as civilians, were usually treated as such, and might belong to reform, or any other associations which were not prohibited by law; and that the Commander-in-Chief did not think it necessary to interfere with officers so situated. But, undoubtedly, the order issued by the Commander-in-Chief, in August last, applied to Orange and political societies of every kind established in the army. It would be an act most grossly improper for any officer to assist in supporting any associations of the kind; and most clearly, if an officer, even on half-pay, were to be instrumental in setting such associations on foot in the army, it would bring him within the terms of the order. He was not going into the question, for be the facts as they might, those who were interested in Orange societies denied that they had promoted associations in the army; but most undoubtedly, he must say, to establish such societies in the army, would be, in officers, from the highest to the lowest, an offence of the very gravest nature.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the state of the administration of justice in the Mauritius; and he was sure, after stating the extraordinary circumstances on which he
 391 392 393 onus 394 395 396 397 omni exceptione majores, 398 bonâ fide l, l. 399 1. 400 l. l. l. 401
 Sir George Grey : I can assure the hon. and learned Member and the House, that from the experience which I have had in the Colonial Department, I have not witnessed that apathy which he seems to attribute to the people of this country, with regard to the interests of the British colonies. On the contrary, I have found, and I do not say it in the language of complaint, for I rejoice at it, that there is scarcely a case of abuse, or an alleged offence, committed by any individual in office in our colonies, which does not find its way to the House of Commons; and looking back only to the last Session, I
 402 403 onus His Majesty's Government must at once reject, as altogether inadmissible, all that reasoning in some of the memorials transmitted by you, which point to the conclusion, that negroes illegally imported are to be deemed the property of those who now hold them in slavery, and that every declaration of their freedom might be denounced as a violation of the rights of property. In no sense of the word,
 404 405 Roebuck Roebuck Roebuck 406 407 (Copy). 12th March, 1834. "My dear Stanley,—I have not failed to give every attention to the recent despatches from the Mauritius, which contain the explanations given by Mr. Judge Blackburne and Mr. D'Epinay, of those circumstances connected
 408 en masse, "It was thus that, when the new code and the law upon the press were under review (not at the same moment, as far as I can recollect), the circumstance to which I have referred was never brought into notice; and when the only point which I was considering was the omission of those two important articles, I could not but be struck with astonishment at finding so remarkable an omission, coupled, as it was, in point of time with a state of things in the Mauritius, represented on all hands, officially and privately, as being "at the time," and having been long "previously," little short of actual rebellion against the King's authority. This it was which led to my despatch, and this is the main point upon which the explanation is unquestionably satisfactory. It is, therefore, quite unnecessary for me to advert to some minor points which are not so clearly explained. But I have been unwilling to withhold a prompt statement of my feelings upon this question; and I am the more anxious to express them on account of Mr. Blackburne. In early life I knew him very well, and I am to this day intimate with some of his most valued friends. I know him to be a man of considerable talent and of honourable character; and as I feel that my despatch must have been very distressing to him, I deem it to be my duty to state that that despatch would not have been written, had I the slightest reason to suppose that the facts of the case were such as now appear. "Believe me, &c. (Signed) "GODERICH." 409
 Mr. Jeremie  arrived the first time in the Mauritius in 1832. Owing to the extraordinary proceedings which then took place, and I regret to add, to the want of support from the local authorities, he was compelled to leave the colony. I have great pleasure in expressing my conviction (founded on an attentive perusal of all the documents on the subject) that Mr. Jeremie on that occasion not only displayed great firmness and presence of mind, but that his conduct was wholly unimpeachable. Notwithstanding the menaces with which he was assailed, he absolutely refused to quit the colony, till ordered by the Governor to do so. On his return to this country, he was sent
 410 au secret, 411 "Of the case itself (Fournier's) it is not worth while to speak as indicative of any systematic disaffection. The absurd attempt of some boys to disarm the guard is in itself deserving only of ridicule; the matter derives its only importance from the legal questions and serious dissensions which have resulted from it. I am not satisfied in this case that Mr. Jeremie's proceedings were strictly according to law: but without entering into this discussion, I am satisfied that there was nothing in them which proceeded, or could be suspected to proceed from corrupt or malicious motives; and that you therefore judged correctly in refusing to institute any proceedings against him on that account. I am further of opinion that this decision of your's derives additional value from being taken upon mature deliberation and examination of the facts of the case; and that had you at once rejected the petition, without inquiry into its merits, you would alone have exposed the Government to much misrepresentation, and have placed Mr. Jeremie himself in a very painful and obnoxious position. "I wish I could here have closed my observations on this case; but the correspondence which you have transmitted to me, at the request of Mr. Jeremie himself, renders it necessary for me to express my opinion without reserve. I have already stated, that while I doubt the strict legality of some of Mr. Jeremie's proceedings, I find no ground for imputing to him improper motives, and that I concur, therefore, in the view which you have taken of his exculpation by his letter of the 17th of August. But I am bound also to express my strong sense of the impropriety of tone and language, as addressed to yourself through your Colonial Secretary, which pervades the whole of that, and I regret to add, of Mr. Jeremie's other communications. They are marked by a forgetfulness of your and his relative positions, and by a tone of acrimony which, whatever provocation he may have received, unfortunately prove him, notwithstanding his acknowledged abilities, firmness, and vigour, wholly unfit for the peculiarly delicate position in which circumstances have placed him. Of your communication, in answer to this most improper letter, I will only
 412 "It is with pain I add, that the vehemence of the tone and the intemperance of the suggestions of Mr. Jeremie on this subject, afford an additional ground for fearing—with every respect for his acknowledged talents—with every desire to support his fair pretensions— with every allowance for the great difficulties by which he has been surrounded—that he is not possessed of that temper and judgment which are so peculiarly necessary to render his services in the Mauritius beneficial to the public interests. The King's authority was vindicated by his restoration: he was received with the submission due to the Sovereign. I cannot help expressing a fear that, since his return, he has, in too many instances, suffered his feelings, as a man, to interfere with the deliberate exercise of his duty, as a servant of the Crown, and to seek for personal triumph, when the object was the restoration of the judicial and executive authority." 413 414 415 "to signify to Mr. Jeremie, that, with whatever regret his Majesty might regard the loss of so much ability and zeal as that gentleman undoubtedly possessed, he deemed even those qualities to be more than counterbalanced by the extreme want of judgment and temper which he (Mr. Jeremie) had exhibited, and that his Majesty was therefore compelled to relieve him from his present official duties." 416 "manifest in this new appointment the renewed confidence of his Majesty, in the loyalty and attachment of his subjects of the Mauritius, and to forget any temporary errors into which they had been led by temporary causes." "That in the selection of an individual for the Bar of the Colony, to be the legal adviser of the governor, and a member of the Executive Council, his Majesty will dispel any ill-founded distrust of their intentions, which may be felt by the inhabitants of the colony in consequence of the events of 1832." 417 418 419 l. 420
 Dr. Lushington  said, that his entering into the present discussion was not of his own seeking; but having been called on by the hon. and learned Gentleman to bear testimony to the truth of some statements the hon. Member had put forward in his speech, he felt himself bound injustice to say, that some of them were borne out by the facts. Nor did he see that those facts had been contradicted by his hon. Friend who had just sat down. The first and the great question for the House to consider was, whether the administration of justice in the Mauritius was likely to be benefited by the appointment of the Committee now moved for; and he really must say, without wishing to trouble the House by entering into a detail of the circumstances of the case, that proof of the most positive kind had been afforded that, since the year 1810, there had been a series of continual violations of the law of the most flagrant description, all or the greater part of which had been allowed to go unpunished, and almost unnoticed. It was sufficient, perhaps, to remind the House, that they had been told by a Chief Justice of the island himself, that he believed not a Jury could be found to give an impartial decision on certain cases brought before them. If these were matters which had taken place many years back—if the occurrence of them had not within a comparatively short period disgraced the dignity of justice in the colony, he (Dr. Lushington) would be one of the first to call for their being consigned to an everlasting oblivion; but when the fact was, that during the last four years offences had become multiplied, and there was still no energetic intervention of the civil authority, when the fact was, that we were taunted by France for having been the first to allow the violation of those stipulations with respect to slaves which we had been the first to call for and insist upon—when facts like these were forced on his attention, he could not forbear from admitting the necessity for their being inquired into. Had not his hon.
 421 422 423 424 425
 Sir George Grey , in explanation, said, that although the Colonial Office had not acted on the information sent to that department by the hon. and learned Gentleman, because it was derived from a private source, they had nevertheless used it as a means for the purpose of inquiry.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, the hon. Secretary promised that the abases of which complaint had been made should not continue; but he never knew a case in which similar promises were not made when a Committee of Inquiry was asked for and refused. They wanted a Committee to inquire, not into what was about to happen, but what had really occurred. The only charge against Mr. Jeremie was want of temper; and in his opinion much allowance ought to be made for that Gentleman, considering the peculiar circumstances in which he was placed. Mr. Justice Blackburne and other persons, against whom charges were made in Earl Ripon's dispatch amounting to treason, were allowed to remain a-year and a-half without further proceedings; but Mr. Reddie, because he wrote an intemperate letter to the Governor, was immediately dismissed. The Government was not well informed as to what was passing in the Mauritius; he thought it very objectionable that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets should receive information two or three weeks before the right hon. Secretary of what had transpired in that colony. The ground of complaint was not only the removal of honest and good Magistrates, but that they had been replaced by others of a different character.
 Mr. Borthwick  hoped, owing to the peculiar situation in which he stood, that
 426
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  felt much gratification in supporting the present Motion. His hon. Friend had been charged with having spirited away Mr. Jeremie, but those who made that charge did not understand the Motion. With respect to soma of these transactions, he felt bound to say-that nothing could be more fair, more kind, or more honourable than the conduct of his Majesty's Government. Agreeing with his hon. Friend on some points he differed with him on others. If the animosities at present existing were to be allayed by any proceedings on their part, those animosities could only be allayed, and tranquillity could only be established, by the enforcement of justice. This would most effectually be done by an investigation on the part of the House into all these transactions. He had no disposition to enter then into any discussion on the subject of the slave trade.
 427 428
 Dr. Lushington  was clearly of opinion that the practice of individuals obtaining private Acts in questions of divorce was most injurious; and though he did not go the length of believing that in the majority of cases collusion existed, he thought the existing system one which ought to undergo an entire revision. As soon as time and opportunity permitted, the whole question of divorce ought to be referred to some competent jurisdiction, whether to that which had at present cognizance of matrimonial matters, or to some other body, he did not say, but he was decidedly of opinion that the practice of obtaining Private Acts of Parliament ought to be abolished. He said this, because under the present system they were matters of private canvass or mutual agreement, and because Parliament was not the fittest tribunal to pronounce an opinion on questions of this description. With respect to his hon. Friend's Motion, if new Divorce Bills were to be introduced, and if no attempt was made to alter the present mode of proceeding, he agreed with his hon. Friend in preferring an examination before a Select Committee to an examination of evidence at the Bar. In reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Member for Tarn worth on the subject of publicity, he assured the right hon. Baronet that this House was never considered as a safeguard against collusion.
 388 vinculo
 Mr. O'Connell  was exceedingly glad to hear that expression of the noble Lord,
 431
 Colonel Bruen  said, that he would not oppose the reception of the Petition. The hon. Member was quite correct in expressing the opinion that he (Colonel Bruen) and his friends were anxious to have the most minute inquiry made into all the circumstances connected with the case of the Carlow election. He did not dread the consequences of any advantages which might be gained against him by the present, action of this petition, though he must complain of the somewhat uncourteous manner in which he, a party implicated, had been treated on the present occasion, He had never seen the petition till seven o'clock that evening, and. from what he had heard of it, as it was read by the clerk at the Table, he should say, that if the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard took upon him to have it printed, he would be lending his hand to the circulation of calumny. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had been treated more courteously the other night in respect to the petition which had been presented from the electors of Carlow; he had had time to prepare his defence against it before it was brought before the House. He, however, would not enter upon the subject of the petition now, but
 438
 Mr. Henry Thomas  Hope wished to call the attention of the House to the situation of a noble relative of his, referred to in the petition, who did not at this moment know of its presentation. As he only heard of it at nine o'clock that evening, that noble person could not, of course, be aware of the petition, which would be before the public prior to his being able to make himself even acquainted with the allegations contained in it, much less to bring forward proof that the statements contained in it could not be substantiated. He would not, as the hon. Member for Carlow had avoided doing so, enter into the subject of the petition; but he thought it was not right or fair to let such a petition be laid upon the Table, and its allegations sent before the public, without stating that his noble relative was anxious for inquiry, and that, in his opinion, the course pursued by the hon. Member was somewhat unfair in bringing this petition before the House without intimation to the parties who were attacked in a manner so painful to their feelings, and who would not be aware of the petition before an impression was made on the public to their prejudice.
 Lord John Russell  said, that if he did not feel disposed to agree to the Resolution of the hon. Member for Truro, it was partly on the ground that so momentous a subject ought not to be disposed of in this manner, and partly because he did not think the present an appropriate remedy but he did not oppose the Resolution, because he was of opinion that the present mode of passing Divorce Bills was satisfactory. According to the present method of obtaining divorces it required the possession of considerable wealth to procure an Act of Parliament;—divorces were carried, and the investigation at the Bar was a mere form and mockery. However, the present mode of proceeding diminished the facilities of obtaining divorces, which was one of its advantages, and sanctioned the opinion that they ought not to be lightly granted. As to the proposition for referring divorces to a special tribunal and a jurisdiction created for the purpose, he would not enter upon it now; but in reference to the plan before the House, he thought that a more satisfactory one might have been suggested. This mode erected a special tribunal, but unfortunately did not qualify it for the jurisdiction assigned it. There was no security that those nine individuals would be persons in whose hands it would be proper to place great judicial powers; and when the hon. Gentleman said, that three should be a quorum, he thought the matter still worse. If a stated tribunal of one or three individuals were appointed to act as Judges in divorce, no one would canvass them; but when a Committee of nine was appointed three of whom might act, nobody would look at it in the same light, as a judicial tribunal, and persons would not think themselves debarred from soliciting its members, so that you would give this Committee the enormous power of Judges, without investing its members with the sacred character which Judges
 389
 Mr. Charles Buller  wished to clear himself from the charge of discourtesy which the hon. and gallant Member had brought against him (Mr. C. Buller). He only got the petition that evening: it had been put into his hand at six o'clock, and he immediately stated the circumstance to the hon. and gallant Member for Carlow on his coming into the House.
 Mr. Charles Buller  rose to present a Petition from Mr. Vigors which contained statements relative to the allegations in the petitions from Bath and Carlow, which complained of that gentleman having acted in illegal concert with Mr. O'Connell as regarded certain transactions connected with the late contested election for the county of Carlow. The petition prayed for the fullest inquiry into every circumstance connected with that transaction. As the petition had been put into his (Mr. Buller's) band only at six o'clock that evening, and as it inculpated the landlords of Carlow, and also an hon. Member of that House, he should not enter into particulars; and as it related to a question which would come under the consideration of the House to-morrow, he should content himself by moving that the petition be printed, and put into circulation amongst hon. Members. It certainly would not be proper to make statements calculated to prejudice individuals until such time as those individuals should be prepared with answers. He should, therefore, content himself with briefly stating the facts. [The hon. Member proceeded to read an outline of the petition, which, on account of the interest attached to it, we subjoin in full.] He had now only to add, that it was his intention to move hereafter that this peti-
 433 " To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in Parliament assembled— "The humble petition of Nicholas Aylward Vigors, of Chester-terrace, Regent's-park, in the county of Middlesex, and of Old Leighlin, in the county of Carlow— "Sheweth—That your petitioner is informed that petitions have been presented to your honourable House by certain Electors of the county of Carlow, and by certain Inhabitants of Bath, complaining of an alleged illegal, unconstitutional, and corrupt conduct of your Petitioner, in concert with Daniel O'Connell, esq. (a Member of your honourable House), and Alexander Raphael, and other individuals, and praying that your honourable House will be pleased to inquire strictly into the circumstances thereof, and to bring to punishment all persons whom your honourable House may, on inquiry, deem guilty of illegal or unconstitutional acts. "That your petitioner has read the copies of such petitions in the printed Votes of your honourable House. "That your petitioner respectfully denies the truth of the charges and imputations conveyed in these petitions, alleging illegal and unconstitutional conduct, both as respects himself and the said Daniel O'Connell and the Independent Electors of the county of Carlow. "That the money transactions alluded to in the said petitions were, as your petitioner avers, and is advised, strictly legal, constitutional, and honourable; that the great majority of your honourable House is accustomed to make similar money arrangements in respect to their seats in the Commons' House of Parliament. "That the said Daniel O'Connell, esq., at the request of Alexander Raphael, and with the consent of your petitioner, was the individual with whom the monies referred to were lodged by mutual consent; that the said Daniel O'Connell duly and honourably accounted for such monies with your petitioner, in no ways interfering with the appropriation thereof— that no part of such monies was illegally or unconstitutionally expended, and that your petitioner was not, directly or indirectly, concerned by himself or his agents or partisans in any malpractices whatever in relation to the
 434 "That your petitioner and his family are extensive Protestant landed proprietors in the counties of Carlow, Queen's County, and Wexford, and that your petitioner represented the county town of Carlow in Parliament in 1832, 1833, and 1834. "That your petitioner, on the dissolution of Parliament, in December, 1834, was an unsuccessful candidate for the borough of Carlow; but in June last your petitioner, on the unseating of Messrs. Bruen and Kavanagh, was called upon by the leading Reformers of the county to become a candidate for the representation of that county, and your petitioner thereupon was a candidate, and was returned by a majority of fifty-seven votes. "That Alexander Raphael was returned at the same contest, in conjunction with your petitioner, by a majority of fifty-six votes. "That the said Henry Bruen and Thomas Kavanagh were the candidates on the Tory, or "Conservative," interest, opposed to your petitioner and the said Alexander Raphael. "That the said Henry Bruen and Thomas Kavanagh, on a petition of Carlow County electors against the return of your petitioner and the said Alexander Raphael, were declared by a Committee of your honourable House the Members for the said county, in lieu of your petitioner and the said Alexander Raphael. "That your petitioner, by himself and his agents, is anxious to be rigidly examined at the Bar of your honourable House, or by a Select Committee, on all matters without reserve relating to all his said election matters, and without limitation as to time or circumstance. "That your petitioner is anxious and willing to produce to your honourable House all accounts, papers, documents, vouchers, and any other matters or things whatsoever, without reserve, directly or indirectly relating to elections or election committees of the county of Carlow, and directly or indirectly relating to the matters in the said petitions, reflecting on the personal or political conduct of your petitioner or other parties. "That your petitioner humbly and respectfully represents to your honourable House that your honourable House cannot fully or impartially investigate the merits of the said petitions without a full and strict investigation into all the peculiar circumstances of the Car-low election contests in the years 1832 and 1835. "That the circumstances and facts connected with such elections will disclose a system of unexampled Tory persecution of the electors, and of conspiracy against the freedom and purity of election, without parallel in the records of election fraud and oppression, and circumstances immediately bearing on the merits of the said petitions. "That the evidence before the Carlow Elec-
 435 "That your petitioner begs leave to refer your honourable House to that evidence, and to the remarkable testimony of the Reverend James Maher, of the borough of Carlow, before the Select Committee of your honourable House, appointed in the last Session of Parliament, 'to consider the most effectual means of preventing Bribery, Corruption, and Intimidation in the election of Members to serve in Parliament.' Your petitioner humbly averring that the said Reverend James Maher is a gentleman of indisputable integrity, education, intelligence, and local knowledge of Carlow county. "That during and subsequently to the last three contested elections for the representation of the county of Carlow, viz. in December, 1832, and in January and June, 1835, the most scandalous corruption and inhuman intimidation on the part of the Tory-landlords and of a Peer of Parliament have prevailed in the said county against honest and independent but poor electors; that during the last few years thousands of the Catholic tenantry and ancient resident labouring families by political party spirit and religious persecution have been expelled from their residences and lands, and Protestants substituted in their place; that hundreds of widows and orphans have been included in this wicked and unchristian proscription and persecution; that, by the fear of similar persecutions, numbers of the electors have been coerced to give their votes for the Tory candidates, who would have otherwise notoriously supported the Reform candidates; that persecution, by the cost and terror of distraints for rent and other legal processes, has been extensively resorted to for political and party purposes, and that appalling misery, dissension, heartburnings, and all sorts of crime, have been, and still are, the unhappy consequences of these illegal, unconstitutional, and wicked proceedings. "That to inform your honourable House of the extent of these dreadful oppressions, partly perpetrated for political and election purposes, your petitioner inserts the following account of expelled and substituted families in parts of the said county of Carlow—a public account never yet contradicted, as acts, though the motives have been questioned; viz.— 'In one parish, the parish of Dunleckney, there have been ejected within the last few years, by three or four landlords, 178 families, amounting to 992 individuals, including 224 widows and orphans—namely, 'From the townlands of Ballinkilten, the property of Viscount Beresford, where the system first commenced, there were evicted at once 39 families, amounting to 205 individuals, including 56 widows and orphans. 'From Ballyknocken, the property of the same noble Viscount, 7 families, amounting to
 436 'From Slyguff, the properly of the same., 9 families, amounting to 64 individuals, including 13 widows and orphans, 'From Clowater, by the same, 6 families, amounting to 29 individuals. 'From Clonegath, by the same, 25 families, amounting to 151 individuals, including 30 widows and orphans. 'Making a total of 86 families, amounting to 492 individuals, including 112 widows and orphans. 'From that part of Colonel Bruen's estate, which is situated in this parish, the following number of families were expelled:— 'From the townland of Ballyloughan 13 families, containing 63 individuals, including 8 widows and orphans. 'Ballytarsna, 19 families, containing 101 individuals, including 21 widows and orphans. 'Knockthomas, 11 families, containing 53 individuals, including 13 widows and orphans. 'Bohermore, 7 families, containing 45 individuals, including 14 widows and orphans. 'Kildrina, 4 families, containing 23 individuals, including 6 widows and orphans. 'Nurney, 5 families, containing 30 individuals. 'Oldtown, 2 families, containing 9 individuals, including widow and orphans. 'Ballyteglea, 1 family, containing 7 individuals, widow and orphans. 'Knockullard, 4 families, containing 18 individuals, including 8 widows and orphans. 'Making a total of 66 families, containing 348 individuals, including 82 widows and orphans. 'One of these townlands was not in the possession of Colonel Bruen at the time the tenantry were ejected. 'From the townland of Ballywilliamroe, the property of Colonel Latouche, Mr. Butler, agent, 16 families, containing 98 individuals, including 17 widows and orphans. 'Dunroe, the property of Messrs. Newton, 8 families, containing 44 individuals, including widows and orphans. 'Kilcarrig and Dunleckney, belonging to the same, 2 families, containing 10 individuals, including 2 orphans and widow. 'Making a total of 10 families, containing 54 individuals, including 3 widows and orphans. 'Amounting, in all, to no less than 178 families, containing 992 individuals, including 224 widows and orphans. 'Besides those already evicted, notices to quit in a few months have been served by the same landlords upon the following number of families, viz. 'In the townland of Slyguff, the property of Viscount Beresford, 15 families, amounting to 94 individuals, including 23 widows and orphans. 'In Shaughanrane, the property of Colonel Bruen, 23 families, amounting to 123 individuals, including 33 widows and orphans. 437 'In Knockullard, by Colonel Bruen, 2 families, amounting to 11 persons, including 5 widows and orphans— 'Making a total of 25 families, amounting to 135 individuals, including 41 widows and orphans. 'In Kilcarrig, the property of the Messrs. Newton, 31 families, amounting to 163 individuals, including 28 widows and orphans. 'Making a total of 71 families, amounting to 391 individuals, including 82 widows and orphans. 'These families, added to those already ejected, make in all 249 families, amounting to 1383 individuals, including 316 widows and orphans.' "That your honourable House, fully to do justice to your petitioner, to the Carlow electors, to Daniel O'Connell, Esq., and to the several petitioners, and all parties concerned, cannot, in the respectful opinion of your petitioner, decide on the merits of the said petitions without a full and unrestricted inquiry into all the above facts and circumstances. "Your petitioner, therefore, humbly prays that your honourable House will be pleased to institute such a full and strict inquiry, and that your petitioner may be examined with all necessary agents, parties, and witnesses, in the matters of the said petition, and concerning the said elections and matters in the county of Carlow; and that your petitioner may be heard by himself, counsel, or agents. "And your petitioner will ever pray, &c. NICHOLAS AYLWARD VIGORS."
 Mr. Divett  thought that the time had arrived when some change should be made in the existing system, which did not conduce to morality and encouraged collusion, He would not now enter upon a discussion of the question, but he gave notice, that when the next Divorce Bill came before them he should take the sense of the House on the subject, with a view to an alteration in the present mode of proceeding.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, as he had the same object in, view as his Majesty's Government, to conciliate all parties, and as he did not wish to interfere with existing negotiations, he should not press his Motion; but he hoped the House would allow him to say a word or two with regard to the present state of Canada. The hon. Baronet said, that the Assembly had done much, as far as they had yet gone, to allay the differences between Canada and the Government. He was
 390
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that as he believed, the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had not made up his mind on the subject of the production of the instructions given to Lord Gosford, and the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the grievances complained of in Lower Canada, he was willing to postpone his Motion for the present.
 Mr. Hume  felt anxious to draw the attention of the House to the state of the laws respecting the Assessed Taxes. The number of surcharges was quite incredible at the present moment. As there were now fifty-two Acts relating to the assessed taxes, it was the duty of Government to consolidate them, in order that every individual, by knowing what the law was, might know at once what he was bound to do, and what he was bound to pay. The litigation produced by these numerous Acts was very great and most vexatious, as it generally cost ten times the amount in legal expenses of the sum disputed. He contended that some means should be taken to lessen the annoyance experienced by individuals, and that an end should be put to the practice of paying the collectors out of the surcharges which they levied upon ignorant individuals. There was a necessity that the law on this subject should be clearly determined and ascertained. Its Amendment also was loudly called for. The hon. Member concluded by moving for a return of surcharges made for assessed taxes of each class, the number affirmed, and she number discharged, and also for the dates and number of Acts of Parliament in force for the levying of assessed taxes.
 Mr. Hume  put it to his hon. Friend whether he would take this important step without the concurrence of a law Officer or Minister of the Crown?
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill for the relief and employment of the poor of Ireland. He did not intend to go into the general question. He was happy to perceive the almost unanimous opinion that seemed to prevail as to the necessity of the introduction of some Poor Law for Ireland. He was gratified that an authorised inquiry into the condition of the poor of that country had taken place. He had never doubted what the result of such an inquiry would be. Statements of the most heart-rending character, as to the distress that prevailed amongst the poorer classes in Ireland, were contained in the Report of the Commissioners which had been laid upon the Table of the House. He would very briefly state the heads of the Measure he wished to introduce. He did not wish to interfere with
 430
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted that the state of the law with regard to the subject was very defective, and open to serious objections. He felt it his duty to direct his attention towards it, and had given notice of a measure for the consolidation of the taxes, which, if he
 432
 Mr. Tooke , after the declaration of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell),although he apprehended the reform of the law might come rather late, would, with the permission of the House, withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Tooke  said, he had been in communication with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the noble Secretary for the Home Department, and the former had intimated his opinion, that, although a better remedy might be hereafter devised, this plan was a great improvement on the present system. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets approved
 387
 Mr. Tooke  rose to move a Resolution for referring Divorce Bills to a Select Committee, empowered to hear Counsel, examine witnesses, and verify documentary evidence. His wish
 386
 Sir G. Grey  had fully made up his mind on the subject, and was prepared to state his views to the House in a few words. Means had been taken to settle the differences subsisting between this country and Canada, and he trusted with every prospect of success. But great inconvenience might result from the production of those instructions while the Commissioners were still engaged in an investigation of the alleged grievances of Canada, and inquiring into their reality and extent. On this ground alone he objected to the Motion. He was happy to say, that a great deal had already been done to allay the differences between this country and Canada.
 Sir Robert Peel  recommended the hon. Gentleman to consent to a postponement of his Motion, and suggested the importance of considering whether the prospect, or at least the possibility, of publicity under the present system did not constitute a material check upon collusion and an evasion of the law, He thought that time should be allowed, for deliberation before proceeding with the Motion.
 Viscount Morpeth  was understood to say, that he had no objection to the Motion of his hon. Friend, and he thought, as there were so many Bills on this subject, it would be well that the House should have the opportunity of considering them. In reply to the question of his hon. Friend he was happy to assure him that the Government were in daily expectation of receiving the final Report of the Poor Law Commissioners, and they hoped to be able to offer to the House a practical measure on this subject in the course of the present Session.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that was exactly the question. Here were 20,000 signatures on the one hand—to be sure they were those of the rabble, according to the hon. Member for Warwickshire—a familiar name for Englishmen at present. On the other hand was the protest of the hon. Gentleman; among the 2,000 signatures to which, the hon. Member candidly admitted that there were some mistakes, which he had scratched out. Mistakes meant forgeries. Here were 20,000 signatures attached to a petition when nobody was by, and this happened, not in Potatoshire, but at Birmingham. The people ought not to be treated with ridicule such as the hon. Member had employed. Perhaps they asked for what the hon. Gentleman thought was unreasonable—a change in the House of Lords; but Englishmen had a right to ask for any organic change that
 444
 Mr. O'Connell : my first observation is, that I think the resolution just moved by the hon. Gentleman an extremely paltry one; it does not sufficiently extend the inquiry it challenges and demands. With that observation I leave the case in the first instance. My next observation is directed to that part of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech, the commencement of it, in which he introduced the correspondence that took place between him and me previous to his motion on Thursday last. The hon. and learned Gentleman prefaced his remarks upon that point, by stating that I had been furnished with a copy of the petition, before the petition itself bad been placed in his hands. That is a fact I utterly deny. I utterly deny the truth of that statement. And yet the hon. and learned Gentleman stated it as a fact, and was cheered by four-fifths of the hon. Gentlemen who sit on that side of the House. This I suppose was a specimen of the impartiality with which the circumstances of the case are to be heard, and the determination of the House expressed. But I am not surprised that they should not be impartial, and I believe they have not the hypocrisy to assert that they are. Yet when I heard the cheer of the party opposite, it put me in mind of a circumstance which was described to me by the present Chief Justice of Ireland—Chief Justice Bush. After the rebellion of 1798 (I had the statement from his own lips), when the amnesty had been passed, granting pardon for all crimes committed during the rebellion, murder alone excepted, he (Chief Justice Bush), being at that time at the bar, was engaged as counsel for a prisoner at Wexford. This man was tried upon an indictment for murdering a yeoman, named James White, and two witnesses appeared upon the table to support the prosecution. The case was tried before Baron Michael Smith, the father of the present Baron Smith. Well, two witnesses appeared upon the table to prove what certainly was the fact, that the prisoner had been engaged, in the rebellion, and they, moreover,
 458 l 459 l l l Hon. Member: l l 460 It was intimated that Lord Stanley was present. 461 462 otium cum dignitate 463 464 465 466 467 468 469 470 471 Baines: The Leeds Mercury. 472 call of question by Mr. Scarlett 473 l The Standard, The Times, 474 Ministerial cheers. oh!
 Sir George Clerk  said, that in a case of that kind he naturally desired, as any one so connected with it must, to make the selection of persons as impartial as possible.
 493 494
 Mr. John Stanley  observed, that when t was found that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth could not serve on the Committee, it was arranged that no Member of a corresponding station on the Ministerial side of the House should be one of its Members. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets was then proposed, but he was objected to on the ground of his being a judicial person, and his name was therefore struck out, and another Gentleman on the other side was also struck out for the same reason. He had himself no objection to the list as submitted to the House. The only question was, whether there were to be nominees? The Committee itself was to be constituted with these provisions, that the Members should be taken from both sides of the House, that no Member for Ireland should sit upon it, and that it should not contain, any Member of the present or the late Administration,
 Mr. O'Connell , I am sorry I have given the hon. Gentleman so much uneasiness. I am sincerely sorry I mistook him. However, I did not mistake him in calling "Question" a while ago. Well, Sir, I have stated that part of the case that relates to pecuniary corruption. Now I beg to remind the House, that at the period in which the question arose as to the amount to be given by Mr. Raphael towards the expenses, counsel were retained by the rejected members for another petition. And here I have to complain of the hon. and learned Member for Bradford, who, in putting this case of
 475 that l l 476 l l might might l 477 l., l l 478 l 479 Hear, hear!" from Mr. Hardy l l l l l l 480 l 481 482 483
 Mr. John Stanley  observed that the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that it was a departure from the usual course to appoint nominees in such a case as the present. In this case it was clearly understood between the parties when the list of the Committee was agreed to, that a nominee should be appointed on each side, and this was considered a material point. It was desirable to keep the members of the Committee as much as possible from any thing like violent heats, or to excite any feelings calculated to prevent them forming a cool judgment, and certainly this was not likely to be the case if the Members had to cross-examine the witnesses at great length.
 Mr. Scarlett  observed, it had been fully admitted that a sum of 2,000 l 490
 Mr. Scarlett : Mr. Speaker—[ order! chair, chair
 Mr. Scarlett , Sir, I beg to say that I did not—[ order, order, chair, chair.
 Mr. Scarlett , I rise to order Sir, It was, however, my intention, to preface what I had to say, by declaring that I did not give any groan nor any exclamation at all. [ order! chair!
 Mr. Scarlett , I assure you, Sir [ order! chair. chair, order, order!
 Mr. Scarlett  said, it had always been the practice of those persons who were discontented with the institutions of their country to collect together meetings of the working classes of society, who had not time to devote their attention to political considerations, and who were therefore easily deluded, and to endeavour to persuade them that they were ill governed, with a view to induce them to support or-
 445
 Lord John Russell  was extremely anxious that some arrangement should take place, or that the Committee could be
 495
 Mr. Robinson  objected to the appointment of nominees. He did not see on what principle the House could consent to such a proposition. When a fair Committee was appointed, and the requisite information was furnished to enable them to form a correct judgment, he did not see the necessity for nominees. He objected to it also as it was a departure from the course pursued in similar case?
 Mr. Warburton  wished to state some of the circumstances connected with the selection of names which had now been submitted to the consideration of the House. It was perfectly true that arrangements made out of the House were not always binding within doors, but he thought the present was an occasion in which every honourable man would feel himself bound by what had occurred out of doors. Himself, the hon. Member for Cheshire, the hon. Member for Monmouthshire, and the hon.
 492
 Mr. Warburton  proposed that a nominee should be appointed on each side. He might be necessary in the cross-examinations of witnesses to press questions with great severity, and that could be much better done by nominees than by members of this Committee. If this were not done, some of the members of the Committee might be heated by the nature of the cross-examinations that might be pursued by other members. If the hon. Member or the hon. Baronet was prepared to name a Gentleman as a nominee, he (Mr. Warburton) would also do so on the part of Mr. O'Connell.
 Mr. Warburton  objected to the name of Mr. Barneby being on the list. He entertained no personal objection to that hon. Gentleman, but he did not think that he had sufficient standing in the House to carry a proper degree of weight. There had been a departure from the original agreement, according to which the name of Dr. Lushington was on the list; but that had since been removed, as well as that of Mr. Wilson Patten. He (Mr. Warburton) should propose that either Lord Clive or Mr. Wilson Patten be placed on the Committee, instead of the hon. Member for Droitwich (Mr. Barneby).
 Mr. Warburton  said, he meant by his amendment that the Committee should extend their inquiry to the actual application of the sum in question. If, for example, it appeared that it was given to such or such a family for such a purpose, then, without going into the whole state of the county of Callow at or before the election, a few questions more would show whether or not the money had been fairly applied.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to move a few words by way of amendment. He did not consider that the resolution went by any means far enough. It did not allow the hon. and learned Member for Dublin an opportunity of giving that complete refutation to the charges there preferred against him which be (Mr. Warburton) entertained no doubt he was in a condition to offer. The resolution was too narrow in its scope to allow the introduction of evidence to show the manner in which the money had been expended. He should therefore move the addition of the following words to the resolution as it already stood—"and the application of the money said to have been received, together with the circumstances under which it was received and expended."
 The Speaker  then read the names of Sir Frederick Pollock and Mr. Sergeant Wilde, who were appointed nominees.
 The Speaker , Mr. O'Connell.
 The Speaker , The hon. Member is quite aware that he cannot rise for the purpose of making any observation.
 The Speaker , Does the hon. Member rise to order? I think he is speaking merely because he considers himself to have been personally alluded to. If so, he will have an opportunity to make his observations when the hon. and learned Member has sat down.
 The Speaker : If the hon. and learned Gentleman has any observations to make, he will have the opportunity for making them when the hon. and learned Member for Dublin sits down.
 Mr. Hardy  spoke to the following effect:—Whether the risibility of hon. Gentlemen has been excited by the reading of this order I know not; but of this I am convinced, that the case which I am about to lay before the House for its consideration comes within the principle, if not the very words of that order. And, Sir, it is a matter of great relief to my mind that this matter comes before the House at a time and under circumstances fixed upon by the hon. and learned Member himself, who is most interested in the result of the proceeding. I am rejoiced
 446 447 laughter, and cries of "Hear, hear. 448 l 9, Clarges-street, May 29, 1835. "MY DEAR SIR.—I remained at home, at some inconvenience, until after the hour I mentioned. I was sorry I did not remain longer, as you called shortly after; but. as you left no letter or other indication of acceding to my proposal, I take for granted that you decline my offer—be it so. I only add my belief that you will never again meet so safe a speculation. I am quite sure I never shall hear of one. "I have the honour to be, my dear Sir, "Your very faithful "DANIEL O'CONNELL." "The thing for sale calls forth the seller's praise," 449 "9, Clarges-street, June 1, "MY DEAR SIR,—You having acceded to the terms proposed to you. for the election of the County of Carlow—viz., you are to pay before nomination 1,000 l., l., "I am, my dear Sir, your very faithful "DANIEL O'CONNELL. "A. Raphael, Esq." l l 450 l "9, Clarges-street, June 4, 1835. "My DEAR SIR,—I have heard from Mr. Vigors this day our prospects are quite bright. "I will arrange your address for to-morrow's post, and my own for immediate publication. I at present entertain no doubt of success; you will hear again from me to-morrow. Who is Mr. Hamilton, with whom you have deposited the 1,000 l "Your very faithful servant and friend, "DANIEL O'CONNELL." "London, June 8, 1835. "MY DEAR SIR,—I sent off yesterday my letter to the electors of Carlow on your behalf; all my accounts confirm my opinion of an easy victory, I doubt whether there will be more than the show of a contest, but I am assured in any event of success. I send you a slip of a Carlow newspaper, showing that you are already nominated under the most favourable auspices. I also send you the draft of an address; I beg of you to peruse it, and to return it to me with any corrections you. may deem necessary, or if you approve it, then with your signature; my wish is that you, should alter it as little as you possibly can. I also send you a sealed letter from Mr. Vigors. I beg of you to return the address as near to four o'clock this day as you can, that I may transmit it to  The Dublin Pilot l "Faithfully yours, "DANIEL O'CONNELL." 451 l 452 453 ex animo, ex contractu. 454 l l l 455 l "SIR,—I beg you will hand my son, Mr. John O'Connell, the 1,000 l "I have the honour to be, Sir, "Your obedient servant, "DANIEL O'CONNELL." 456 457
 Mr. Hardy  wanted nothing but a full, fair, and impartial, inquiry; but he confessed it did not appear to him that the amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport was in the least degree necessary; not that he had any objection to the in-
 488
 Mr. Hardy  rose to nominate the Committee. An arrangement bad been come to between him and the hon. and learned Member, through the intervention of mutual friends, for the purpose of agreeing upon the names of the number requisite for forming a Committee, and he regretted that, both in that and in other respects, it had been made too much of a party question. [ Tremendous cheering from the Ministerial side of the House.
 Mr. Walter  said, the learned Member had spoken of the public press, and by an allusion, had connected some portion of it with a Member of that House, by which Member he found the learned Gentleman was understood to mean him. He should have little to say in reply, because he was very certain, and so must be the learned Member, that be had no authority for his assertion. He could, however, assure the learned Member that he was much better satisfied with his attacks in that House, than with his menaces out of it—of which there had been plenty—amonghis dignified followers. It might, perhaps, not have been quite safe to reply to him before those gentle personages; but in that House he could repel his slanderous insinuations without fear, except that degree of timidity which any one unused to speak often must feel. The learned Member overrated his own importance if he supposed that he (Mr. Walter) had ever thought it worth his while to make the learned Member the object of attack in any publication whatever. He was himself as well qualified as any one to judge of the effect of such attacks; for from the moment when, in compliance with a public requisition, he sought to obtain the station he occupied in that House, and in the county which he had the honour to represent, every species of libel had been heaped upon him by his political opponents; but those libels failed in his case, and if they had not equally failed in that of the learned Member, he could tell him why—and he regretted that the learned Member had left the House without hearing this part of his answer—because their characters were different. To him (Mr. Walter) these libels were mere matter of contempt, because they were false; they galled the learned Member for Dublin — they provoked his wrath in the House, his menaces out of it, for the opposite cause —he knew, he felt them to be true—and with this observation he would leave that branch of the subject. While, however, he repelled what he must call a most unwarrantable interference with himself personally, he hoped he should not be considered as setting himself above those honourable labours which had been the
 484 485
 Mr. Hume  said, that nothing could be fairer than the conduct of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, It was, however, most material that the express declaration of the extent of the inquiry now proposed by the hon. Member for Bridport should be adopted by the House. It was essential to the purposes of justice that an opportunity should be given of showing that the bargain was not between the hon. and learned Member for Dublin and Mr. Raphael. 'Yes, he would repeat his assertion—the bargain was not between the hon. and learned Member for Dublin and Mr. Raphael, but between Vigors and Raphael.
 Mr. Scholefield  could bear testimony to the statements made by his hon. Colleague. Never were good order and unanimity more observable than upon the occasion when this petition was agreed to. There were three points which the petition embraced, but he would only call attention to one of them. There was only one opinion as to the necessity of Irish Corporate Reform, reform of the Irish Church, and as to the necessity of poor laws for Ireland; but there was a difference of opinion between him and his constituents with regard to a reform of the House of Lords. It was the desire of many of the people of Birmingham not to interfere with the privileges of the House of Lords, so long as they did not obstruct the progress of improvement.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  then rose to move for leave to bring in the Bill for reforming the Municipal Corporations of Ireland.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  would gladly avail himself of the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet. He then moved that leave be given to bring in a Bill for the regulation of Municipal Corporations in Ireland.
 Mr. Wason  was compelled to complain that the hon. and learned Member for Bradford had disclosed what had passed in private conversation. He had certainly told the hon. and learned Member that he had some idea of proposing a resolution of instructions to be given to the Committee, and wrote it down before his face, The resolution was to the effect, that there be laid before the House, an account of the expenses of all elections since and during the last general election; that an inquiry be made into all the preliminary arrangements of the said election; that the whippers in on both sides of the House be examined; and that certain parties connected with the Carlton Club, who had been publicly accused of receiving and using money at those elections, be examined. Whatever might be the character of the present motion, one thing at least was clear—that no Committee could be appointed, under existing circumstances, which would inspire confidence. Whatever might be thought of the character of such a Committee within the walls of that House, the public out of doors would regard it with anything but respect. As a proof that this observation was well founded, he would beg to call the attention of the House to a paragraph which appeared in one of the newspapers of yesterday evening, the  Standard. primâ facie 486 487
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  said that he had an important petition to present to the House from the inhabitants of the town of Birmingham. It emanated from a meeting called by the Council of the Political Union, a society to which he felt it an honour to belong, and which had far different objects in view from those of the Orange Society, its objects being the maintenance of the liberties of the people, of the laws of the realm, and of the rights and privileges of the Crown. An effort had been made to misrepresent this meeting, as if it were not a regular town's meeting of Birmingham. It was one regularly convened, held in that town, and attended by thousands. They had no regular fixed authority in Birmingham for calling a meeting of the town. Their practice, during the last twenty-five years, was, that their town meetings were either called by the High Bailiff, or by the requisition of private individuals, and such a meeting, when so convened, was always considered as representing the inhabitants of Birmingham. This meeting had taken place in consequence of the efforts which the opposite party had been making for the last twelve months to agitate and disturb the country against the Reform Bill. Since the present Ministers had come into power, he had every reason to be satisfied with their proceedings, and he had felt no disposition to push them forward by the "pressure from without." But the opponents of Ministers would not rest quiet. They resorted to all modes of attack and annoyance—to the making of Conservative political unions and associations, and to the asserting and publishing all manner of falsehoods. He, in common with the rest of his neighbours, thought it fitting that those lies, and errors, and misrepresentations should be set right, and they conceived that they owed it as a duty to the Crown, to the Legislature, and to the
 440 pari passu 441
 Mr. Dugdale  had every reason to believe that when the nature of the petition was explained, the House would not attach so much importance to it as the hon. Member who presented it appeared to expect. The principal prayer of the petition was for an organic change in the House of Lords, by which was meant an utter destruction and violation of the rights and independence of that House as a branch of the Legislature. That object might appear desirable in the eyes of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and to a few persons there who were deluded and led away by the wily eloquence of the hon. Gentleman, but it was an object held in abhorrence, and repudiated by an immense majority in that great and important town. At the time of the meeting referred to by the hon. Member, a number of gentlemen of the highest respectability connected with Birmingham objected to the course pursued by a few persons in taking upon themselves to call a Town-meeting, and to represent the feelings and opinions of the inhabitants. These gentlemen drew up a protest against the proceedings of the requisitionists, which he begged to read to the House. It was as, follows:—
 442 "Birmingham, Jan. 13, 1836. "An advertisement and placard having been issued by certain persons calling themselves ' The Council of the Birmingham Political Union,' and pretending to act under an authority intrusted to them by the inhabitants of Birmingham on the 4th of September last, and these persons having taken upon themselves to convene a general meeting of the inhabitants for the purpose of passing an address to the King, and a petition to the House of Commons, "We, the undersigned magistrates, clergy, gentry, bankers, merchants, manufacturers, tradesmen, and other inhabitants of Birmingham, publicly protest against the proceedings of this self-constituted body. We deny that either on the 4th of September last, or on any other occasion, 'the inhabitants of Birmingham intrusted' those persons with any power, authority, or right to represent them in any way whatever. We deny that they do, in fact, represent either the property, the respectability, or the opinions of this town, and we lake this step with a view to disabuse the public mind as to the nature and pretensions of the proposed meeting, and that the character of this town may be no longer compromised and its commercial interests injured by the proceedings of the Political Union." 443
 Sir Robert Peel  interrupted the hon. and learned Gentleman, and suggested that as it was impossible, after a discussion of the exciting nature of that which the House had just listened to, to induce hon. Members to attend calmly to a new subject, he would recommend the hon. and learned Gentleman to introduce his Bill at once, and to enter upon an explanation of its details in proposing the second reading of it.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  observed, that the resolution alleged that there had been a negotiation for an agreement between the hon. and learned Member for Dublin and Mr. Raphael; that allegation might, no doubt, be met by evidence for the purpose of rebutting it, and then doubtless a different question would arise; Still that other question lay within the scope of the inquiry, even though the amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport had never been moved. The main question was, had there or had there not been a negotiation of the nature stated? And he repeated, that in order to the investigation, of that question, no addition to the resolution was necessary, at the same time that he did not feel any objection to the-words proposed to be added. As he before said, he thought them unnecessary, for it was clear the application of the money was part of the  res gestœ. 489
 Lord Sandon  wished to know if the proposed inquiry was intended by the hon. Member for Bridport to embrace all the circumstances connected with the late Car-low election, because, if it was proposed to drag before the Committee the whole history of those transactions, that object would be much better effected by acting on the notice already given respecting those matters than by adopting the Amendment then before the House. Nevertheless, he should not so much object to the Amendment, if there were a distinct understanding that it was not to be made a cloak to shelter or conceal the main object of inquiry, from which he contended all attention would be driven if some definite limit were not placed to the inquiry. Looking at the notice which, had been given and withdrawn, and looking, too, at the defence which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, he saw every reason to suppose that the more extensive inquiry, which he feared, was actually intended by the mover and the supporters of the Amendment. It was, therefore, most material that there should be at) explicit understanding on the subject. If it was fitting that the several cases of I he widows and the orphans should be gone into by another Committee, and on a different Motion, it would of course be the pleasure and the duty of the House to engage in such an inquiry; but, most assuredly, not at a time when it was occupied with a transaction such as had then been brought under their consideration. Once more, then, he begged to inquire what was the interpretation which the mover of the
 491
 Lord Sandon  was satisfied with the application which the hon. Member for Bridport gave of the proposed amendment, and the limits now being; distinctly ascertained, he should abstain from offering any opposition to the amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the law, as it at present stood, was abominable. Nothing could be more frightfully unjust. In a criminal prosecution the prosecutor's counsel might make two speeches, while the prisoner's counsel was not allowed to say one word. There were cases of circumstantial evidence in which, unless counsel were allowed to interfere, the facts must remain unexplained. He had known instances in which prisoners could not possisibly have been convicted had counsel been allowed to plead in their favour. He
 498
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  was convinced that the Bill would fail in assisting the ends of justice. He thought it advisable,
 499
 Dr. Lushington  was decidedly in favour of the Bill; and when it was said by those who opposed It that the whole weight of the bar, and the whole authority of the bench was ranged against it, he would only observe that the noble and learned Lord, the Chief Justice of the King's Bench, whose situation as Common Sergeant in the City of London, had given him great experience in the administration of Criminal law, had expressed to him an anxious wish for the success of a measure of this description. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Huntingdon, (Sir F. Pollock), that the law, in its present state, was a disgrace to the country.
 Lord Stanley  was very desirous to cor-
 507 l l l l
 Mr. French remarked  , that the right hon. Gentleman had studiously avoided noticing any of the questions put to him by the noble Lord, and had not by any means satisfactorily accounted for the delay complained of. The noble Lord had inquired if there was any prospect of the Report of the Commissioners being presented in sufficient time, to enable the works for the improvement of the navigation of this river to be commenced in the course of the ensuing summer, a question of the utmost importance, but to which the right hon. Gentleman had not given any answer, nor had they been told how it was proposed the Grand Canal should be dealt with. He (Mr. French) had no hesitation in avowing he was one of those Irish Members who, in common with the noble Lord, was deeply dissatisfied with the way in which this important question had been delayed. That dissatisfaction arose solely for the sake of his constituents and the public. He had neither personal nor family interest in it. He would not, however, charge his Majesty's Ministers collectively with the delay which had taken place—a delay which was universally complained of, but would at once attribute it to its proper quarter—to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he trusted the House would agree with him this assertion was neither unfair nor incorrect, when he should have briefly recalled to their minds the circumstances which had taken place. No indication being shown on the part of Government of an intention to bring forward any measure for the improvement of the Shannon, notwithstanding the various reports both of engineers and Committees of this House, the noble Lord, the Member for Calne, felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the state of this river, and to move an address to his Majesty on the 2nd. of May last. In the course of the debate the right hon. Gentleman, on the part of Government, undertook to introduce a measure for the improvement of its navigation. On this understanding no division was called for, and the subject was left in his hands. Considerable time, however, elapsed, and no steps were taken to carry this promise into effect. He and
 511 512
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  regretted that the Commissioners had not been nominated immediately upon the royal assent being given to the Bill of last Session; he must, however, add, that the gentlemen who composed the body of Commissioners answered the right hon. Gentleman's description.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was quite right as to the time at which the Commissioners were appointed, for if they had taken the survey at the time mentioned—namely, in August or September,—the river Shannon, which was then at its lowest, and consequently the average height of water, or the levels of the river could not be ascertained. He certainly thought, with the gallant Member for Donegal, that the proposed grant ought to be lent at the lowest possible rate of interest.
 Mr. Blackburne  rose in conformity with the notice which he had given, to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances attending the late election of the municipal council of the borough of Poole. If the circumstances which were stated in the petition which he held in his hand from a number of the inhabitants of Poole were heard before the Committee, he felt that he should be justified in asking permission of the House to bring in a bill to set aside the recent election of the corporate body in that borough, and to give the inhabitants the opportunity of another election. His present motion might, therefore, be considered merely as a preliminary proposition to ulterior measures. He trusted that if, in the opinion of almost every Member of the House, a case could be made out either of gross errors, or rather frauds, that had been committed in the municipal election in this borough, that steps would be taken to have them nullified. He might, probably, be told, that the proceedings which had been adopted in a court of Saw were sufficient for that purpose; but he trusted that he should be able to show to the House that a court of law would not afford a satisfactory remedy. He need not detain the House with any preliminary observations, but would at once proceed to state the facts of the case. The borough of Poole was divided into two wards, namely—the north-east and the south-east wards. The two wards were to elect eighteen councillors—nine
 514 515 516 l 517 l l
 Mr. Hume presumed , as a matter of course, that his hon. and learned Friend might present the petition and have it printed; and he would recommend him to renew his Motion for inquiry on a future day, as the House was not aware of the contents of the petition. He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had advocated a dangerous doctrine in saying he would not, as a Member of Parliament, give a free opinion, because he had been retained as counsel in the case. If such a principle were to obtain, how easy would it be for a party who feared proceedings might be adopted against him in this House, to retain five or six of the most eminent men at the bar who were Members of Parliament, so as to prevent them, taking any part against him. If the hon. and learned Gentleman entertained such an opinion, he had better vacate his seat; for, according to his notion, the duties of a Member of Parliament and an advocate were incompatible. If the rule was laid
 519
 Mr. Blackburne  would for the present withdraw his Motion. He would, however, lay the petition on the Table, and move that it be printed, and call the attention of the House to it on Monday next.
 Colonel Conolly  entirely agreed in the assertion that preliminary precautions were highly necessary, and that the steps taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer were quite prudent and right. He begged to suggest, however, that whatever sum of money was granted on loan for this undertaking, it should be lent at the lowest possible rate of interest, as upon that it partly depended whether the capitalists of Ireland would consent to undertake the projected improvements. In fact, such a course had been pursued by the Government in lending money to Scotland for the purpose of national improvements, and Ireland had an equal claim to the consideration of the nation.
 Colonel Perceval  would not allow the question to go to a division without throwing back the imputation cast upon the learned Judges in Ireland by the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. O'Connell). It was the habit of the hon. and learned Member to charge those learned Functionaries with partiality. He grounded his charges not upon facts, but his prejudices. He also felt it his duty to do the same with regard to a learned Friend, whom he had also the honour to call a countryman (Mr. C. Phillips). The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had insinuated that the evidence given before the House of Lords by that Gentleman on the subject of having counsel for prisoners, was influenced by the poor, paltry, and pitiful consideration of fees. This he thought a most unjust imputation. In conclusion, all he should say was, that he thought the present law was better than the proposed measure.
 Mr. Lynch  supported the Bill. In every country of Europe the privilege of being heard by counsel was allowed the prisoner; and even in this country it was not prevented by statute, but only by usage.
 Mr. Hawes  would leave the case to the decision of the House.
 Mr. Hawes  moved that it be an instruction to the Committee appointed to consider and report on the plans for the two Houses of Parliament, to inspect all the plans which had been submitted to his Majesty's Commissioners, &c., and to receive the estimates of the said plans from such architects as might be willing to furnish them to the Committee. He did not intend to cast any reflection, directly or indirectly, on the commissioners; but he deemed the inspection of all the plans necessary, in order to convince the public that, in selecting a plan for a building adequate to the purposes of the Legislature, the decision come to was right and proper. It would give the public greater confidence in that decision. The course he was anxious to pursue would by no means open up the whole question again, which he particularly wished to avoid.
 Mr. Jephson  said, that the House should have an understanding with the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer before it
 502
 Mr. Tulk  wished to say a few words as connected with the borough of Poole. No less than eighty-eight affidavits had been made by burgesses of the west-ward in Poole, who stated that they voted in a particular way on the last election, and although they formed the majority of the burgesses of the ward, a return was made contrary to their votes. These had been filed in the Court of King's Bench, and had not been contested. He was sorry to say that the Mayor was his particular friend at two elections, and still more
 520
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the hon. Member for Middlesex appeared to be mistaken as to the recommendation of the Committee that a public exhibition should be ordered by the House, whereas it was a private exhibition by the artists themselves that they had sanctioned. There was also a great fallacy in the idea that several estimates by distinct architects could be expected to harmonies. Where, for instance, one man adopted a different standard of value for labour, or bricks, or timber from that of another, it would be impossible to arrive at any useful comparative result, and it would be a palpable loss of time to all parties to enter on such a course, though, he confessed, it would be only consistent to require a satisfactory estimate, with working drawings, of any plan that the House might be inclined to approve, before they finally adopted it. It would, however, be mere folly to require estimates of ninety-five plans. The cost would be enormous, and the advantage nothing.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that a distinct understanding was come to with respect to the grant for the river Shannon improvements, that until a survey had been made, and the local improvements and benefits conferred thereby upon the proprietors of
 513
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that the question was, whether the practical working of such a Bill would be beneficial to prisoners. If he could persuade himself that it would be realty advantageous to them, he should give it, his warmest support. But he confessed that, as at present informed, he entertained very strong doubts upon the point.
 Mr. Poulter  would never consent that every case of felony should be accompanied with a speech from the counsel for the prisoner. Were such a practice to be adopted it would have the effect of destroying that pure administration of justice which had hitherto been attended with such beneficial effects, and he believed, likewise, that it would prove highly injurious to the prisoner's case.
 Mr. Cripps  thought, that if the Bill were passed, prisoners would not be so well off as they were under the present system.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the observations of the right hon. Baronet. The House, in his opinion, had made one or two serious errors in their decision of the question. The first was permitting the Commissioners to decide on the best plans. Some of these plans, if he was rightly informed, were exhibited to the Commissioners themselves and to the public by the architects long before the decision had been come to respecting them. Besides, accustomed as the Commissioners were to the styles of different architects, they could easily recognize in the several drawings the hand of the artist. He had been informed that Mr. Barry, the successful candidate, had exhibited his plan publicly before the decision of the Commissioners in its favour. The next mistake was with regard to the question of expenses. It was not his fault, however, as he had suggested to the Committee that the expenses
 504
 Mr. Hume  contended that the right hon. Gentleman had acted with extreme propriety and prudence in taking measures to ascertain the value of the improvements upon the estates of the local proprietors of the river Shannon before he proceeded to propose any grant of public money. In fact, no Chancellor of the Exchequer could have acted with more wisdom than the right hon. Gentleman had done in this case. He would venture to take the defence of the right hon. Gentleman on his shoulders, and he was sure that the right hon. Gentleman need not defend himself.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted the accuracy of his noble Friend's recollection of the extent of the powers intrusted to the Committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had no difficulty whatever in granting at once the papers asked for by the noble Lord; at the same time he must express his surprise at some of the remarks which had fallen from his noble Friend. The charge which the noble Lord had brought against him was, that he was overcautious, over-scrupulous in the steps which he took in granting away the public money. He would acknowledge that he had been cautious, and he would tell the noble Lord why. He had thought it necessary before the grant of any money was proposed or sanctioned by the Government, that the House should be put in possession of the plans of the undertaking, and of the amount of local levies to be made in support of it. He was perfectly aware, as the noble Lord had stated, that he could have had plenty of plans for nothing at all from local parties who were interested in the scheme, but that sort of information and project it did not suit the Government to accept, or to go to work upon. He, therefore, sought the whole profession of engineers to obtain men who were qualified by their attainments and high character to enter upon the examination of the localities, and to project the works, and who were, moreover, free from local bias or partialities, and the names of the Commissioners would be found to justify his choice. The Government were bound in the most peculiar manner, after the signal failure of some similar works, to protect the public against loss or mis-
 510
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declared that the reproaches which had been directed against the Committee were highly unjust. There was not the slightest information given to the profession which could enable one interested party to take an advantage of another. So little aware were the candidates of the opinions of the Committee that one of the successful parties had actually taken steps to exhibit his plans along with others, imagining that he was among the rejected.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  believed that the Commissioners were empowered to take nothing into consideration besides the beauty and convenience of the plans laid before them for selection. They could not take cognizance of the expense, as it was a question which did not fall within the line of duty marked out for them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the motion, It would be a re-opening of the whole case. Certain resolutions were affirmed by the whole House, which went to the appointment of a Commission for the purpose of selecting the best plans from among the many offered; and the Select Committee of the last Session had been revived this Session to choose one from the number thus selected. The Commissioners were men of experience and knowledge—and they were perfectly unconnected with the candidates, and perfectly unprejudiced. They had given judgment in favour of four plans out of the number submitted to them; and those they recommended to the consideration of the Select Committee of the House. The other plans were in the meanwhile open to public inspection and general canvass. If the House were now to refer the whole ninety-four plans submitted to the Commissioners to the Committee, the greatest embarrassment would be caused, and no good would result from it. He thought it inexpedient, therefore, to adopt the motion of his hon. Friend the member for Lambeth
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that the whole proceeding respecting the new Houses of Parliament had been the proceeding of the House of Commons, and that the course adopted by the Government respecting the plans, had been controlled by the resolutions of a Committee up stairs. No limitation whatsoever with respect to expense was contained in those resolutions; the principal object was to get the best plan that could be obtained of a building for the accommodation of the Legislature, and the artists were left entirely free as to the article of expense: no restriction being imposed on them, except as to the style of building. As no limitation of expense was imposed, of course all the architects were
 503
 Mr. Ewart  moved the second reading of the Prisoners' Defence by Counsel Bill. In doing so, he said, that he had brought forward the Bill on the same grounds urged by him last Session. That being the fact, he did not deem it necessary to go into any very lengthened details on the present occasion. His great object then, as now, was, to secure the means of eliciting truth and promoting justice. He felt strengthened in his course of proceeding by the example of other countries on this very question; and by the fact that his Bill had received the sanction and support of gentlemen of the bar of Scotland.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  thought that the subject of expense should receive immediate attention, as very erroneous views had gone abroad on the subject. He had heard that the author of one of the selected plans had been congratulated on his success by some one who expressed a doubt that the expense would be a bar to its erection, and that the architect had declared it could be erected for 500,000 l
 Mr. Hall  agreed with the hon. Member, that, although one plan had received a premium of 1,500 l l 506
 Sir Frederick Pollock  was not sufficiently acquainted with the business of the House of Commons to say, whether an hon. Gentleman was justified or not in making a Motion for a Committee of Inquiry, because he might have heard something that had taken place at an election which appeared to him to be irregular. The House was not even aware of the contents of the petition, unless from the description of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He took it for granted that the petition would have been presented to the House and printed, that hon. Members might be aware of the facts of the case before being called upon to vote for a Committee of Inquiry. He did not
 518
 Sir Frederick Pollock  entirely agreed in what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin on this subject. The present state of the law was not only disgraceful to the Legislature, but most dangerous to the community at large—It was also fraught with anomalies. If a man were under a criminal charge, would he not be desirous to have counsel? And if capable of addressing the Court himself, might he not be his own counsel? The principle was strictly observed in civil cases, and he did not see why it should not apply with infinitely greater force in those which were of a criminal nature. It was quite impossible that the Judge could act as counsel for the prisoner, all he could do was to ascertain the particulars of the charge brought against him. He (Sir F. Pollock) held it to be essential that the prisoner's counsel should have the last word. He had frequently known a good defence to be kept back through the fear of the reply on the part of the counsel for the prosecution. He entirely concurred in the principle and objects of this Bill.
 Sir Frederick Trench  said, the candidates and the House also would have been saved immense difficulties if a maximum of expense had been stated for their guidance. Each of the plans selected by the Committee might (for want of such previous instruction) cost two millions, perhaps, instead of one, if put in execution; so that, when the House came to decide on the best, it might find the whole four objectionable in this view, and it might therefore find itself placed in great difficulties, and be obliged to begin  de novo.
 The Attorney-General  had heard nothing which tended in the slightest degree to alter the opinion which he had formed upon this subject very early in his professional career. It had been stated by those who were opposed to the measure, that no members of the legal profession, who had practised much in the Crown Courts, had expressed an opinion in its favour. Now
 500
 Sir Eardley Wilmot   said, that the opinions he entertained last Session in regard to this measure had been fully confirmed by the inquiries he had since made, and he therefore felt called upon to move, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. Nine-tenths of the profession and the Judges were decidedly hostile to the alteration it proposed. If any practical measure—a measure, for instance, doing away with all speeches upon a criminal prosecution, or for allowing a speech for the prisoner when there was a speech for a prosecution—were introduced, he would give it his support; but he could not consent to a Bill, which, like the present, opened the door to the greatest possible confusion and inconvenience, without being calculated in the smallest degree to assist those for whose benefit it professed to be introduced. He moved as an Amendment, "That the Bill be read a second time that day six months."
 Sir Robert Inglis  trusted that the House would not adopt any course that would have the effect of delaying the erection of the new buildings and embarrassing the
 505
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the particular and practical question he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman was—When the Commissioners were appointed by the Government to select the best plans and give prizes to the most deserving artists, were they directed to decide on the abstract question of whether one plan was better than another, or were their instructions to combine economy with beauty, and take into consideration the expenses as well as the fitness of the plans they selected? He wished to know whether the artists had any guide? and whether one said—"I'll send in my plan without considering the expense of it," while another said—"I'll consider the expense as well as the propriety of my plan for the purpose. If no limitation had been suggested or understood he was very much afraid that the Commissioners had selected the four best plans without reference to the expense.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite a question. When the parties were invited to send in their plans was there any intimation conveyed to them as to the limits of the expense which would probably be incurred by the nation? For instance, were they told that 500,000 l, l
 Mr. Williams Wynn   defended the propriety of the original determination of the House to obtain the best plan without a view to expense, and agreed with the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton), that the various units of value adopted by estimators for timber, stone, bricks, labour, &c., would probably have only led to false conclusions, especially when they considered the site of the building in the vicinity of the river, and the various views that architects might be expected to take of a proper foundation in that locality. The experience they had obtained in the case of the Custom House proved that the cheapest plan was not always the best; and he thought the safest way in the present instance was, to refer the task of drawing up an estimate for the adopted plan to some builder of eminence, who should not be interested as a competitor in the transaction. An estimate furnished by the architect would, after all, be quite valueless, for it would be impossible to expect that in a national work of this nature he could find security that it should not exceed the amount of his calculation; and though he might estimate the cost at 300,000 l
 Mr. Williams Wynn  concurred in the opinion that the petition should be presented before the debate was proceeded with, although there were cases in which inquiry might be justifiable, if an hon. Member stated facts which came within his own knowledge. He could not agree at alt in the observations made by the hon. Member for Middlesex with reference to his hon. and learned Friend. There were feelings of delicacy which would apply to every honourable mind, which would induce a person to abstain from taking part in the Parliamentary discussion of a case in which he was professionally engaged. An advocate was generally in the confidence of parties, and communications were constantly made to him which it would be contrary to every sense of justice for him to use elsewhere against his client. He thought, therefore, it was the more delicate course for a party who was engaged professionally in a cause to abstain from speaking or voting on it in the House of Commons. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend that it would be highly inconvenient to have an inquiry going on before a Committee of the House of Commons, white it was the subject of a cause before a court of justice. In extreme cases, such as high treason, it might be necessary to send evidence to a Committee of the House of Commons to take measures for the safety of the country.
 Lord Clements , in moving for certain papers relative to the projected improvements of the river Shannon, observed that the right hon. gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), during the preceding Session, had stated as a reason why he had been unable to bring forward the Government plans with respect to this undertaking; the great pressure of other business, by which his attention was altogether occupied. It was owing to this that the Bill which passed last Session, for the purpose of authorising certain preparatory proceedings to be taken relative to the landed proprietors whose estates would be benefited by the projected alterations, was deferred until the month of August; but he could not conceive that there was any excuse for the delay in appointing Commissioners to act under that Bill; nor that there was any reason why the Commission should be restricted to the mere purpose of ascertaining the amounts to be levied on the landed proprietors, or why the Commissioners should not at once proceed to carry into execution the projects of improvement. These several delays, together with those which might be expected, would postpone the matter to an indefinite period. Besides, the Government of this country was not fit to deal with matters of this description, they being rather of a local than of a general nature. It was for this reason that he felt some surprise at the Government having declined to receive or to sanction the plans of those parties who, being interested in the work, and who, being local proprietors, must of necessity be better able to suggest and to carry into effect the improvement required, and his surprise was the greater when he considered that the Government would have been furnished with these plans gratuitously. He did not mean to deny the fitness of the Commissioners to execute the task which had devolved upon them, but he considered that five engineers of such eminence as those named in the Commission were too many to appoint for such a purpose, and the only result to be looked for would be that some plan of great magnificence and grandeur would be suggested, which the House of Commons would never feel itself authorised to grant money to execute,
 509
 Lord Sandon  observed that it had been hardly ever found, in any case, that an architect was enabled to give in a correct estimate of the probable expense of a building, until it was actually erected. He hoped the principle of the Resolution Which bad been moved by the hon. Member for Southwark would be recognised and adopted by the House.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the hon. Baronet had taken leave to mention the name of Sir Frederick Stoven, but refused to give the name of the officer with whom the hon. Baronet had been in communication. That was not justice! The hon. Baronet took care to mention the name of the accused, but he carefully concealed the name of the accuser. Now, if the story was true, if it was not a delusion practised on the hon. Baronet, the person so charged ought not to be permitted to retain office
 539
 Mr. William, Roche  supported the Bill, and
 551
 Colonel Thompson  suggested that much time might be saved in, divisions if the lobbies were on the sides of the House, and there were several doors into them from the House. When all the Members had got into the lobbies, all the doors with the exception of one should be shut, through which the Members could return into the House.
 Mr. O'Connell : I shall not trespass long upon the House; but I feel called upon by the very triumphant tone in which the hon. and learned Gentleman has challenged me upon the point of law, totally to disclaim his law. I feel morally convinced that he is entirely mistaken in that law. I do not rise to arraign it as a fault in the Protestant clergy, that they have been filing a great number of bills, by the aid of a thing called the Lay Association; but to show what an irrational cause for a triumph has been claimed over the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, that he did not exactly know by whose direct instrumentality the Lay Association worked, or how many of those suits had been volunteered by the clergy themselves. I do not think that the hon. Member was very culpable in not knowing the one or the other, nor why there should have been such a vehement thumping of the box, because he happened not to be aware of it. I do not know in what of all this consisted the triumph. There are truisms which may be bawled out until they crack the ears of the listeners. It is quite true that we should carry the law into effect. I do not know of any man who will now gravely stand up in any assembly, and say, that the law ought not to be executed. All these things were perfectly true; but the question is, will they apply to the matter before us? Some, indeed, may regret that the Protestant clergy have no better manner of converting their parishioners, than first by going to law and then to war with them. The process of conversion is now 614 bills in equity and a writ of rebellion. This certainly must reconcile the people of that country to the religion of those clergymen; and this is the cause of triumph, to make them thus levy their dues, of which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite has boasted. Now, if the Lay Association, instead of combining to carry on vexatious proceedings against the community, had subscribed money to pay and support the Protestant clergy out of their own pockets, their act might have met with the approbation of every human being. Surely the subscription to such a fund has been praised by everyone who has heard of it; and the act of those who have generously supported the clergymen in. whose doctrines they believe, has been universally approved of. I had imagined, when I was at the bar, that it was taken to be undoubtedly the law, that five or six persons combining together to carry on law suits, were doing an act which was not approved of
 583 584 Cheers from the Opposition. 585 Magna Charta. Laughter from the Opposition in which Colonel Perceval we believe was distinguished.
 Mr. Lefroy  was not surprised to hear the hon. and learned Gentleman arraign the Court of Exchequer. There was no, respectable body in the empire which, he believed, had not at one time or the other been the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman's invective. Some time since he believed the hon. Gentleman had arraigned some of the Members of his majesty's present Government. He did not rise to enter into the subject at large. He was perfectly satisfied by the manner in which his hon. and learned Friend had discharged his duty, find he should feel that he would but weaken the impression produced by his hon. and learned Friend's excellent speech were he to go at length into the subject. He certainly felt surprised to see any Member of the legal profession Stand up in his place to arraign the power of the Exchequer to issue writs in the cases
 586 587
 Colonel Conolly  did not rise to oppose the Motion; but he thought there were some parts of it which must necessarily excite the apprehension of the Magistracy in Ireland, considering the course which his Majesty's Ministers had chosen to adopt in that country, where they had made the Executive Government, he might almost say, subservient to the system of agitation which had prevailed in that country for many years. Although he himself did not loot upon it with apprehension, he could not look upon it otherwise than with distrust, seeing that a large and respectable body, against whom no objection had been made for a long series of years, who were now mature in their organization, and imbued with a knowledge of their duty, were to be removed and dispersed, and a new system was to be adopted without any grounds having been stated for the altera-
 536
 Mr. Scarlett  said, the Jaw of the case was clear that the Court of Exchequer was right. It was the general opinion of the whole legal profession that an act of rebellion was both of a civil and a criminal nature; and that the Court was authorised to enforce its authority respecting it even, in a case of costs. He could not repress the expression of his utter surprise that the King's Attorney-General could be found in Parliament attacking the Judges of the land. Was it already come to this, that the authority of the Courts of Law was to be set at nought, and the Judges vilified, and vilified, too, for not the most honourable of purposes—for party purposes? He thought that the Irish Government was bound to attend to the opinion of the Judges, instead of thwarting and deriding it.
 Lord John Russell  wished to say a very few words on this subject; and in doing so, he should endeavour to steer clear of all differences, whether of interest or passion, that might exist between Irish parties, and to state as briefly and concisely as possible what he conceived to be the general reasons on which the Bill proposed by his noble Friend (Lord Morpeth) was founded. There was at present an armed police force in Ireland, very different from any that existed in England, but which was thought necessary to keep the peace in that country. The object of the Bill now proposed by the noble Lord was to remedy the inconvenience which at present resulted from the imperfect organization of that force. In the first place, it appeared that the police of Ireland
 541 542
 Lord John Russell  thought the House were indebted to the hon. Gentleman for bringing the subject under their notice.
 Lord John Russell  thought that the best argument which had been used for the adoption of the plan was the erection of the additional lobby. He was not aware that the lobby wag to have been built, and was not aware of its erection until he found it where it was. He trusted that the House would consent to try the experiment of the hon. Gentleman, at the same time he would not say that some inconvenience might not arise from it. He could not help feeling that there would be a material difference in point of time in taking the divisions. The division last night was 190 to thirty-six, and certainly in this case no great time would be consumed, but when a very large number of Members were present a material difference would be perceived. His hon. Friend urged that by adopting this course correct lists of the names of Members who voted in the divisions would be furnished. Certainly, as the habit prevailed of publishing lists of divisions, it was desirable that they should be accurate. His hon. Friend said inaccurate lists were constantly published in the newspapers, and that Members had to write to correct those lists. It was one thing, however, to correct the lists in the newspapers, and another having to get up and complain to the House of errors in the votes, in the latter case of course it would be necessary to search out where the error arose. As it appeared that the lobby was ready he could see no objection to make a trial of the resolution.
 Colonel Perceval  would not attempt to make any reply to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He really believed the hon. Gentleman had made use of the words without intending to use them, and many sentences, which in his cooler moments he, would not have troubled the House with. He (Colonel Perceval) rose for the purpose of saying that the explanation of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, relative to the intention of his Majesty's Government of selecting a man so unanimously admired and respected as Colonel Shaw, would undoubtedly remove many of the difficulties and objections which he and his friends were of opinion had existed against the Bill as introduced during the last Session of Parliament. He would, undertake to show, that they were not inconsistent in opposing the measure of the noble Lord, up to the moment that this explanation was made. As the power which the local Magistrates possessed of making appointments was to be taken away by this Bill, and the inspectors-general, in whom all parties placed the most unequivocal confidence, to be removed, their opposition to the measure was grounded, upon, the apprehension, justly, he would say, formed from these circumstances, that this indication on the part of his Majesty's Government in Ireland would have been followed up by the appointment of partisans of its own, for the purpose of carrying this measure into effect. One of the reasons for his so thinking had been adverted to by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, but as he (Colonel Perceval) was anxious to prevent any further pique upon the subject, and was also desirous of allowing the feelings of both parties to be directed to the improvement of the Bill, with a view to render it as beneficial a measure as possible to all portions of the community—he would not now more particularly allude to his reasons of objection than by merely asking the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, whether it was his intention to introduce a Clause authorising his Majesty's Government to grant a retiring allowance to the Inspectors-General for Ireland, commensurate with the services they had rendered. He alluded particularly, to the Inspector-General who had been at the head of the police department for such a
 547
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  said, that having entertained, in common with his hon. Friends who had spoken against this Bill, a great objection to the changes it proposed, he must admit that he concurred in principle with those who thought that appointments in the police should be made by a responsible authority; but it could not be supposed that the magistrates and gentry of Ireland would be satisfied with a measure which would transfer such power to a Government who, they had good reason for supposing, would be guided, in the disposal of their patronage, by an influence which was both dangerous and irresponsible. He was ready to admit that some of his objections were removed by the character given by the noble Lord of the gentleman who was to be placed over the police, confirmed as it was by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth and in withdrawing his opposition he was glad to prove to the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. H. Grattan) notwithstanding his exaggerated statements, that he did not object to a measure, if a good one, from whatever side of the House it might come. And he trusted, from the great experience and high character of the officer who would have the superintendence of the police, that a confident hope might be entertained that, disregarding all party feeling, he would only desire to have that force as efficient as possible, for the protection of life and property in Ireland.
 Mr. Charles Buller * * 552 l. l. l. l., l. l. 553 554 l. 555 l. l. l 556 l. 557 s, d. Valor Ecclesiasticus, "Rotuli Selecti," 558 Testa de Neville l. l. Account of the Public Records Proposal for building a Record-office, and Judges' chambers 559 Captain Rock. l. l. Monasticon, l.
 Mr. Baines  would not say that the expenses had not been considerable, but the
 562
 Mr. Lucas  rose for the purpose of protesting against the transfer proposed by the noble Lord. He conceived that the local Magistrates were the persons in whom the appointments ought to rest; and he could not agree in the propriety of transferring the appointment of the constables to the Lord-Lieutenant. He believed he spoke the sentiments of his own county, as well as those of the landed proprietors of Ireland generally. The Magistrates of his own county had had two meetings on the subject; and he knew that he was speaking the sentiments of most of the resident gentry and landlords of the county, when he said, that the Magistracy was the constitutional body by which the constabulary was to be appointed. The Magistracy knew the characters of the persons who applied to be appointed, which the Inspector-General could not do. He must protest, therefore, against the transfer of the appointment of the constables from the local Magistracy and resident landlords to Government. It might be said, that the Magistrates would be influenced by a system of favouritism in recommending their own tenantry to the office of constable, but he must protest against such a doctrine. He was old-fashioned enough to think that the Magistrates were the more constitutional authorities. The character of the gentry of Ireland had, in-
 537
 Mr. Shaw  would not enter upon a general defence of the Magistrates of Ireland on the present occasion, so unjustly treated by the noble Lord's proposition. He was disposed, however, to agree with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that it was not proper to place power in irresponsible hands; but he could not agree with the hon. and learned Member that the hon. Member for Londonderry had brought forward his charge on anonymous authority. He had stated that the constable had made a communication to him personally; and he had stated that on his own authority. One of the effects of the Bill would certainly be to vest very considerable additional patronage in the hands of the Irish Government. Upon that point, however, it was not his intention then to dwell. As to the appointment of Roman Catholics, he would merely say that he was one of those who never objected to a man because he was a Roman Catholic; but at the same time he was strongly of opinion that no man ought to be appointed merely because he was a Roman Catholic. He did not mean to give offence to anybody; but he could not help observing a circumstance which had recently taken place in Ireland, namely, that in the appointment of thirty-four new officers—solicitors for conducting prosecutions at quarter sessions—thirty were chosen of the Roman Catholic persuasion. He did not mean to object to any of the gentlemen who had been thus appointed; but looking at the state of society in Ireland, and considering that in the legal profession there was a vast proportion of well-educated Protestants, he would ask any unprejudiced person whether the selection of so many Roman Catholics could be regarded as perfectly fair.
 Mr. Shaw , in explanation, begged to say, in reference to the number of Roman Catholics amongst the newly-appointed Crown Solicitors, that he had abstained from making a remark on the subject so long as the fact rested on mere report or newspaper authority; but he had spoken on the authority of a letter he then held in his hand, from a Gentleman, a friend of his own, of the highest character and station, who had assured him of the correctness of the statement, and since he had before spoken on the subject that evening, he had written to that Gentleman to request he would furnish him with the particulars of the case.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he felt ashamed at seeing the right hon. the Attorney-General for Ireland coming forward to impugn not only the King's Judges in Ireland generally, but in particular the King's Chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer in Ireland. There might, however, be some excuse for the right hon. and learned Gentleman, for in attacking these distinguished personages he was probably defending himself. It was remarkable, as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bandon had observed, that the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary said, he should not adduce that part of his motion, on which he principally relied, without further notice—and yet the hon. Member had broken his faith, and endeavoured to lake them by surprise. The right hon. the Attorney-General then followed up the attack, armed at all points. He should not further remark on this singular concurrence between the two hon. and learned Gentlemen. As to the point which adverted to the inconsistency of the Chief Baron of the Irish Exchequer in pronouncing a decision contrary to his previous opinion as the Legal Adviser of the Crown, he supposed that such was not the fact—nay, he could prove it; but even if it were such, why should not that Judge have the firmness to act against any opinion of former times which his more mature judgment perceived to have been given without due deliberation? It was, to use a gentle phrase, a pure fiction to say that an attachment had been issued against a gentleman, at a distance from the scene of action of eighty miles, because he did not come forward to aid the clerical attorney. It certainly was true that the writs from the Exchequer Courts had been levied on the most respectable and solvent parties, because they were unwilling to incur useless costs against insolvent defendants, and also from a motive of humanity, they wished to save the misled individuals from suffering for the wickedness of others. The right hon. Gentleman said, the writ was never a civil process. He was not anxious to put his legal knowledge in competition with that of the right hon. Gentleman, but he defied any one to deny that, in those cases wherein it was issued, the circumstance
 599 Cheers from the Ministerial benches, in which Mr. Sheil joined. 600
 Mr. Grote  was glad that the right hon. Baronet was disposed to give the plan a fair trial, as he had no doubt of its success. He did not suppose that it could be carried into effect without some additional time, but certainly it would not be of any considerable duration. He objected to intrusting discretionary power to any man, but he thought in this case no great evil could result from leaving it to the Speaker.
 Mr. Barron  said, that for many years it had been the policy of the Irish Government not to appoint Roman Catholics to any official situation, so that no apology would be due from the present Government, even if every one of the appointments which had been referred [to were of Roman Catholics. But the accusation which had been brought forward against the Government this night appeared to be totally false and unfounded. He rejoiced that the right hon. Baronet opposite had given his support to the principle of this Bill. The testimony borne by the right hon. Gentleman in its favour would go a great way with all men, both in and out of this House, and he hoped it would also go a great way with noble personages in another place, and be the means of the Bill becoming the law of the land. He sincerely trusted that the Government would go on day after day, and session after session, to assimilate the law in the two countries until Ireland, now torn to pieces by contending parties, should become peaceable, prosperous, and happy. He only regretted that the right hon. Baronet, who had been so many years in power, had not seen the necessity of making this great reform until now, when it emanated from other parties. He was sure, however, that the right hon. Baronet's enlightened mind must long since have felt the necessity of such a change; but he was unfortunately trammelled and held in bondage when in that country by the party now sitting beside and around him. He was now out of power, and they had his admission that such a change was absolutely required, and he (Mr. Barron) congratulated the House and the country upon the likelihood of the constabulary law in Ireland at length becoming what it ought always to have been.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  must bear his testimony in favour of the Government of Lord Mulgrave, and express his conviction that that noble Lord would do his duty in spite of the hon. Gentlemen opposite. If they were now obliged to have recourse to the present measure (and he admitted it to be a strong one), it was on account of the bad measures which had been adopted by the party who had so long misgoverned Ireland. He thanked God that the present Government were disposed to act upon different
 546
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that he did not recollect such a case; no such one was brought under his notice. There might be papers in the office relating to it which he did not recollect.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the plan alluded to by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, was essentially different from that now proposed. If a clerk should not be present at the time of a division, it would be easy for a Member to take his place
 Mr. Hume  said the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite seemed anxious to have all the details, and he would therefore suggest to him that it would be more satisfactory if the return stated also the amount recovered, the amount of cost, and the number and names of the attornies employed.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise at the tone of the hon. Baronet's observations. As to the proposed plan there could be no doubt of its superiority to the present system.
 Mr. Hume  suggested that, as all the old rotten stores were now selling off at the Tower, which would leave plenty of room there, the Records ought to be removed there as the best and safest place for their preservation.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  had not the slightest objection to the addition.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that both his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Lefroy), and himself had cause to complain of the course which the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary had taken on this occasion. The first part of the hon. and learned Gentleman's motion formed the subject matter of a distinct notice, and as he had told them that he would not submit it to the attention of the House without giving them some previous notice of his intention, they clearly had a right to complain of having been taken by surprise. He (Mr. Jackson) had come down to the House that evening expecting to hear the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary move in accordance with the notice on the paper; but he certainly did not anticipate that the hon. and learned Gentleman would have departed from what he had declared to be his intention. Had he been apprised that it was the intention of the hon. and learned Member to introduce any other topic on the present occasion he would have been prepared to meet him. Taken as he was by surprise he was not prepared, but still he would do justice to the Lay Association recently formed in Ireland to aid the clergy in obtaining their legitimate rights by defending them against the attack which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made against them. The hon. and learned Member had made a number of allegations for the purpose of showing that he bad grounds for his motion, not a single one of those allegations he had no hesitation in asserting, was founded in fact. The hon. and learned Gentleman had, it would seem, brought forward the subject of a former notice which he had given for the purpose only of attacking the Lay Association, by stating that it was nothing more than an Orange Association, if that could be a reproach. [" Cheers. "No, no." 573 Sheil: Sheil: "No, no." Sheil 574 "Oh." Sheil 575 l. 576 Shiel 577 578 v. 579 Hear, from Mr. O'Connell. 580 581
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  always differed from the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite with great reluctance; but he was much mistaken if he was not present himself when there was a decree of sequestration in many of these cases.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  explained that he violated no confidence in reading the extract from the letter alluded to; he found it on the file of the Court.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  agreed to the suggestion.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  begged to assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that he was not present at any one decree. He must remember, if he would just recollect himself for a moment, that not one of the defendants would be required to answer till January, and then there was a long stage between the answer and the decree. There were two or three stages between the answer and the sequestration. The return might be amended so as to give a list of the various bills filed from the 1st of August, 1834, to the 1st of August, 1835, and of the decrees of sequestration down to the present time.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  stated, that
 588 589 Cheers from the Opposition Members. 590 "I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 14th instant, and having, by the Lord-Lieutenant's desire, consulted the law adviser of the Crown, I am to acquaint you that he is of opinion that, except in a case of actual breach of the peace, the police cannot be employed by you in the capacity of Sheriff." "December 24th, 1824. "SIR,—I have received and laid before the Lord Lieutenant your letter of the 19lh inst., soliciting the aid of the police in the execution of writs, and I am to acquaint you that it is no part of the duty of the constables under the 3d Geo. IV., c. 103, to assist in executing such writs, and his Excellency, therefore, cannot give the order which you require; but if the persons properly authorised to execute
 591 "The new constables are to be employed in arresting any of the persons who can be sworn to have been guilty of the attack on the Sheriff". As to assisting the Sheriff to execute civil process, they are not to be called on except as part of the  posse comitatus, "January 24, 1825." "We have already, on full consideration, given our opinion, that the proper duty of the constables appointed under the new Act is to act in the execution of Magistrates' warrants in cases only where a breach of the peace is committed; in all other cases, the Magistrates are at liberty to proceed as they have hitherto done, the power of appointing constables for such other purposes remaining unaffected by the late Act, The Magistrates, therefore, will direct their warrants as usual, but should not deliver them for execution to the new constables. "W. C. PLUNKETT. "August, 1824." "HY JOY." "I have had the honour of receiving, and submitting to the Lord Lieutenant, your letter of the 29th ult., representing, by desire of the Justices of the Peace acting in the barony of Clanwilliam north, and county of Limerick, the difficulty in which they are placed in consequence of the police not being employed to execute warrants for the recovery of tithe. I am directed by his Excellency to inform you that, alter the most mature and repeated consideration of the subject, it is considered, that the employment of the police, in the first instance, in the execution of civil process, would lend mainly to defeat the great object of, their institution; but, that if any breach of the pence should be committed in resisting civil process, the employment pf the police to ap-
 592 "Sir,—I have to report the conduct of Mr. Benjamin Green, Sub-sheriff of this county: this day he had' three mounted men out executing a warrant, and on his return said to Serjeant Ryalls that he would require four mounted men in the morning to go close to O'Brien's Bridge, there to protect him in performing his duty. On my return from Tulla, Serjeant Ryalls acquainted me with his wishes. I sent my compliments to Mr. Green (by Serjeant Ryalls) that the duties to be performed were out of ray district; that he could get men at O'Brien's Bridge. He replied, I was very impudent for sending—such a message, and that he should have the men. When Serjeant Ryalis returned, he reported Mr. Green's reply. I was going down to call on Mr. Green, but met him in Gaol-street. I called him one side from the party he was speaking to, and, on my commencing to speak to him, he commenced abusing me in a most violent manner; said he should have the horses to go where he pleased, that they were there for his use, and many other things I cannot call to memory. I replied he should have the horses, but that I would report the circumstance to you; he said I might do so, and was so very intemperate as to collect a mob about us. I have now, Sir, to beg the favour of an inquiry into this case. If I have been in error, it will be the means of preventing a recurrence; if, on the other hand, it will appear I have not been in error, I trust you will have the goodness to take such steps as you may think best, so as to protect me in the execution of your orders; the place Mr. Green is going to is Doonass, two miles from O'Brien's Bridge, and one from Clonlara; at the former station, is Lieutenant Bendon and party; at the latter three men at present. It is twenty-three miles from Ennis. It will also be necessary to acquaint you, that on Monday all the horses were at the fair of Quin, and much worked up; this day, as I said before, he had three of them out. One man was with me at Tulla, and one ill, leaving but two not employed. I conceive that forty-six miles would be too much for the horses in a day, and particularly when men and horses are so convenient. He asked me if I thought he was to go out of his way to order those horses.
 593 "I have submitted to the Lord-Lieutenant your letter of the 13th, stating the case under which the Under-sheriff for the county Clare had required the attendance of the mounted constables for his protection, and requesting instructions as to the course to be pursued by you in the event of such demands being repeated. I am commanded to acquaint you, that the constables cannot legally be employed by the Sheriff or his deputy, in the execution of civil process, and as it is essential that this should be distinctly understood, it will be necessary that all applications for this purpose should be withstood. In the execution of criminal process, or for the maintenance of the public peace, the Sheriff has a legal power of requiring the service of the constable." "SIR—Having in my hands at this moment several of the King's writs, at the suit of the very rev. Dean Burrows, against a number of persons residing on the school lands in the barony of Glenawly, in this county, and been hitherto opposed in the execution of my duty by large armed parties, riotously assembled together, bearing flags and otherwise apparently determined to commit a breach of the peace, should I have persisted therein, I am thus reluctantly obliged to call upon his Majesty's Government for their directions how to obtain aid in support of the civil power herein, prior to my again attempting the execution thereof. "I should not thus intrude myself on your
 594 "Your advice and immediate attention to this matter will materially facilitate me in my duty in this behalf, as also remove the awkward manner I am placed in as to my power of calling on the police without a Magistrate's warrant, (which cannot at all times be procured,) or the High-sheriff attending in person. And I am, Sir, &c." "The men will, on no account, interfere in the execution of any writ, decree, or civil order, or in driving for rent, tithes, or taxes, unless called out by a Magistrate, or the High or Sub-sheriff in person, and then they wilt only consider it their duty to protect those persons in the execution of their office." "Enniskillen, Jan. 20, 1826. "SIR—In pursuance of your letter of the 24th December last, given in reply to mine, stating the necessity of my being protected in executing civil process on the school lands in the barony of Glenawly, in this county, from the armed parties which before opposed me, which letter refused me the aid and support I solicited from his Majesty's government, I repaired on the 19th (yesterday) January instant in order to execute certain of the King's writs, when the same party attacked myself and my men, rescued cattle, and the persons themselves against whom I had orders were opposed to me, and gave orders and directions to a number of men armed with guns, bayonets, forks, sticks (of all kinds), and stones, who, in the most savage manner attacked and beat myself and four men whom I had with me, three of whom are now lying in their beds under medical care, and myself unable to leave my room). The party being all strangers to us we cannot identify any; but both my own and my men's examinations have been taken as to general rescue and beating, and I have sworn against one man, against whom I had a writ, and whom, on my desiring him to deliver himself as a prisoner, ordered the party (which consisted of about 200) to kill me, who, subsequent to which, and as I believe by such directions, did knock, me down and strike me with forks and stones, and would have accomplished their object but for a respectable man who protected me, by desiring
 595 (Signed) "J. R. MAYNE. "Under-sheriff for county of Fermanagh." "The new constables are to be employed in arresting any of the persons who can be sworn to have been guilty of the attack on the Sheriff. As to assisting the Sheriff to execute civil process, they are not to be called on except as part of the  posse comitatus, "January 24, 1835." posse comitatus; l. "Dublin Castle, Oct. 30, 1826. "SIR—I have received your letter of the 19th instant relative to the fine of 5 l. 596 "I am, etc. (Signed) "HENRY GOULBURN. "Major D'Arcy, Belfast." 597 l. s. s., l. l. s d., l. s. l. s., l. s. l., l., l, l. l. l. l. l. 598
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite must be aware, from his knowledge and practice in the Court of Equity, that no bill filed since the 1st of August in the Court of Exchequer could have come now to a hearing, nor, of course, could any bill be discussed up to this period. The hon. and learned Gentleman having obtained the return he moved for, and it appearing that a certain number were not dismissed, would probably argue that all the cases not dismissed had been well founded. He thought it his duty to give this explanation in order to put the House on its guard against such an inference.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  should not have addressed the House upon the subject of this Bill, but for an observation which had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Shaw). That hon. and learned Gentleman stated, that of thirty-four local solicitors recently appointed in Ireland, thirty were Roman Catholics. Now, what was the fact? When he (Mr. O'Loghlen) was appointed to the office he had then the honour to hold, he found four local solicitors, all of whom were certainly Roman Catholics; but instead of thirty four others being added, twenty-four only were appointed, and of these, as he was credibly informed, certainly eight, and he believed nine, were Protestants; and he might add, that many of those who where Roman Catholics had received their appointment from the recommendation of Protestant Magistrates and Protestant Barristers The question of what religion the party was of never entered into the consideration of those by whom, the appointment was made. The office was not one of emolument. It consisted merely in this;—of having a person who had practised at the quarter sessions in Ireland who would undertake to prosecute such cases as might be sent to him by the Crown-solicitor in that particular circuit. And the object o the appointment was this:—to put an end if possible, to those factions and party
 548 l.
 Mr. Sheil  rose for the purpose of moving, according to notice, for a "Return of all Processes which have issued out of his Majesty's Court of Exchequer in Ireland, in the cause of Knox  v. 566 The Standard l. 567 l. l s. d. v. .l l. s. d v. 568 v. l. s. animus 569 570 571 v. 572
 Mr. Sheil , in reply, said, that he owed it in the first place to himself to state such facts as would at once relieve him from the imputation of having unexpectedly, and contrary to a previous intimation given by him, moved, in addition to what appeared on the face of the paper, for a return of the amount of bills filed since August last, for the recovery of tithes. He Mr. (Sheil) had, on a former occasion, moved without notice, for a return of the number of such bills, and also moved for the names of the attorneys by whom they had been fled. On that occasion the Recorder of the City of Dublin objected to the Motion, because the names of attorneys ought not, as he alleged, to be included. He (Mr. Sheil) then withdrew his Motion, and gave notice of it. He afterwards allowed it to drop, in consequence of the pressure of other business which preceded it, and told the learned Sergeant opposite, and the Member for the University of Dublin, that he
 607 v. Evening Mail 608 "To the Rev. Mr. Thompson. "Long Orchard, Oct. 12, 1835. "MY DEAR SIR.—It is perfectly true that I wrote to you that in the event of the Government expressing a determination to abide by Lord Stanley's measure, I could not complain if you adopted proceedings against me. "The Bill proposed last session has been rejected by the Lords, but that some such adjustments of the unfortunate tithe question will be brought forward at the commencement of next session (whatever party be in power) seems obvious The Government have not intimated any intention to retain Lord Stanley's plan; a great change is inevitable. Under these circumstances, I submit to your consideration whether the delay of a few months on the part of he clergy be not more advisable than die immediate exercise of their existing legal right to tithes. I am not insensible to she hardship of their condition produced by the
 609 "Parliament must meet early in February, and the question must then be settled; no legal proceedings could be effectual before that period. It will be for you to decide how far it will be advisable to involve yourself and me in litigation injurious to both of us, when the settlement of all demands by the Legislature is so close at hand. "At the same time I think it but justice to add, that in the event of your proceeding against me, I shall not regard such a step upon your part as a severe or unjustifiable one; although being myself unable to collect tithes, and being placed in peculiar political circumstances, I indulge in the hope that you will not consider it unreasonable that I should have recourse to such expedients of procrastination as the law supplies. "You must be aware that as Member for the county of Tipperary, I must elect between the payment of tithes and the loss of my seat; perhaps this consideration may induce you to delay for some months longer. "I really do not know to what extent I am liable to your demands; most of the leases were executed before Lord Stanley's Act; and—property, in your parish, has been so subdivided, that to determine who are, and who are not liable, would be a task of some difficulty. "Whatever course you adopt, I trust that no interruption will take place in the kindly feeling that ought to exist between neighbours, and that our legal differences will not be embittered by any personal animosity" "Your's, very truly, "R. L. SHEIL." 610 Shaw; 611 The Standard noscitur à sociis,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not like to use private letters; it was very improper to make public charges out of them, He was a Member of a Committee to frame a law, and was partly the author of a law that prevented any officer from
 603 Wynn: 604
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had called on his Majesty's Government to give an opinion, and he, as a Member of that Government, would declare a distinct and decided opinion for himself, and he believed he might add for his colleagues. It would then be for the House and the country to decide between them and the right hon. Gentleman. But first he begged, in the name of his right hon. Friend, (Mr. O'Loughlin) to repel the insinuation of having acted with disingenuousness, or of having, on the present occasion, done anything beyond vindicat-
 601 602
 Mr. Wakley  rose for the purpose of presenting a Petition from the Rev. J. A. Emerton, master of a school at Camberwell, and curate of that parish, on the subject of the Charter to be granted for a Metropolitan University. The petitioner had. understood that it was intended to limit degrees to the pupils of only two schools, by which the interests of private schoolmasters would be materially injured. In April last this House had addressed the Crown by a large majority in favour of a charter to the London University, a grant which was solicited from all parts of the country, on account of the manner in which Dissenters were excluded from academical honours at Oxford and Cambridge. He should be opposed to any change which would place Oxford and Cambridge in the hands of persons hostile to those universities; he wished to see abuses corrected, but not the universities subverted; but he wished to know whether,
 532
 Mr. Finn  complained that the system of favouritism to Orangemen in Ireland had gone so far under the old police system as to allow persons who had committed arson and murder to escape.
 Colonel Verner  merely rose to notice what fell from the hon. Member for Meath, with regard to an outrage which he stated to have taken place at Ballybay, in the county of Monaghan, on the 14th or 15th of last month, when, as the hon. Member observed, a body of Orangemen attacked the Roman Catholics indiscriminately coming to the market, beat and abused
 549
 Mr. Ward  stated that he rose to propose a number of resolutions respecting divisions in the House, which were founded on the report of the Select Committee which sat on the subject last year. The object was, the giving publicity to the names of the Members who voted in each division. He thought, as well for the sake of themselves as for their constituents, that hon. Members should be prepared to give an account of their stewardship, and to let the public know how they voted on each occasion. Undoubtedly, the most important part of the business of a Member of that House was voting in conformity with the wishes of those who had sent him to represent them. Every hon. Gentleman who heard him was aware that he was subject to the tribunal of public opinion, and each should be prepared to bow to it. What had recently been allowed to be done with reference to the debates, ought equally to be permitted in the case of divisions. Lists were now published of the persons who voted, but these were constantly found to contain inaccuracies, and all that was wished was, to cambine with the accuracy of the debates the accuracy of the account of the divisions. One could not be perfect without the other. It was not sufficient for a constituency to know how their representative spoke, but they should also be aware how he voted. The report of the Committee was presented last year, and it suggested a plan of taking divisions by means of double nominees and clerks, and that a second lobby should be built. At the suggestion, however, of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the matter was postponed until this year, as the lobby could not be then conveniently built. The second lobby, however, was now erected, and it was only for the House to carry out their own resolutions, and adopt the mode of division recommended by the Committee, and sanctioned by the House last year. The first resolution that he had to propose was, that on any division the House should be entirely cleared, and that the ayes and noes should be sent into different lobbies. The
 563
 Sir John Hobhouse  remarked that at present a Member might always excuse himself to his constituents for his voting, and impute it to the mistakes of newspapers. If errors should occur in the proposed system, it would be easy to correct them in the votes on the following day. He did not think that so much evil arose from a single error in a list of a division as hon. Gentlemen supposed, as constituents would generally form an estimate of their representative from the general tenor of a Member's votes.
 Mr. Jervis  was glad that his hon. Friend near him had brought this subject before the House, because it was clear that there was something going on of which the Commissioners knew nothing. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wynn), although he was one of the Commissioners,
 561
 Sir Robert Bateson , after the very extraordinary speech of the noble Lord, could not be silent. As an Irish Gentleman, he could not sit still and hear the Irish Magistrates compared to those of Bow-street. Nor could he allow the assertion of the noble Lord, that the opposition to the measure was the result of party policy and feeling, to go uncontradicted. In the very temperate, and able speech of the hon. Member for Monaghan, there was not a syllable that could be construed into
 538 gendarmerie loud cries of "Name, name
 Sir Robert Bateson  begged distinctly to be understood that he had not intended, in any observation that fell from him, to reflect in the slightest degree upon the conduct of Sir Frederick Stoven.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that it was rather strange that the hon. Member for Liskeard should take so much pains to find fault with a Commission appointed by the present Government, which he so strenuously supported. He himself (Sir R. Inglis) was, he believed, the only Tory on the Commission. The present Speaker was at the head of it, and the Commission, he believed, originated with Lord Brougham. The accounts, too, which had been complained of, were audited by three Gentlemen perfectly competent to such a duty, namely, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. W. Brougham, and Mr. Protheroe. From time to time there had served on the Commission men of all others the best qualified for such an object. The Earl of Aberdeen had been once on the Commission, and so had Earl Spencer, Sir James Mackintosh, Mr. Hallam, and Mr. Allen. These were men likely to know what would best promote the interest of the profession and the public. As to removing the Records, it had been decided by the authority of one of the Judges who attended on the Commission at the Speaker's house, that it was not competent to the Commissioners to remove them without an Act of Parliament.
 Sir Robert Inglis  stated that the plan had been tried, as appeared from the Journals, in 1834, when it was found that names had been inserted by mistake.
 Sir Robert Peel  saw no objection to try the experiment, and if it was found that much time was consumed in divisions, he had no doubt that the House would feel disposed to return to the old system. If the new plan did not occupy much time, the House would act upon it. It would be necessary by this plan, however, to have four clerks in constant attendance, and they might pass eight or ten days without having one division, therefore the expense of it would not be inconsiderable.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to say one word in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Waterford, although a move convenient opportunity would be afforded him to enter upon the question fully on the second reading of the Bill. Supposing he (Sir Robert Peel) was taking a different course from what he did in 1814, still if a change of circumstances and subsequent experience led him to think that a different course was desirable, he should, without the least apprehension of any charge of inconsistency, adopt that altered course. The question was not, whether a public man changed his views, but whether there was any interested motive for such a change. If there was, then the change might be censured; but if there was not, then he must say he could not feel the force of that satire which the hon. Gentleman had directed against him, for having (suppose he had), after a lapse of years, more extended experience, and subsequent consideration, changed his opinion as to the policy best to be adopted. That was what he should feel supposing the charge of inconsistency applied to him. But he thought, while the hon. Gentleman was speaking, that he was not subject to that charge. To the best of his recollection, the principle of the Act which he (Sir Robert Feel) introduced on this subject in 1814, expressly gave to the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland the power of these appointments. He was not responsible for the subsequent Acts that were passed; but the principle of the Act which he introduced was precisely the same as that which had been adopted by the noble Lord. He confessed his confidence in the Bill would have been greatly shaken, unless it preserved to the Lord-lieutenant the power of appointing persons to the constabulary force, and also the power of removal. Those powers had been given by the Bill he himself introduced; and he saw by the report that some of the constables went under the designation of "Peelers," which confirmed him in the recollection of the nature of his Bill, showing that they must have owed their appointments to him, and not to the magistrates.
 Sir Robert Peel  rose principally for the purpose of confirming, which he did with the utmost satisfaction, the testimony which was borne by the noble Lord (Russell) to the high character and great military reputation of Colonel Shaw Kennedy. His first communication with Colonel Shaw was at a time when he had no personal acquaintance with him whatever; although he knew that he was distinguished in the highest degree for his gallantry in the field, and remembered that he had superintended the whole of the extensive arrangements which it was necessary to make on the return of the British army of occupation from France. On that occasion, too, he recollected that Colonel Shaw had exhibited so nice a power
 543 544 545
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, the publications alluded to by the hon. Member had, under the sanction of Parliament, been distributed to the Members of both Houses, who had been themselves to blame if they suffered the Commissioners to pursue an erroneous system so long, yearly reports of their expenditure and progress having been regularly laid before them. He was himself a member of the Commission, and he knew that the Commissioners had frequently laid before Parliament their opinion of the necessity of building a new Record Office. They had not authority to build any office, or to remove the Records any where. He was prepared to take his share of the responsibility of having a plan made for removing those shelves, and enlarging the building. The hon. Member who brought forward this Motion was wholly misinformed as to the Portuguese work of which he had spoken. He could only say, as one of the Commissioners, that he never saw or heard of such a work; and, as to the book published by Mr. Cooper, that publication took place solely at Mr. Cooper's own expense, and not at the expense of the Commission. The hon. Member should, therefore, have informed himself better on this point before he made his statement. The Commission, he believed, was first suggested many years ago by Lord Bexley, but not carried into effect fully until a much more recent period, under the present Commissioners. Without at all including himself, he believed there were men upon the Commission whose names were a sufficing guarantee for adopting the best means to accomplish the object for which they had been appointed. Sir James Mackintosh, Mr. Hallam, and Mr. Allen were on the Commission, and the late Earl Spencer and Mr. Dundas, the Lord Register of Scotland, were constant attendants at the meetings of the Commissioners. These were Gentlemen who devoted all their attention to the subject, and who could not fail to bring about a very satisfactory result. With respect to the fees charged, the Commissioners had nothing to do with them; but he must say, that he had never heard of any abuse on the part of those who were entitled to those fees.
 Lord Clements  denied, that taking from the Magistracy of Ireland the power of appointing constables would degrade them in any way. In the province in which he resided, the Magistrates, so far from having any objection to the change, had voluntarily given up the power of appointment to Major Warburton, the Chief of the Police. He was informed that a similar step had been taken in Munster. If, therefore, the measure were at once advantageous to the community, and agreeable to the Magistrates, what more need be urged in its favour? How stood the case in this city? Was the appointment of the police vested in the hands of the Magistrates of Bow-street? No: the power was lodged in the hands of those who were to govern and command the force. He had never, however, heard that Major Warburton had hesitated to take into consideration the recommendation of the local Magistracy; and the Gentlemen opposite, therefore, had no right to suppose their representations would be unattended to. He thought it was a calumny upon Government to say, that they wished to degrade the gentry of Ireland, and he believed the opposition to the measure was the effect of party policy and party tactics.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he should not think it necessary to trouble the House at any great length upon the subject which he was about to bring under their consideration, because the Bill, for the introduction of which he should move, differed but little from that which he brought forward last Session, and which passed that House without a division, and, he might say, with almost the unanimous assent of every Member. Why that measure did not pass the other branch of the Legislature he had
 533 534 535 l. s.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he would trespass on the indulgence of the House for a few moments. There were two reasons why he did not speak before; the first was that the question involved so many legal niceties and subtleties, that could be better handled by experienced lawyers, and the elucidation of which he could safely leave in the hands of his right hon. Friend the Attorney-General for Ireland. The second was, that as reference was made to his own conduct he wished to defer any observations of his till the result of the decisions of the Court of Exchequer were known. He should rejoice at the degree of impunity which he enjoyed still, for he was not unfrequently told that from the case of Knox  v. "Me—me adsum qui feci—In me convertite ferrum." "William the 4tb, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, King, defender of the faith and so forth,
 605 "Witness, Henry Joy, Esq., Chief Baron, Jan. 15 1835. J. FARRON. "R. W. Osborne, attorney." "Navan Petty Sessions, March 23, 1835. "Sir—We have been this day applied to in Sessions to direct the Police to assist in the execution of a writ, the copy of which we inclose; not being certain of our jurisdiction in the matter, we are anxious to be directed as to the course we should pursue. "We have, &c., (Signed) "P. P. METGE, J.P. "R. P. Q. HAMILTON, J.P." "Lieut.-Colonel Sir Wm, Gosset." "Dublin Castle, 26th March, 1835. "GENTLEMEN—I have received and laid before the Lord-lieutenant your letter of the 23rd instant, inclosing the copy of a writ, in the execution of which you have been applied to in sessions to direct the police to assist, and requesting to be instructed as to the course you should pursue, not being certain of your jurisdiction in the matter. In reply, I am to acquaint you that the law adviser does not think that the police should be employed to execute process of this nature, nor have you any Jurisdiction to direct them to do so. If
 606 "I have, &c. (Signed) "W. GOSSET. "The Magistrates at Petit Sessions, Navan."
 Lord Pollington  said, that the House, he was sure, would feel much indebted to the noble Lord for calling their attention to this subject—of no less importance to this country than to the fate of that heroic people of whom the noble Lord was the able and the constant advocate. The apathy of this country towards the cause of Poland was most injurious to its own interests—permitting Russia, as it had done, to take possession of Wallachia and Moldavia. Since the last Session of Parliament, he (Lord Pollington) had been to the Sclavonian possessions of Austria, and he could assure the House that there was not a Dalmatian Greek who was not most anxious to throw off his allegiance to Catholic Austria, and, in obedience to the advice of his priests, become a serf of Russia, to whom he looked up as to his national and most powerful protector.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the effect on British interests of the policy pursued by Russia. He felt that he laboured under many disadvantages, arising not only from his own inadequacy to discharge the task, but also from the great difficulty of inducing hon. Members to turn their attention to our foreign policy as respected Russia. No question could be of greater importance than that now before the House. It affected all our most essential interests—it affected our national honour—it affected our naval supremacy—it affected our commercial interests—it affected our station, our influence in Europe, and the security of our possessions in India. There was one misapprehension against which he was anxious to guard. Some Gentlemen well knowing the warm interest, the enthusiasm, if any were pleased to call it so, which he took in the Polish nation, might imagine that, in making this motion on the subject of Russia, as Russia was the enemy of Poland, his object was merely to call attention to the Polish nation. He begged, therefore, to state distinctly in the outset that that was not his chief object. His object was greater and more extensive; and if he felt it necessary to make this explana-
 615 616 617 618 619 620 621 622 Hear. hon. Member; 623 624 625 l. 626 627 628 could 629 630 631 632 espionnage, 633 634 The British and Foreign Review, 635 cordon sanitaire. 636 637 638 materiel materiel, materiel 639 primâ facie 640
 Lord Dudley Stuart  replied. It was not his fault if he had been compelled to dilate on the subject which he felt it his duty to bring before the House, for, of course, it extended as Russia herself extended her frontiers. He was not the advocate of war; but it did not therefore follow that he should not be the advocate of precaution. The best way to avert war was to be prepared to meet it. The hon. Member for Bath said, he had no fear of Russia. Neither had he, but still he thought it the best policy not to despise an enemy. He did not think the power of Russia so formidable as that this country should quail before it. If now it assumed a haughty tone he did not fear but we could crush it; but if we permitted it to seize upon the Dardanelles, and to destroy the independence of Turkey, it would then become formidable. Ministers could, if they pleased, in the strength of their power, withhold the documents which he sought for, but he did not think that they could consistently refuse them. When a motion was formerly made for the production of the treaty it was said by the noble Lord that it would not be fair to produce the treaty without the correspondence; but now the treaty was offered, yet the correspondence was refused. This proceeding was very unintelligible, and he hoped the noble Lord would accede to his motion.
 Mr. Hawes  seconded the motion. The present request was in order that the public might obtain a building of the highest class. He was anxious, before any exhibition took place, that there should be an understanding that the whole of the plans were to be brought together.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  merely rose to say a few words relative to the sentiments which his hon. Friend who had just sat down entertained on the subject of the Prussian commercial league. How it had found its way into this debate was a mystery to him. His noble Friend who introduced it had, some how or other, discovered that Russia was at the bottom of it. He had seen that opinion expressed in a remarkably absurd article appended to one of the numbers of the  Portfolio, 654 655 656 657
 Mr. Robinson  was very much inclined
 653
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  said, he did not wish for war, nor did he believe the people of England wished for it. The House was indebted to the noble Lord for bringing this subject under their consideration, but
 644 645
 Dr. Bowring  thought that no one could mistake the high and generous sentiments which had given rise to the Motion of the noble Lord, but at the same time be thought the noble Lord himself was mistaken in his views of the extent of the powers of Russia. It was to be regretted that such statements should go forth to the world uncontradicted. It was his (Dr. Bowring's) conviction that the power of Russia had been very much overrated. On paper her armies were doubtless immense, but she had never, even at the time when she struggled for existence, been able to bring more than 300,000 men into the field. The Nobles, too, were beginning to evince a desire for improvement. He felt for the situation of Poland, but would be sorry if the question of Polish independence were to be decided by whether the stipulations of a treaty, in which certain Monarchs bound themselves to maintain a particular constitution in Poland, had been complied with. He thought those rights rested on a much broader basis, and that she must look to the future for her restoration to liberty, when those more extended rights were generally admitted
 Mr. Roebuck  did not concur m the opinion which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Birmingham, with respect to the feeling entertained by the people of England as to going to war. He did not agree in the opinions that had been expressed as to the interest which this country had in interfering with the foreign policy of other European nations. He knew the notion that prevailed as to the necessity of preserving the balance of power in Europe, and the duty of this country to interfere for that purpose, but in that political notion he did not by any means concur. He was well aware that this doctrine was not a popular one in that House; but, though it might be new there, it was not new outside of the House, and it was one which he was glad to perceive was very rapidly and extensively gaining ground. In considering the motion before the House, they might be led into a discussion which might, it was said, lead to a war. With respect to what had been said by the noble Lord who had introduced the motion, and by the hon. Member for Birmingham, as to the propriety of denouncing war against Russia, he certainly did not concur; but he equally differed from the moderate and cautious tone which the noble Lord who spoke on the part of his Majesty's Government had adopted, and who seemed to tell them that they should cower before the power of Russia; who would make them believe that they were afraid to talk outright, or to take a bold and fearless part whenever it should be necessary to vindicate the honour, the pride, or the national
 662 663 664 665
 Mr. Hume  said, that this information was very satisfactory. He hoped the example would have imitators. While on this subject, he must express the high respect which he had always felt for a noble Lord (the Marquis of Camden) who had given up that which would have produced, by this time, above 250,000 l.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  thought that
 667 668
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, he rose to endeavour to persuade his noble Friend not to press his motion. In doing this, however, he would observe that no man could doubt for a moment his sincerity, when he declared that under other circumstances, at any sacrifice, he would grant the publication of the correspondence if it would lead to any beneficial result, but the time had gone by when it could be productive of good. With regard to his own opinions, whatever he had uttered in respect to this question, he would not recant one word; his feelings remained unaltered as to the treatment of Poland. With respect to Turkey, he would not admit that this country ought not to interfere except in questions purely British. Would it be said that it was right to stand by and allow one country to take possession of another? But he had sufficient confidence in the prudence, the liberality, and the firmness of his noble Friend to know that, if it became necessary (he hoped it would not), this country would be able to preserve the independence of that country, on which the independence of Europe mainly rested
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  rose to second the Motion. He was sure the House could not but admire the ability and good feeling which pervaded the important statements which the noble Lord had that night laid before it. If this country had, as she ought to have done, put on the appearance of war, there would be no occasion for war now. Now we must go to war. He said that if the Government did go to war the people of England would support them. It had been stated that the day was passed for vindicating the treaty of Vienna. If so, there was an awful responsibility on the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, for it was by his hand that Poland fell. Sir Edward Codrington, with his fleet, could have saved Poland in 1831, had he been permitted by the noble Lord to enter the Russian ports, which he could easily have done. In 1833 the Sultan asked the noble Lord for a fleet from England, to aid him in putting down the rebellious Pacha of Egypt, but the noble Lord said "No; we have one fleet at Lisbon,
 641 642 No. 643
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was ready to accede to the proposal that a place should be appointed for the public exhibition of the plans, but when the request was made to suspend the proceedings, he must say, that the exhibition was no act of the Government at all. He was not prepared to agree to suspend all proceedings until the exhibition had taken place.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had to move for a Treasury minute. A pension of 3,000 l.
 Mr. Ewart  rejoiced that he had that evening heard those principles advocated in a British House of Commons which had been maintained in the United States of America. He regretted, nevertheless, the course which this debate had taken, and the speech of the hon. Member for Birming-
 669
 Mr. Hall  said, that in justice to the architects,-he must submit to the House the Motion of which he had given notice. It was, that previous to any of the plans for the two Houses of Parliament being laid before the Committee appointed to consider and
 614
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, he was
 658 659
 Sir Robert Inglis  was understood to say, that in the principles laid down by the right bon. President of the Board of Trade, he entirely concurred, but he had not expected to hear from that quarter such observations as the last words which fell from him. His right hon. Friend, near whom he sat, had, on the first night of the Session, stated that more than a common sense of interest ought to impel all the countries of Europe to the maintenance of peace—that they ought to be actuated by a common sense of moral obligation to do all in their power to effect a continuance of tranquillity, and he (Sir R. Inglis) felt that there was no man capable of estimating the value of that consideration who would hazard the provocation of war, by the indulgence of language, which, without effecting what we desired with respect to Poland, might tend to irritate Russia. He felt as deeply for the interests of Poland as any man, and while he concurred with the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, in the reasons which induced him to with hold his consent to the production of the remonstrances addressed on the part of Poland to the Emperor of Russia, he trusted he should not be asking too much in imploring the noble Lord to lose no opportunity of reiterating those remonstrances whenever he could, not only to Russia, but also to Austria. He implored the noble Lord never to lose sight of the importance of testifying, not by idle demonstrations of war without the intention of carrying them into effect—not by a still idler recourse to bitter language in that House — but by proper and legitimate means—that we, as a nation, felt ourselves bound as far as we could to guarantee Poland that condition to which she was entitled.
 Sir Stratford Canning  differed from some of the doctrines which had been propounded, particularly that it was not the interest of this country to interfere to preserve the balance of power in Europe, He thought it would not be safe, at this time of day, to set out upon a new principle, and set aside that policy which had been the policy of this country for the last two centuries. It would have been hardly safe, after the peace of Europe had been broken up by the French Revolution, that we should have abstained from interference in the relations of Europe, and leave those great interests to be settled and determined by nations not always in harmony with each other. It was our duty to interfere. It was our interest to see that the balance of power was preserved. It was necessary that this country should interfere and see that the security of her own interests was preserved, as well, also, as to maintain the interests of those countries who had sided with her in the great struggle which bad taken place. This was his opinion, and he felt quite certain that the opinions of the House would go with him upon that point. At that advanced hour he did not intend to trespass on the attention of the House at any length. What had induced him to rise at all was the reference that had been made to a country with which, in the course of the negotiations that had taken place, he had been connected. He felt the delicacy, in the situation in which he stood, of going into that part of the subject before the House. With respect to what had been said at the other side of the House, he certainly fell much pleasure at hearing that the policy of the Government would be to protect our interests, but, at the same time, as far as possible, to contribute to-
 666
 Viscount Palmerston  rose and said, whatever might be the effect of the speech of his noble Friend who had made this motion, and however he might agree with some parts of that speech, and disagree with others, there were, at least, two sentiments expressed by the two hon. Gentlemen who had followed the noble Lord in the present debate, with which he could not agree. With respect to those sentiments so expressed, he (Lord Palmerston) must take leave to give utterance to his most entire dissent. The hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Attwood) had expressed his anxious desire to see this country engaged, as soon as possible, in a war. In that wish he could by no means concur. On the contrary, he wished that this country should continue at peace, and he firmly hoped and believed that peace would continue, But if the day should arrive when, by the aggression of other powers, this country should find itself engaged in a war, he certainly could not concur in the fervent wish of the hon. Member for Southampton, (Mr. B. Hoy) that against the combination of other powers this country should have the good fortune (according to the hon. Member) to stand alone and unassisted. He did hope, if this country became involved in a war, that it would be found that the friendships we had formed during a period of peace—that the respect, confidence, and goodwill which the integrity, dignity, and honesty of our policy had created in the minds of other nations,—would accompany us into that war, and that our cause being, as it must be, just, we should not only be supported by the sympathy of all mankind, but be backed by the active exertions of faithful' and powerful allies. His noble Friend who had introduced this motion, had commenced by expressing his opinion that the subject to which he was about to draw the attention of the House was one
 646 647 648 649 650 Dudley Stuart 651 Blonde 652
 Viscount Sandon  regretted that the noble Lord had not consented to produce the correspondence relative to the treaty of Hoonkiar Skelessi, because, without that correspondence, the treaty itself could not be understood in all its bearings. To the treaty itself he did not attach much importance, except in so far as it afforded evidence of the growing influence of Russia. If, in the year 1833, the noble Lord had not driven Turkey to rely on the assistance of so near a neighbour and perilous a friend as Russia, that empire would not now have occupied its present commanding position. Russia must always, from the mere circumstance of its proximity,
 660 l. 661
 Lord George Lennox  presented petitions from Worthing, Shoreham, and other places in favour of the London and Brighton (Stevenson's) Railway.
 Lord George Lennox  said, that notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, he should persist in moving the second reading of the London and Brighton Railway Bill. He thought that the greatest injustice would be done to individuals by postponing the second reading of this Bill for eight days. He could not conceive what object could be gained by such a postponement. It should be recollected that the Bill, after it was read a second time, could not go to a Committee for ten days. By delaying the second reading for eight days an advantage was given to rival parties, and an opportunity afforded to them to oppose the Bill, It was exceedingly hard that parties should be thus thrown back after they had complied with all the standing orders and rules of the House regarding the introduction of such Bills. If they allowed this Bill to go to a Committee, he (Lord G. Lennox) was sure he should be able to show that Stevenson's line was the best that could be adopted. The noble Lord concluded by moving the second reading of the Bill.
 Lord George Lennox  repeated his determination to press the second reading of the bill on the present occasion. Great inconvenience and much injury would result from the proposed delay, unless, indeed, he were assured, that in the interval which it was proposed should elapse before the second reading, no proceeding should be allowed on the part of those who were opposed to the bill. A public meeting had taken place at the Town-hall, at Brighton, at which Sir J. Rennie's plan was declared impracticable, and consequently abandoned. Subsequently Mr. Stephenson's plan, the plan embodied in this bill, was taken up; and now that it was brought before Parliament, Sir J. Rennie suddenly started up with his rejected plan again; and the consequence of the postponement of the second reading of the present bill would be to enable Sir J. Rennie to introduce his plan to the detriment of Mr. Stephenson. If it were understood that during the postponement, Sir J. Rennie should not be allowed to take any step, he should not object to the amendment; but unless such an understanding were distinctly entered into, he must now press the second reading.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he was in favour of any course which would tend to allow sufficient time for the consideration of this great measure. If the commercial and manufacturing interests have demanded that the commutation of tithe awarded by the Commissioners should be vested entirely in a money-rent, he thought that powerful portion of the community, between whom and the manufacturing interests there certainly was a frequent collision, would have said they were hardly treated, and that it was not altogether fair that the whole weight of that powerful body (the Church) should be thrown on that side which would operate against the agricultural interests. Still the manufacturing interests had a perfect right to demand something in their favour; and what he should suggest would be, whether it would not be possible to decide that there should be an equal division of the point in dispute,  i. e.
 Mr. Pemberton  observed, that the dif-
 693
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  was for the postponement of the second reading, on the ground that hon. Members had not
 694
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  thought there was a necessity for immediately going into a discussion of the Bill. He had received a letter that day, the writer of which expressed an opinion which, though by no means flattering to the noble Lord opposite, as the framer of the Bill, he should state to the House. "The Bill (observed his correspondent) reflected no great credit on its framers; it contained much that was highly objectionable. This would, no doubt, be corrected when the Bill went into Committee; and, therefore, the sooner the principle of it was discussed and disposed of the better." In that opinion he (Sir M. W. Ridley) entirely concurred.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to know whether it was the noble Lord's intention to enter into a discussion of the principle of the Bill at that moment; or whether he wished it to be read a second time merely for the purpose of supplying some omissions in it.
 Mr. Pemberton  said, that the great object of the measure was to effect with certainty and with unanimity the commutation of tithe for a permanent rent-charge. He thought that the Bill of the noble Lord ought to secure at least this great advantage, but it appeared to him, that so far from finding in this measure any certainty in effecting this object, it would at the end of the five years looked forward to by the Bill, and ten times five years, be quite problematical whether one-half the land subject to tithes would have been at all affected by this Bill. He had stated some time back, that if the principle of compulsion was to be adopted in carrying this measure into execution, it should be the compulsion of the Legislature, and not of individuals. The Bill before the House professed to effect the commutation OF tithes in one or other of three several modes. The first mode was by means of voluntary agreements between the tithe payer and the tithe receiver. The second mode proposed was by agreements entered into by certain proportions of the tithe receivers and the tithe payers, so as to be binding upon the whole. And the third method suggested was by the interposition of the tithe commissioners themselves, in case such interposition should be called for by either of the parties not coming to an agreement amongst themselves. With regard to the proposed voluntary agreement between the tithe owners and the laud owners, the law as it at present stood enabled such parties not only to
 699 700
 An hon. Member  said, that the right hon. Baronet seemed to have omitted from his calculation the expenses of collection, which frequently amounted to from 25 to 40 per cent. [ "No, no." 706
 Mr. Hodges  defended the measure. He considered the additional charge of 15 s.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that it was not his intention to go at any length into the details of this measure, but only to advert to particular points. It was his desire, and he was satisfied it was the anxious wish of the noble Lord opposite, and of every other Member of that House, that whatever was done for effecting a commutation of tithes should be done in an amicable spirit. He fully concurred with the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor-General, that there were almost interminable difficulties in the way of effecting any satisfactory arrangement of this question, and it was because of those difficulties that he felt it to be essential that the commutation should be voluntary, for by a voluntary commutation alone could they relieve themselves from the difficulties which lay in the way of anything like a just settlement of every case of tithes. The hon. Member for Chester had pointed out several omissions in this Bill, and enumerated the tithes which he conceived ought to be got rid of. The great advantage of voluntary commutation was, that by means of it all these intricate questions could be easily settled, although, they could not be arranged by any compulsory system which they might adopt. All such tithes as those on fish, fishing, mills, and, in different parts of the country, houses, could be more readily commuted by agreement between the parties themselves than in any other way; but, for his part, he did not believe it possible that the noble Lord could make any general compulsory arrangement which would meet the particular circumstances of every case. It was for this and other reasons, which were not necessary now to be noticed, that he had been disposed to
 709 710
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the House ought to have some information as to the grounds of making that a permanent duty which, from the period of its imposition, had been only annual. The preamble of the bill, which stated that doubts had arisen as to the right to levy the duty after the 5th of July, 1835, was perfectly unfounded, for nothing could be clearer than that the duty could not be levied after the expiration of the Act under which it had been granted. The subject admitted of no doubt.
 Mr. Francis Baring  assured the right hon. Gentleman that an impression did exist, till recently, that the duty might be levied, notwithstanding the expiration of the annual Act, and-that to remove all doubt, and clear the matter up, the present bill was brought in. As to the right hon. Gentleman's objection to rendering that perpetual which had been hitherto granted annually, if he would take into account that the duty amounted to no more than 10,000 l.
 Lord Granville Somerset  could not concur with his right hon. Friend in thinking that all railways—no matter how great their commercial imporiance—no matter how beneficial they might be to the community at large—should be postponed for an entire Session. He must say, that he viewed with great suspicion the proposition for putting off the second reading of the railway bills which stood for that evening. That delay gave to rival opponents the opportunity of making still greater opposition. He thought that it would be a great hardship on parties where there was no rival line, and where they had complied with all the standing orders, to be put off in this way for another week.
 Lord John Russell  said, that his object was to have the Bill, with the whole of its provisions and amendments, printed before it went into Committee, It would be a fortnight tomorrow since he had stated fully to the House the outline of the measure. He had had a great many reports from different parts of the country, and had received various letters from Somersetshire and other counties, stating the opinions of different classes of people on the measure he had proposed. He did not, therefore, think it could be fairly said that its provisions were wholly unknown, either to the House or the country. He certainly thought sufficient time should be allowed before the House resolved itself into a Committee of the whole House on the Bill, He should fix such a time as he thought would be convenient to the House; but should it be considered that the interval he proposed was not long enough, he could have no objection to postpone the Committee to a future day. There was a
 692
 Lord John Russell  congratulated the House that the discussion on this Bill had been managed with great fairness by all who had taken a share in it. He could assure hon. Members that the Bill had been framed by himself and his colleagues in the same spirit in which it had been hitherto discussed. Some hon. Gentlemen might say, like his hon. Friend, the Member for Wiltshire that the Bill was a Clergyman's Bill, although, being just, he did not mean to object to it on that score. Others might say, like the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, that it was a Landlord's Bill, and therefore gave undue advantage to that portion of the community. He could assure the House that the Bill had been framed without any bias to either of those parties; that it had been drawn up in its present shape in order to produce a fair settlement of a question which was the cause of much dissension and evil; that it had been intended, on the one hand, to secure to the clergy a fair income proportional to what they had a right to claim as due to their rights and position in the country, and, on the other, to free both the landlord and the occupying tenant from a burden which was grievous to those who were anxious to employ their skill and capital on the land. Having framed the Bill in this view, he was not surprised to find that the objections urged against the Bill from different quarters of the House were so various and contradictory to each other. His hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, objected to the Bill as being compulsory. The hon. and learned Member for Ripon objected to the Bill because it was not compulsory enough. One hon. Gentleman considered it too favourable to the tithe-owner, another considered it too favourable to the tithe-payer. Thus, as might naturally be expected from the Bill being drawn up without any bias, it was opposed by the extreme parties on both sides—a proof, as he contended, that those who had steered a middle course between them had devised a measure which ultimately would be satisfactory to all parties. The right hon. Baronet the Member for
 722 723 724 725
 Lord John Russell  was anxious to have the Bill read a second time as soon as possible, as there would be then more time to consider its details with all the attention they deserved. He did not pretend to say, in reply to the objection which had been read by the hon. Baronet opposite, that the language in which the Bill was drawn was strictly in accordance with Parliamentary custom and usage in such cases. The form in which certain provisions of the Bill had been submitted to the House might, no doubt, be altered. He claimed not the merit of being able to draw up Acts of Parliament in strictly technical phraseology, for he knew it was a task of very considerable difficulty, requiring a great deal of practice and experience. In this respect, he doubted not, but that improvements might be effected. Nor did he mean to contend that there were not omissions in the Bill which might be supplied when it went into Committee. But to the principle of the Bill he adhered. Nor was he disposed to consider the propriety of admitting any alterations into its main provisions until it had gone into Committee.
 Lord John Russell  thought it would be an extremely inconvenient practice, if a Bill were read a second time, and it was to be considered that the House had not affirmed its principle. In the present case, if the House permitted the Bill to be read a second time, he should certainly assume that, in doing so, they had affirmed the general principle—that there should be a commutatation of tithe into a rent-charge. But whether the general principle should be carried further—whether that commutation should be compulsory or voluntary—was another question to be decided after farther discussion. It was by no means at variance with the principle of the Bill that the commutation should be wholly compulsory, and it would be for the hon. Member, who thought it ought to be so, to show that, after the House had affirmed the general principle. The hon. Baronet opposite was, no doubt, as well prepared at the present moment to enter into a discussion of the principle of the Bill as he could be if the second reading or the affirmation of its general principle were postponed to some future day, as the "ancient and venerable" arguments with which the hon. Baronet would oppose it, had been for a long period marshalled in the hon. Baronet's mind, and frequently stated to the public.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  said, that he should not consider himself precluded by voting, as he intended to do, for the second reading of this Bill, from assenting to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman for the appointment of a Select Committee. He was glad that the Government had taken this matter up. It was absolutely necessary, not only for the protection of the country at large against the effects of wild schemes and improvident speculations, but for the protection of the speculators themselves against their own folly, that the House and the Government should interfere. He would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman the propriety of the Committee laying down some such rule as this—that no Railroad Bill should be passed without 5 percent. of the estimated expense being previously vested in Exchequer Bills, which would be some security to the public that the project would be completed. Such a condition would inflict no hardship on good  bonâ fide
 Colonel Sibthorp  was gratified to hear the right hon. Gentleman admit that the Government was responsible for the good conduct of railway bills. Every attorney's clerk should not be allowed to bring in a railway bill, and then go about canvassing Members for its support.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said that if the postponement were allowed, it should of course be understood that the committal of the bill should follow the second reading at the end of three days. If, upon a division, the House should determine that the second reading of this bill should be deferred for eight days, he hoped that all the other bills relating to railways, which stood for a second reading to-night, would be considered as being included in the decision.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  explained, that his object was to obtain necessary information, and the Committee would consider the best mode in which the whole subject could be treated. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that Parliament ought to be the court of last resort, and also in the view taken by the right hon. Baronet as to the points which the right hon. Baronet thought should be comprised in the reports to be made by List Committees on particular railroads. It might, how-
 685
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that it was not his intention to submit to the House any proposition on the part of the Government for preferring one line of railway to another, or even for pointing out any rule for the adoption of the House on the subject. It was his intention, however, in the course of the evening, to submit to the House the propriety of appointing a Select Committee to consider the best means that might be adopted by the House, or by the Committees sitting on railroad bills, for giving information to the House upon various points connected with the different railway bills that might be brought before the House. He had taken upon himself to propose this course to the House in consequence of the conversation that occurred some nights ago on the subject. It appeared to him that a strong impression then prevailed as to the necessity of adopting some mode of proceeding generally applicable to all those railway speculations which might be brought under its consideration. Many Gentlemen suggested different courses for adoption; but it seemed to him, and his own views had been confirmed by conversation with several Members since, that the principal point then in discussion would be best settled by a Committee upstairs in the first instance; their decision, of course, to be Subject to the subsequent consideration and adoption, if it should so think fit, by the House. His proposition then was, not that they should refer any particular railway or railways to any particular Committee, or that they should point out any particular course for Committees to follow with regard to railways, but it simply was to obtain the attendance in a Committee up stairs of those Gentlemen who took most interest in this important subject—he did not mean an interest in railroads, but in the good conduct of railway bills through that House, who might thus have the opportunity of deciding upon the various suggestions that might be laid before them, and who, he hoped, would be finally enabled to propose a plan to the House more worthy of its adoption, and which would tend more to secure a beneficial result than any resolu-
 678 679
 Mr. Harvey  remarked that the truth of the proverb which said "the race is not always to the swift," appeared to be as applicable to the members of that House as to the world in general. He (Mr. Harvey), only a few nights ago, had made a proposition to the House of a similar description to that now suggested by the right hon. President of the Board of Trade; but it was then treated with indifference—as a matter of no consequence or importance whatsoever. He was glad, however, to find that the suggestion which he had originated had been taken up by the Government, and that the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to adopt a step which should put a check upon inconsiderate speculation, and enable the House to give a due consideration to all measures of this description. All that he regretted upon the present occasion was, that the right hon. Gentleman had not yet found time, although it was a matter which came strictly within the business of that department of the Government over which he presided, to give to the subject all the consideration it required, and was therefore compelled to ask for a week to consider of his plans. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman could not require so long a time, if he applied himself to the matter with reasonable industry. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would be prepared to state his plans on Thursday next.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the Bill involved two principles—one relating to the commutation of tithes, and the other to appropriation. So far as the commutation of tithes was concerned, there was but one feeling, either in that House or in the country. It had long been the opinion of the people out of doors that a commutation of tithes ought to take place, and it was only within the walls of that House that any thing like tardiness on the subject had been exhibited. There could be no doubt that it was most important to have tithes commuted into a money payment. That was a point conceded by all parties; for so far as the principle of commutation was concerned they were all agreed. The question respecting the proposed appropriation was, however, a much more important one, and on that subject there was no unanimity to be found anywhere so perfect as in that House. There was there what he might call a marvellous
 711 712 713 l.
 Mr. Granville Harcourt  rose to present a petition from the Duke of Marlborough praying to be heard at the bar of the House by counsel against the passing of this bill, which has been introduced for the purpose of reimposing upon all pensions the tax, which was virtually repealed by an omission in the Pension Act of last Session. He reminded the House that all pensions now granted for great and illustrious military services were paid to their holders free from any deduction whatever, and argued that it never could have been the intention of the Parliament of Queen Anne, which granted to the great Duke of Marlborough, for his victories at Blenheim and Ramillies, the pension which his descendant now enjoyed, to diminish its amount by submitting it to a tax of 27½ per cent., which for some years past had been levied upon it. He did not know whether he was in order in offering to present this petition now. He had not been a party to the presentation of it. If his advice had been asked, he should rather have suggested the propriety of introducing some clause into the bill to exempt the case of the Duke of Marl-borough's pension from its operation. He hoped that this bill would, at any rate, offer an opening for some discussion of the noble Duke's case. Considering the change which had taken place in the value of money since the reign of Queen Anne, and considering also that the Parliament of that day evidently intended that the Duke of Marlborough should in all future time receive the full amount of the pension granted to the illustrious hero on whom it was first bestowed, free from all taxes and deductions whatsoever, he thought that the subject-matter of the petition was well entitled to dispassionate attention. Living as he did in Oxfordshire, and representing as he did that county, of which the park and castle of Blenheim were such distinguished ornaments, he might perhaps be forgiven for stating that that noble monument of national gratitude was in some risk of not being sufficiently attended to, and of not being kept in that state of,
 726
 Mr. Herbert Curteis  should feel it to be his duty to support, on principle, the proposition for postponement. It was of the highest importance that the House should not be hurried into untimely decisions upon bills of this description. One or two other lines of railway to Brighton had been projected independently of that contemplated in the present bill Why, then, should they blindly proceed to read this bill a second time, when afterwards they might very possibly discover that it would have been better to adopt one of the other plans.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member might adopt a more regular; mode of proceeding than that of presenting the petition.
 Mr. Benett  agreed with his hon. Friend, the Member for Maldon, in calling this measure the Clergyman's Bill; but still it was a just and honourable Bill, and was founded on sound principles. He presumed his hon. Friend called this the Clergyman's Bill, because it did justice to the tithe-holder, and it was on this ground he (Mr. Benett) agreed in the propriety of the term. He also agreed with his hon. Friend, that there was something obscure in that part of the Bill which related to taking the amount of tithes at between sixty and seventy-five per cent. of their valuation. He believed that the valuation was to be taken on the gross amount of the average of the last seven years, and twenty-five per cent. was to be remitted for the cost of collection and other incidental expenses. He was sure that all the English surveyors who knew anything of the subject would admit that twenty-five per cent. was rather too low than too high an estimate of the charge of collection. The Bill then would give to the clergy, as well as to the lay-owner of tithes their extreme value, and they probably would, under its operation, receive more than they did at present. As to the variation of fifteen per cent. his hon. Friend should remember that it was quite impossible to be accurate in everything. There were different modes of collecting tithes adopted in different parishes, and consequently there was a great difference in the expenses of the collection, and that varia-
 698 l. l.
 Mr. Benett  thought there was no ground whatever for the postponement which had been suggested. Such of his constituents as he had had the opportunity personally to explain the provisions of the Bill to, at once understood it. He had had a conversation respecting it with one beneficed clergyman, who had stated that he considered its provisions most favourable to the clergy. He (Mr. Benett) was for paying the utmost regard to the interests of the tithe owners; but he rather doubted whether the provisions of the Bill were not more favourable to them than justice demanded.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  thought that if the House interfered at all in bills of this description, it ought to be before the second reading, in order to protect the public against the severe inconvenience that would attend the promulgation of more than one line of road. As regarded the present bill, he should vote for suspending the second reading until some general plan of proceeding were adopted.
 Captain Alsager  felt entitled to say a few words, because he had charge of the second bill for a railway to Brighton, He thought that this second bill had a fair claim to the favourable consideration of the House, because in fact it was only a continuation to Brighton of a railway for which he last year obtained a bill, and which was to run from London to Croydon. In the course of a few days Re should have petitions in favour of the second bill from Brighton, Lewes, and Reigate. In the meantime he hoped the House would not consent to the second reading of the bill proposed by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was understood to say, that he must protest against the observations which had been made respecting the measure before the House. The hon. Gentleman had stated that the measure went to sacrifice all other interests to the advantage of the landlord. That doctrine had been often enunciated in that House, that any deduction from the amount of tithes was for the benefit of the landlord; but he must say, that in the observations which the hon. Member had thought fit to offer on the measure before the House a more un can did statement of the principle of any Bill had never been put forward. The hon. Member had said that this was a measure for the exclusive advantage of the landlords. It was quite clear, however, that the hon. Gentleman had considered the measure with very little attention, and certainly not with his usual ability. There was no such thing in the Bill as valuation in the first instance. The valuation was to be determined by the valuation for the previous seven years. One of the principles of the Bill was, that if any individual felt that he was overcharged, or that he was called, on to pay more than
 714 715 716
 Mr. Lennard  expressed some doubt whether it would not be found necessary to alter that provision of the noble Lord's Bill by which it was proposed to take the average of the last seven years as the basis for the commutation of tithes. Prices had been much higher on the average within the last seven than within the last twenty months, and, therefore, unless it could be. shown that tithes had fallen in a corresponding ratio, or that prices were likely again to rise, it would be unfair to take that average as the standard of valuation. He hoped an inquiry would be instituted into this point, as it would be very unfair that the landowner should be permanently charged with a higher rate of payment on a higher rate of price for the produce of his land than he had received. There was another point to which he wished to advert—namely, the adoption of the two different sums of sixty and seventy-five per cent, as the  minimum maximum. 697
 Mr. Gisborne  was of opinion that the proposition of his right hon. Friend would be one of the most violent proceedings that the House of Commons had ever adopted. His right hon. Friend had put a notice on the notice-book. He came down to move, but previous to doing so he proposed that the second reading of a number of Railway Bills which stood for that night should be postponed. Now, was it just towards the parties who had come down there prepared to have their bills read a second time to be thus put off for eight days? Such a delay tended to inflict a serious injury on them, by giving their opponents, where there were rival plans, a longer opportunity for petitioning against them as not having complied with the standing orders. These railway bills, if read a second time that night, would not go into Committee for ten days. His right hon. Friend's Select Committee could report in the space of four days. Why, then, should such a delay be interposed in the way of the progress of these bills? He certainly should divide the House on the Bill, the second reading of which he had to move that night. He would support the second reading of the noble Lord's Bill, and he hoped the noble Lord would support his also.
 Mr. Greene  said, that the parties should not be left to themselves to settle their own disputes as to commutation; the Legislature should seek to frame a regulation calculated to prevent disputes. It would be unjust to have a partial instead of a general commutation in parishes, by which the different holders on lands in the same parish would be placed in different circum-
 696
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested that the proper course for the hon. Member would be, to propose a clause in Committee to effect his object.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : As the hon. and learned Gentleman not only assented to the principle of commutation, but also admitted that the principle was adopted in the Bill, he thought they were in full possession of his authority in favour of the measure. The only practical way of bringing the hon. and learned Gentleman's argument to issue, was by a discussion in Committee, It was impossible to occupy time advantageously in the discussion otherwise than in Committee. Surely every argument which could be adduced in favour of the Bill being printed and circulated throughout the country, was an argument in favour of the second reading, his noble Friend having distinctly stated that his object was to have the Bill printed.
 Mr. Ewart  hoped that the only object of his right hon. Friend (Mr. P. Thomson) in moving for the appointment of a Committee was, to give information to the
 686
 Sir E. Knatchbull , previous to the order of the day being proceeded in for the second reading of the Tithes Commutation Bill, wished to suggest to the noble Lord opposite the propriety of postponing the second reading of the Bill.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  hardly knew how to address himself to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who bad just sat down. Those who were hurt least cried out the most, and this he believed to be the case with the hon. Gentleman. Now, it was his (Sir Edward Knatchbull's) wish, and, he trusted, the desire of every hon. Member in that House, to give to the clergy their full rights. To do justice to the clergy must, he felt persuaded, be the object which all parties had in view. But while they did this, while they gave the tithe-owner that which was his due, surely it was not unreasonable that they should, at the same time, afford some relief to the landlords. He would not go into any lengthened discussion of the details of this measure on the present occasion, as it was not, as he before expressed, his intention to offer any opposition to the second reading. He should reserve what he had to say until he had an opportunity of communicating with his constituents on the subject, because he thought it only right that, before any objections were raised against the Bill, the feelings of that part of the constituency which would be chiefly affected by its provisions with respect to it should be ascertained. There were, however, one or two points which were left untouched by the measure, to which he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord. In the Bill there did not appear to be any provision made for the payment of tithes in case of the death or removal to another parish of the incumbent shortly before the tithes becoming due. He was aware that the present law was defective in this respect, but he also knew that many instances of hardship
 707 l. l. l.
 Sir James Graham  had two suggestions which he wished to offer to the House. First, if a postponement were to take place for eight days, he would suggest that in the interval, with respect to this particular bill, no petition should be received on the ground of a suspension of the standing orders; and secondly, if at the end of the eight days the second reading should be agreed to, then the House should go into Committee upon it at the end of three days. Whereas if the Bill were read a second time to-day, the House, agreeably to the standing orders, could not go into Committee upon it until after the lapse of ten days. Thus, if his suggestions were adopted, the parties would be left in precisely the same situation as if the bill were read a second time to-day.
 Sir James Graham  said, that upon public grounds he most entirely concurred in the sentiments that had been expressed by his right hon. Friend opposite, the President of the Board of Trade. When they took into consideration the number of those bills that had been already introduced, the number that was still likely to be introduced, and the amount of capital—not less than 45,000,000 l. 681
 Mr. Jervis  said, that from the manner in which some hon. Gentlemen had discussed the measure, it would seem as if there was not a general demand throughout the country for a commutation of tithes. He, however, knew that there was a great outcry in all quarters for an alteration of the tithe system, and all he regretted was that there were a great many tithes—those that created most vexation—which this Bill did not touch. He alluded to personal tithes, the tithes on mills, and mixed tithes. They were all aware of the difficulty of collecting the tithes on calves, milk, eggs, and other articles of that description; and yet, notwithstanding this Bill, all such tithes would be still payable. The tithes on fish and fishing he considered an unjust impost, because it was not only not founded on the common law, owing its origin solely to custom, but amounted to a tax upon labour. The same might be said of the tithe upon mills. He next must say, that the additional charge of 15 s. 708
 Sir John R. Reid  thought the better plan would be to postpone the consideration of the question for a few days. He had a petition to present from very respectable persons, both from Epsom and Ewell, in favour of the line of road by way of Riegate, which was considered by them, and in which he concurred, the best line of road.
 Sir Robert Inglis  also recommended the postponement.
 Sir Robert Inglis  wished to know whether, if the Bill were now read a
 695 pro formâ 
 Sir Robert Inglis : As the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down and the hon. and learned Member who had preceded him. in the debate, had-severally alluded to him in the course of their observations, he felt himself bound to trespass for a very few minutes on the attention of the House. His noble Friend had said that he desired to maintain the ancient and venerable rights of the Church. He thought those rights as venerable as law, and as ancient as justice, and he hoped ultimately to have the support of all those in the country whose opinions he respected, even though he might now stand alone in those extreme opinions which were attributed to him. The hon. and learned Member had said that he was in error in complaining that the clergy should be called on to receive 60 l., l. 705
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the House were to consider whether there had been such a  primâ facie maximum minimum, 717 718 719 720 721
 Sir Robert Peel  regretted much he had not been present at the commencement of this discussion. When this subject was before the House on a former night, it
 683 termini 684
 The Solicitor-General  observed that the real question now before the House was, whether or not the provisions of the bill now under consideration were calcu-
 701 702 703 l. l. l. l. 704
 Mr. Clay  said, that on ordinary occasions it was not judicious to oppose the second reading of a private Bill, as it was only by referring Bills of that description to a Committee that they could be properly investigated and adjudicated. In this particular case, however, he would oppose the second reading of the Bill, concurring as he did entirely in the view taken of the matter by the right hon. Gentleman
 682
 Viscount Sandon  quite concurred in the view taken of this matter by his right hon. Friend, and he would advise the House to pursue the course which his right hon. Friend had pointed out for its adoption, especially as where there were contending parties for a railway the Committee might point out the best plan to be par-sued. In the present case he understood that there were no fewer than seven different schemes. Now was there any means at present for the House to decide as to which of those schemes best deserved adoption? He was anxious that the House should be supplied with such means, and therefore, he should vote for
 680
 Viscount Sandon  wished upon this subject to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. Holding as he did himself petitions for several railroads in his hands, which he should have to present to the House to-morrow, he was anxious to extract from the right hon. Gentleman a definite answer as to the course which it was intended to pursue with regard to railroad bills in general. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether he was prepared on the part of the Government to suggest some course for the consideration of railway petitions and bills, by which the House would be enabled to have all such cases, especially those of rival lines, fully and completely
 677
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that in the absence of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control, who was obliged to give his attendance elsewhere, it devolved upon him to state the course which the Board of Control felt it their duty to adopt in this instance. Seeing the manner in which the House had, last Session, carried the Bill through the first and second readings, notwithstanding the opposition offered to it then by the Board of Control, his right hon. Friend despaired of making any effectual opposition to it in those stages this Session, and he had therefore not intended to oppose it in those stages. It was not that his right hon. Friend had at all altered his opinion on the subject; he was as strongly impressed as ever with a sense of the gross injustice of calling upon the East-India Company to grant a compensation of this kind. He himself had gone carefully through the whole of the case, and he was convinced that if hon. Members had taken the same pains to make themselves acquainted with its merits, they would be of his opinion, that Mr. Buckingham had no claim in justice on the East-India Company. If the hon. Gentleman opposite should persevere in his motion, he (Mr. Smith) would certainly vote for it. If that Amendment should not be carried, he would move that the petition from the East-India Company against the Bill should be referred to the Middlesex list, to which, of course, this Bill would be referred, and that they be heard by counsel against the Bill before the Committee. In that way the House would be put in possession of the facts of the case. The East-India Company had a right, as the law stood at the time, to act as it did in the case of Mr. Buckingham. The House of Commons was not a fit tribunal to decide a legal claim of this kind, which Mr. Buckingham had never brought before a court of law. The sending round petitions for signatures in its favour on grounds that should never have been brought forward, was, to say the least of it, unparliamentary.
 Colonel Bruen  said, Sir, after several disappointments I eagerly seize the 6rst opportunity of claiming from the House that indulgence which it usually grants to Members who have the misfortune to be placed in a situation similar to that in which I stand—if, indeed, any Member ever was the subject of such foul and false attacks—coarser epithets might be applied, but. I refrain from following a vile example. Were it a matter of mere private concern, were my own character simply implicated, I should feel, however anxious I might be to repel
 763 764 l., s. d. l. s. d,. l. s. d., l. s. d. l. s. d., l. s. d. l. l s. l. s. d. 765 l. s. d., l. l. 766 l. 767 768 769 770
 Colonel Bruen : I shall bow with pleasure to the general feeling of the House; but I did think that an opportunity would be afforded me, after such serious charges have been preferred against me, not only to defend myself, but to defend those who have been equally guilty with me. I was endeavouring to show that the conduct pursued by the landlords of Carlow was not without some provocation, and if the House pleases, I will state a few of those provocations.
 Colonel Bruen : I shall bow to the
 772
 Colonel Bruen  said, that after the dis-
 773 l. s. d. l. 774 775
 Mr. Hope  confessed that the embarrassment which he always felt on addressing the House, was very much increased by the knowledge he had that they were anxious to proceed to business of a more general nature, but he begged to obtrude a few minutes on their time in order to vindicate the character of a noble relative of his own, who had been most unjustly attacked on several occasions, and more particularly in a petition lately presented to the House. When that petition was presented no opportunity had been afforded to his noble relative of giving any explanation whatever. He (Mr. Hope) immediately conveyed to his noble relative information of the charges which had been made against him; and he had come down on the succeeding evening, prepared, if the course of the debate had permitted, to make a brief answer to those charges. Subsequently the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Wallace) gave notice of a motion for inquiry, by Royal Commission, into the facts and circumstances set forth in Mr. Vigors's petition. On seeing this, his noble relative declared that all he wanted was a full inquiry, and he should be perfectly satisfied if that hon. Gentleman's motion were carried. What reason the hon. Gentleman might have had for deferring his motion it was
 776
 Mr. Hope  said he did not claim it as a matter of right to address the House, but asked to be permitted to do so as a matter of courtesy. He left off with stating that the time for bringing forward charges of political persecution and religious bigotry would have been when the intimidation Committee was sitting. Mr. Vigors did, in the course of last Session, get up a petition for the purpose of attempting to establish charges against his (Mr. Hope's) noble relative. He then received a com-
 777 778 779
 Mr. O'Connell : Mr. Vigors had been mentioned. He would not detain the House one moment; but he wished to be enabled to state what he thought the House must be clearly agreed upon, that this matter ought not to be allowed to remain in its present state. If these charges had been falsely made, their falsehood ought to be exposed. Therefore, it was, that he intended to move, when he had an opportunity of presenting several petitions on the subject which had been intrusted to him, that the whole of the facts should be investigated by a Select Committee.
 An Hon. Member : The death of Lord Spencer occurred the following year.
 Lord Stanley  rose. Some Gentlemen, the noble Lord observed, were anxious for a division, but his earnest hope was that there might be no division on the question before the House. He was so much afraid to make use of a single expression which might disturb the harmony that pervaded the House, that he would not have arisen if he could resist the temptation to congratulate his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) on the triumph he had obtained by the mild, quiet, prudent, and statesmanlike tone he had assumed on this occasion. It was a source of great satisfaction to him, to observe that on a subject like that before them, which was so well calculated to excite strong feelings, and more particularly the feelings of Irish Members, there had not, with scarcely one exception, been uttered a sentiment which did not do honour to him who spoke it. He attributed this to the mild and conciliatory tone in which his noble Friend, had intro-
 851 852 Oh, oh. 853
 Mr. O'Connell  came to the House strongly determined to support the principle of the resolution, but he hailed with great satisfaction the proceedings of that night. From that day party triumph ought to cease, and be buried in total oblivion; and he declared solemnly, that if he thought the words "Orange Lodges" could be construed into any thing like a party triumph, rather than a mere distinctive appellation, after the speeches of the right hon. Baronet (the Member for Tamworth), and the hon. and gallant Colonel (the Member for Sligo), he could not possibly consent to fix such a stigma upon that body. He thought the introduction of the words "Orange Lodges" was necessary for the intelligibility of the resolution, and if hon. Gentlemen opposite thought there was any other body in
 857
 Mr. Randal Plunkett  having been himself personally assailed, as well as allusion having been made to a noble relative of
 858
 Mr. Edward J. Cooper  said The had the honour of possessing the confidence generally of the county of Sligo not only amongst Orangemen and Protestants, but Roman Catholics also; and he was of
 861
 Lord John Russell  hoped that the House would indulge him a few moments after the appeal made to him by his noble Friend. He assured the Mouse, that after the statement of the hon. and gallant Colonel, and of his noble Friend who had just sat down, he felt great pain in being obliged to state that he had heard nothing in the able statements of both which could induce him to alter the resolution in the way they had suggested. In saying this, he hoped he should be understood as not unwilling so to frame the resolution as to meet the wishes of the hon. and gallant Colonel, and of others who felt sensitively on this subject, if he could do so without departing from that which he considered his duty on the present occasion. It did appear to him, after what had occurred last year, that a necessity had arisen for putting an end to all secret associations, and that the House was bound to declare its opinion whether those societies were injurious or otherwise to the public tranquillity. He did not think, therefore, that the House would meet the case fairly unless it inserted in the resolution the words "Orange Lodges." It was beyond doubt that all the previous debate had referred to those societies, but, after what had occurred, and after mentioning other societies in general, it was their duty to mention these in particular; and he owned that he did not see why hon. Gentlemen should think that the use of those words implied a stigma on them; there was no opinion pronounced as to the legality of those societies—there was nothing more said than that these as well as other secret
 854
 Lord John Russell  rose and said: Sir, I think it my duty to address the House as early as possible after the two hon. Members who have moved and seconded these resolutions, in order to put the House in possession of the course of which I gave notice on a former debate, that I should think it my duty to propose to the House to follow on this occasion. In proposing that course, I certainly feel that there never was a question upon which it was of more importance to come to a right decision, and that in stating my views upon this subject, I must also be considered as stating the general views of his Majesty's other Ministers upon a question which at different times has occupied their most anxious and serious consideration. Sir, I have to say on the one hand, that we have considered it with a view—with an opinion, that the society which has been the subject of debate this evening is mischievous to the country, and that it is our duty to endeavour to put an end to it. On the other hand, I must say that I approach the subject with no such feeling as I understood the hon. Member for Cornwall to express. I do not propose the suppression of the Orange society, because, as the hon. Baronet stated, those noblemen and gentlemen who are the head of that body are the bitter enemies of the present Ministry; I wish to consider the society simply as one affecting the peace and well-being of the country, the due authority of Government, and the proper administration of the law. This being the feeling with which I approach the subject, I think I am entitled to ask the support,
 821 822 823 en masse 824 825 826 827 828 829 "Dunsany Castle, Dec. 27, 1834. "MY LORD—I received your Lordship's letter of the 26th inst. this day. In your former letter you asked me whether Mr. Henry Smith held an office in an Orange Society. I answered that I had no means of ascertaining, not belonging to it myself. My son, Mr. Plunkett, was then in the county of Kilkenny; he is now with me, and informs me that Mr. Henry Smith no longer holds the office you mention, but another replaced him about a year ago. As to his being an Orangeman, I suppose he is, as he generally held office, and so are, probably, half the Magistrates in the county; and if so, they are the more watchful of the evil designs of the Ribandmen, of whom a large majority of the labouring classes are composed. I have the honour, &c. DUNSANY." "MY LORD—As your Lordship, in your letter of the 27th instant, in recommending Mr. Henry Smith, states that yon suppose him still to be an Orangeman, and as it is His Excellency's intention not knowingly to make any more appointments of members of that society, his Excellency must therefore repeat, that unless Mr. Smith either denies his connexion with it, or signifies his intention of withdrawing from it, he must decline to nominate him a Deputy-lieutenant for the county of Meath. His Excellency cannot close this correspondence without expressing his most entire and unqualified dissent from the opinion which appears to be conveyed in the latter part of your Lordship's letter, that Magistrates, by becoming Orangemen, are thereby more fit to watch the designs of Ribandmen. Should such designs exist to the extent and amongst the persons your Lordship supposes, his Excellency will look alone for their suppression to the open and impartial discharge of their duty by the Magistrates as such, and not to their connexion with Orange Institutions." 830 831 832
 Lord John Russell : I rise to order, Sir, and I do so for the purpose of clearly understanding what it is that the hon. and gallant Member is going to do. If I understand him rightly, it is this: that having made his statement respecting his own character personally (and which the House, of course, has listened to with that attention with which it is always ready to listen to statements of a similar nature) he is now going to state what has been the conduct of other landlords in the county of Carlow with respect to their tenants. I may be wrong in so understanding the hon. and gallant Member; but if that is his intention, of course the House will no longer think that the statement is merely the hon. Gentleman's own statement; and if the hon. Gentleman should (as of course he would) impugn the conduct of other persons, those other persons will in fairness have a right to be heard in their defence.
 Major Beauclerk  supported the Bill, and denied that Mr. Buckingham had been guilty of any breach of the law in India. If the hon. Member for Sheffield had what was called "a tail," less opposition would be made to this claim.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that circumstanced as he was—being an officer of the Orange Institution, he trusted that a British House of Commons would not refuse him a patient hearing. He begged to state that it was not his intention to address the House at any length, and if hon. Members would but attend to him, he undertook not to occupy them more than a few minutes. It had been his lot on many occasions to address the House on the subject of the Orange Institution,—and from the tone and temper in which the debate was conducted, he could not conceal from himself that the discussions on the Orange Institution were now about to come to a close. The great characteristic of the Orange Institutions of Ireland had been inalienable loyalty. In no case, under no circumstances, had any change taken place in their feelings of loyalty to the King, and attachment to the Constitution and the Protestant religion. Such had been their polar star heretofore, and now that a crisis had arrived, he entertained a confident hope that Orangemen would, one and all, manifest the same unflinching loyalty which had always been nearest and dearest to their hearts. He believed it now impossible that any Orangeman could for a moment think of averting the Address to his Majesty to discountenance all secret associations, and in that feeling he would imitate the example of his hon. Friend near him, and inculcate on those
 849 850
 Mr. Lawson  felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the manner in which this case appeared to have been got up. A few weeks ago he received a packet inclosing to him the draught of a petition in favour of this Bill, and requesting him to present it to his constituents for their signatures. He could not help thinking that this was a most unusual and unparliamentary mode of procuring petitions in favour of a private Bill. The note that accompanied the petition sent to him was from Mr. Buckingham. It conveyed to him that Gentleman's compliments, and requested that he would transmit the petition to his constituents for their signatures. This practice of one Member addressing another, and asking him to get up petitions in favour of some private claim of that individual Member, would, if carried to any extent, lower the character of that House in the eyes of the country at large, and it was a practice, in his opinion, more, worthy of an American Congress than of a British House of Commons. He begged leave to move, as an Amendment, that this Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Anthony Lefroy  rose amidst loud cries of "question," and said, that after so protracted a debate, he should rather have abstained from offering any observations, if he had not been personally alluded to by the hon. Member for Cornwall, in a speech which he must be allowed to say, appeared to him to be most intemperate, and to contain very unfounded charges against all Orange bodies; and therefore, being aware how much the silence of a sincere Orangeman on such an occasion might be misrepresented, he implored the indulgence of the House whilst he shortly addressed them, not in defence of the Orangemen of England—for if they had erred, as had been described by the hon. Member for Cornwall, it was sufficient for him (Mr. A. Lefroy) to know and repeat, what had been already declared by his hon. Friend, the secretary of the Irish Orangemen, that they formed no
 860
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that in consequence of the adoption by the House last night, of his proposition for the appointment of a Select Committee, and the putting off the second reading of all Railway Bills fixed for that night, until Monday next, he now rose to propose a series of resolutions which would have the effect of placing those Bills in the same position, as if no such postponement had taken place. The right hon. Gentleman moved Resolutions to the following effect: That the House would not receive any petition upon a private Bill relative to compliance or non-compliance with the standing orders, subsequent to the second reading of such Bill—that the House would not receive any such petition relative to any Railway Bill, notice for the second reading of which had been given previous to Monday next—that it should be a standing order of the House, that seven clear days should intervene between the second reading of all Railway Bills, and the sitting of the Committee, and that in the cases of the Bills that had been postponed, the said seven days should be allowed from the day originally fixed for the second reading of such Bills, as if they had been then read a second time.
 Mr. Tulk , after stating that Mr. Bucking-
 758
 Mr. Tulk : from the funds of the East-India Company.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he rose for no other purpose, at that period of the debate, than to entreat his hon. Friends behind him, connected with the Orange society, under all the circumstances, not to divide the House. He felt for their situation, and he could not sufficiently express his admiration of the candour, the ingenuousness, and the manliness with which they had stated their willingness dutifully to submit to the pleasure of the Crown, when once it should be declared. He must, too, add his warmest and sincerest thanks to those which his hon. Friends had already received, for the great sacrifice they were prepared to make of private and personal feeling in deference to the wishes and opinions of those friends who had the good fortune to think and act with them, on almost every question of
 859
 Mr. Robinson  said, that last year he had opposed this Bill, and he saw no reason to alter his opinion of it now. It was proved by the counsel of the East-India Company last Session, that Mr. Buckingham had been over and over again warned that if he persevered in the course he was pursuing, he would subject himself to the measures which the Government of India found it necessary finally to adopt in his case. What weight was to be attached to the petitions presented in favour of this Bill, when the parties signing them were told that the people of Hindostan would have to pay the money? No doubt half the people of England would sign those petitions when told so. It would be a different thing, however, if they knew that the money was to come out of their own pockets.
 Mr. Henry Maxwell  said, that from the situation which he held in connexion with the Orange Lodges, it was necessary he should say a few words. It would be in the recollection of the House, that when the hon. Member for Kilkenny gave his notice of Motion for the appointment of a Select Committee, at the commencement of last Session, to inquire into the state of Orange Lodges in Ireland; that notice was immediately met by the Grand Committee in Dublin, who petitioned the House to institute the strictest inquiry, placing at the disposal of that Committee all their books, and documents, sending over their officers to reveal the secret signs and passwords, and giving every possible information. That Committee was appointed; and he did not object to the numbers on both sides, during the whole of the proceedings, there being fourteen against, and thirteen supposed to be favourable to the Orangemen. He did, however, object to some of the gentlemen who were allowed to be upon the Committee. Of the fourteen who were against them, five were Roman Catholics, and all of them lawyers; out of the five, four were distinguished members of the Roman Catholic Association. The only individual who was not so was the right hon. Gentleman, the present Attorney-General for Ireland. Two gentlemen were distinguished members of the Irish bar. One of these gentlemen (the Member for Tipperary), even before the examination of witnesses commenced, stated distinctly, in the presence of the Committee, that his object was to condemn the Orangemen. He went there, in fact, with his mind made up, and his sentiments ware well known. It would be within recollection, that another learned Gentleman to whom he referred (the Member for Dublin) had made a most eloquent appeal, a few years since, to the worst passions of an infuriated populace, adjuring them by the hatred they bore to Orangemen. He was the
 836 837 ex parte 838 839
 Mr. Warburton  found upon the list of notices the following for Tuesday, the 1st of March—namely, "Petition on the subject of the late Carlow election, and to take that opportunity of making a statement to the House on the matter of the petition which was presented to the House on the 15th of February instant, and printed with the votes of that day, con-
 771
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion that the hon. and gallant Member ought to defer his observations till Tuesday, the 1st of March, for which day he had given notice of bringing this subject before the House.
 The Speaker  said that the hon. and gallant Member had given notice for to day, but the notice had been erroneously printed in the votes.
 The Speaker  was understood to say, that on seeing the notice on the votes for Tuesday next, he was surprised that the hon. and gallant Member should have risen to address the House on the subject of that notice to-day; but as the hon. and gallant Member had entered partially into his statement, it might be convenient for the House to allow him to proceed, so far as related to the matters affecting himself personally. But as there stood a notice of a motion respecting the proceedings in the county of Carlow for a future day, he trusted the hon. and gallant Officer would not be betrayed into remarks beyond what simply related to his own case, and that no other hon. Member would be induced to enter upon a premature discussion on the subject. generally respecting the county of Carlow.
 The Speaker  thought it was unnecessary to interfere with the hon. Member.
 The Speaker  said, that as the hon. and gallant Member was personally concerned in the question, he ought to be allowed to exercise his own discretion, as to the course he was to pursue.
 Mr. Poulter  said, that though he opposed this Bill last Session, yet, upon an accurate examination of the subject, he considered himself bound now to give it his support. Looking at the whole of the case, it appeared to him that Mr. Buckingham had been induced to set up the  Calcutta Journal
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that sitting there a Member of the British House of Commons, and as such intrusted with the care of the interests, not merely of the people of England, but of the people of Hindostan, he must oppose this Bill. What did it propose to do? It proposed to make the people of Hindostan pay for the exercise
 760
 Mr. Wilson Patten  said, that whilst on the Committee which sat upon the subject of Orange Lodges, he had devoted considerable time and attention to this subject, and it was with great pleasure, he concurred in almost all the observations which had just been made by the noble Lord. Having gone through the whole of the evidence, it was his impression that all secret societies produced an injurious effect upon the peace and tranquillity of the country. He, however, must be permitted to say, that the speeches of the hon. Gentlemen who had preceded the noble Lord were like those of persons more anxious to attain victory than to arrive at truth. He certainly objected to the strong resolutions which had been laid before
 833
 Mr. Hume  observed that the expression in the letter was, "that as Parliament was prorogued, nothing can be done unless a death of importance occurs." This, at any rate alluded to some important death, which might be expected, and in his opinion, it was the death of Earl Spencer, which was anticipated. There were two or three letters published in the evidence on the table, which he considered of considerable importance. Two of these were directed to the Marquess of Londonderry, and were copies of letters purporting to be sent to that nobleman. These copies were found in a book, which was laid before the Committee. Some doubt, however, might arise as to whether they had been received or written to his Lordship, although they were entered on the book. There certainly appeared in the Report to be no answers to them; but he could only say, that he had the answer of the noble Lord to those letters
 801 "SIR—I was honoured with your two communications of the 29th and 30th." "With Mr. Wright of Sunderland, who was recently in London, I had some conversation on the great advantages that might result from an extension of such a society at this conjuncture. Conceiving its principles to be strictly in unison with those entertained by your Lordship, in the course of our communications your name was introduced, when that Gentleman said if the matter were taken up with spirit by you, the whole district would follow the example, and cheerfully join such an association. To urge, it might be political for your Lordship to do so, in a personal sense, would be to offer you a very ill compliment; but to contemplate it, as shall presently be made to appear, in a patriotic view, the security of that part of the kingdom might be consolidated by such means. The pitmen would perhaps feel inclined to establish lodges among themselves, which might operate as an additional stimulus to their loyalty, and would likewise prove a partial check against their entering into cabals hereafter, no less to the preservation of private property than to that of the public peace. Knowing that your Lordship has firmness to espouse the cause you approve, on this occasion I address you with the less reserve. When the altar and the throne are alike assailed—when infidelity and treason are boldly avowed—when a Republic and a Lord Protector are confidently spoken of—when, indeed, we have a Popish Cabinet, and a democratical Ministry, who, having given birth to a monster they can no longer control, are now alarmed at their own popularity, and are the abject slaves of a ferocious, sanguinary, and subversive Press, little short of a miracle can work the salvation of our once happy country! It behoves us, nevertheless, to exercise our energies, and, by measures at once prompt and vigorous, to stem the torrent that threatens to overwhelm us. By a rapid augmentation of our physical force, we might be able to assume a boldness of attitude which should command the respect of our Jacobinical rulers. What the Catholics and the Unionists have achieved by agitation and clamour in a factions cause, we might then be enabled to effect in a righteous one. If we prove not too strong for such a Government as the present is such a Government will
 802 "Cannon-row, Westminster, 30th July, 1832. "MY LORD MARQUESS,—In my letter of Saturday, I omitted to mention that we have the military with us as far as they are at liberty to avow their principles and sentiments; but since the lamented death of the Duke of York, every impediment has been thrown in the way of their holding a Lodge. The same observation that was applied to the colliers might be attached to the soldiery. As Orangemen, there would be an additional security for their allegiance, and unalterable fidelity in times like the present, when revolutionary writers are striving to stir them up to open sedition, and mutiny. In trespassing thus upon the attention of your Lordship, I am not so presumptuous as to suppose that any thing urged by me could influence your conduct; but, understanding the Duke of Cumberland has communicated with your Lordship on this subject, I felt it my duty to put you in possession' of certain facts with which you might not be acquainted. 803 "I have the honour to be, any Lord Marquess, your Lordship's very respectful and obedient servant, "W. B. FAIRMAN." "To the Marquess of Londonderry." "Wynyard-park, August 8, 1832. "SIR,—I am honoured with your two communications of the 29th and 30th ult. "You do me only justice in believing that I would most willingly embrace every opportunity, and do all in my power to espouse the cause and establish the institutions you allude to in this part of the kingdom; but the present state of liberal Whig feeling in this very Whig county, and the very refractory and insubordinate state of the pitmen, entirely preclude the possibility of successful efforts at this juncture. I have had a full conversation and communication with Lord Kenyon on all this matter, who has been in my house these last two days, and I have no doubt he will convince his Royal Highness, as well as yourself, that the present moment is not the time when the object can be forwarded. "I will lose no opportunity of embracing any opening that may arise; and "I have the honour to be, Sir, your very obedient servant, (Signed) "VANE LONDONDERRY." (Directed) "Col. Fairman, Cannon-row, Westminster, (Post mark, Stockton.) "London."
 Mr. Hume  rose to bring before the House the Motion relative to Orange Lodges, of which he had given notice. It would be recollected that on the 4th of August last he had brought forward the question of Orange Lodges generally. The evidence taken before the Committee appointed to inquire into the subject of Orange Lodges, afforded to his mind so much evidence, and so many strong facts, that it had appeared to him absolutely necessary that the last Session of Parliament should not terminate without the House coming to some Resolution oft the subject. It would be recollected, that in pursuance of a motion made by him, the evidence, so far as it was taken, was laid on the Table of the House. He then sub-
 780 781 782 783 No, No, 784 785 786 787 788 789 790 791 792 793 Oh! 794 795 fac simile, 796 797 Morning Herald "Dear Sir—From those who may be supposed to have opportunities of knowing 'the secrets of the Castle,' the King is stated to be by no manner in so alarming a state as many folks would have it imagined. His Majesty is likewise said to dictate the bulletins of his own state of health. Some whisperings have also gone abroad, that in the event of a demise of the Crown, a Regency would probably be established, for reasons which occasioned the removal of the next in succession from the office of High Admiral. That a maritime government might not prove consonant to the views of a military chieftain of the most unbounded ambition, may admit of easy belief; and as the second heir presumptive is not alone a female but a minor, in addition to the argument which might be applied to the present, that, in the ordinary course of nature, it was not to be expected that his reign could be of long duration, in these disjointed times, it is by no means unlikely a vicarious form of Government they be attempted. The effort would be a bold one, but, after the measures we have seen, what new violations should Surprise us? Besides, the popular plea of economy and expedience might be urged as the pretext, while aggrandisement and usurpation might be the latent sole motive. It would only be necessary to make out a plausible case, which, from the facts on record, there could be no difficulty in doing, to the satisfaction of a pliable and obsequious set of Ministers, as also to the success of such an experiment.—Most truly yours, "Wednesday, April 6, 1830. "W. B. F. "I have scribbled this at Peel's, and if you wish it, will write a paragraph on the subject. From all that I hear, there can be little doubt the King will soon resume his rides in the Great Park, now that the drawing-room is gone by. "(Private.)" 798 "Portman-square, April 27. "Dear Sir—I heartily wish I could hope to be of any use in applying at Chelsea in behalf of the writer of the inclosed. I think we had better communicate it to his Royal Highness, as he is the only person, except yourself, who can judiciously interfere in military matters connected with the Orange Institutions. I hope your attack is going off, and that we shall have a thoroughly amicable meeting next Friday. Brother Mair seems very frank and well-meaning. If you could get Mr. Knipe, who is a favorite, I think, with his Royal Highness, to attend, it would be well. "Ever, my dear Sir, faithfully yours, "KENYON." "Portman-square, June 13, 1833. "My dear Sir—I am grieved that our valued brother Cumberland should suppose for one moment he could have given me the slightest offence. It may happen sometimes to me, as applied by Shakspeare to Brutus— 'Poor Brutus with himself at war, Forgets to show his love to other men.' But I never can forget to feel it for so zealous a friend to every cause most dear to me, as our brother Cumberland has always proved himself to be. The statement you made to me before, and respecting which I have now before me particulars from Portsmouth, are out of my sphere, and should be referred,  toties quoties, "Your faithful friend and brother, "KENYON." "To Colonel Fairman." 799 "Portman-square, July 10, 1833. "My dear Sir.—I send you some anti-Roman Catholic books, which you may distribute among the following Peers—Manyers, Stradbroke, Liverpool, Harrowby, Northampton, Carnarvon, the Bishops of Llandaff, Lincoln (Warren's Hotel), &c. &c. I can say nothing as to Mr. Staveley's publication, but if done it should be forthwith, and I would take a few copies. You know much better how to manage our brethren than I do, and they must be kept together as well as they can be. If you hear anything further from the military districts, let his Royal Highness know all particulars fit to be communicated. The times I really trust are improving quietly and gradually. Let us act firmly and maintain all that is sacred, and provoke no one more than can be avoided. "Believe me, my dear Sir, yours faithfully, "KENYON." "Portman-square, May 30, 1833. "My dear Sir—With respect to the composition of the Grand Committee the pleasure of his Royal Highness the Grand Master is the only rule by which its formation can properly be regulated. Its being so framed as to produce harmony in the institution will no doubt be the principle by which his Royal Highness will be guided, and I am confident that, feeling as he must do, the essential importance (especially with reference to your undertaking a new tour to consummate the zeal and harmony of which you have laid the foundation in North Britain and the northern and trading districts of England), that you and the Grand Committee should be in entire harmony and mutual confidence; that, therefore, neither brother South nor brother Morris should continue a member of it. The will of the Grand Master is conclusive, and no names ought to be submitted to his Royal Highness in Grand lodge but such as will be satisfactory to him. The suggestion at the meeting of the grand Lodge is not for the purpose of election otherwise than in accordance with the pleasure of the head of the institution, whose authority is justly declared to be supreme. You may communicate this to the Grand Committee, for we must not let our high and zealous friends who meet at the Grand Lodge be disgusted any more by discussions at those meetings. Should any such be apprehended, his Royal Highness should be informed, that he may, previous to the anniversary of June, interdict the at-
 800 "Believe me, my dear Sir, "Your faithful brother and friend. "KENTON. "To Colonel Fairman, &c. &c." "Eastwell Park, August 13th, 1833. "My Dear Sir—Be so good as to send the Earl of Winchilsea, in a day or two (but not overweight, as yours of this morning is to me) the circular of June 4th, and any other circular which will contain good names and matter in it. You can say, you did it by my desire, and in hopes that he, as one of the staunchest of Protestants, would join us. I am glad to hear that several persons of judgment think we might have a Government with which the House of Commons would act. If so, it is a sad pity the Hero of Waterloo and others would not act as to have obtained such a Ministry during the existing Session. When Parliament is prorogued, it is well known nothing can be done, unless some death of importance occurs. I hope to be in town on Thursday morning, for two nights. "Ever your faithful friend and brother, "KENYON." [ The reading of this letter was followed by laughter and cries of "Earl Spencer."
 Mr. Hume  said, that the last expression in the letter was, "I shall not lose any opportunity of embracing any opening that they arise."
 Mr. Hume  replied, certainly not. He alluded to Colonel Fairman, and not to the noble Lord in question. He repeated, he did not know what might be the pro-
 804 "Peel Hall, 28th Dec. "MY DEAR COLONEL AND BROTHER,—I am here again with my venerable aunt, eighty-nine years of age, on a Christmas visit, but return to Gredington next Thursday. Anxiously do I wish the Cock of the North may think it right to come to Glasgow. The warm feeling of Lord J. Campbell, who was a little my junior at Christ Church, Oxford, is very gratifying, and promises, please God we may be blessed with better times, much good in the north hereafter. His old relation, John Campbell, Accountant-General, was always proud of him as a Campbell, and I heartily wish he may live and indue time long enjoy the family honours. I will send our Grand Treasurer your circular. His Royal Highness promises being in England a fortnight before Parliament re-assembles, and I hope will come well. To him, privately, you had better address yourself about your military proposition, which to me appears very judicious. I wish such as his Royal Highness would, without neglecting the prime consideration, viz., the fitness of any thing proposed, attend, in addition to that, to what is popular. Our enemies attend to that alone, which is base; we seem to disregard it too much, which is foolish. "Ever yours, faithfully, "KENYON." 805 806 807 808 809 "My Lord—In forwarding to your Lordship the inclosure of yesterday, which for itself speaks so distinctly as to leave me but little to add on the same subject, I am persuaded you will not consider me to have been importunate or obtrusive. Should those with whom your Lordship is in the habit of acting, see the necessity, at a crisis of danger like the present, for such an engine, the sooner it shall be set in motion the better. The daily Press has long been monopolised by, and is row in the sole occupation of the enemy. Hence the multitude who seldom take much trouble to reflect, who possess not the faculty of judging for themselves, are led astray by the sophistries so sedulously put forth for their misguidance. That filthy concern,  The Times. "That filthy concern,  The Times, Loud Laughter. 810 1st. That this House, taking into consideration the evidence given before the Select Committee appointed to inquire in so the nature, extent, character, and tendency of Orange Lodges, Associations, or Societies in Ireland; and of Orange Institutions in Great Britain and the Colonies; and seeing that the existence of Orange Societies is highly detrimental to the peace of the community, by exciting discord amongst the several classes of his Majesty's subjects; and seeing that it is highly injurious to the due administration of justice, that any Judge, Sheriff, Magistrate, Juryman, or any other person employed in maintaining the peace of the country, should be bound by any secret obligation to, or be in any combination with, any Association unknown to the Laws, and founded upon principles of religious exclusion, that even if justice were impartially administered under such circumstances, which is in itself impossible, yet any connection with such Societies would create suspicions and jealousies detrimental to the peace and good Government of this country. 2nd. That Orange Societies, and all other political Societies which have secret forms of initiation, and secret signs, and are bound together by any religious ceremony, are especially deserving of the severest reprobation of the House, and should no longer be permitted to continue. 3rd. That a humble Address be presented to his Majesty, that his Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct measures to be taken to remove from the public service, at home and abroad, every Judge, Privy Councillor, Lord-Lieutenant, Deputy Lord-Lieutenant, Custos Rotulorum, Magistrate, Militia Officer, Inspector, Chief Constable of the Constabulary and Peace Preservation Force, every Officer of Police in Ireland, and every functionary employed in the administration of justice, and in maintaining the peace of the
 811
 Mr. Hume  said, though he liked his own resolutions best, he would withdraw them for the resolution of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Pease  thought the House bound in justice to procure satisfaction for Mr. Buckingham, who had been the victim of the tyrannical proceedings of the Indian Government.
 Mr. Methuen : I rise to order, Sir. So long as the hon. and gallant Officer confined himself to a vindication of his own character, I, of course, felt bound to listen to him with attention; but I wish to know whether the hon. and gallant Officer is not now going beyond the line which the indulgence of the House usually permits in cases of a personal nature?
 Mr. Methuen  rose to order. He thought the hon. Member was not entitled to enter into these particulars.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, as his evidence had been specially alluded to by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he trusted he might be permitted to offer a few observations. In justice to the Orangemen of the North of Ireland, he felt himself bound to state, that on the occasion alluded to, when the Orangemen at Crosgar resisted his authority as a Magistrate, acting under the proclamation of the Duke of Northumberland, then Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, they were impelled to that resistance solely by the conviction of their having warrants signed by his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland. They acted under the false impression that this gave them a legal right to have their processions, and that it had all the power of an authority emanating from the Crown itself. As an additional proof of this, he said that they offered to surrender their warrants to him, if he stated he had an authority from the Crown to demand them, and that in such case they would immediately disperse. Thus the Orangemen were acting under a false impression, and not from any wilful opposition to the law. The Orangemen were sufferers by bad government with their Catholic brethren. They were cherished, supported, and encouraged in every measure for many years, by the several governments to whom power was committed. Latterly, unsuccessful attempts had been made to
 834 835
 Colonel Verner  said, as my name stands in the list of notices for a motion upon the subject which is now before the House, I trust I may be permitted to address a few observations to it, which I feel more particularly called upon to do, from the nature of the noble Lord's resolutions which have just been read. I do not consider it necessary to notice the allusion made by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, respecting nine or ten houses which were burned at Armagh, now magnified, by him, into sixteen, or to follow him through his several charges against the Orange body and his many statements, upon the occasion of bringing forward his motion a few nights since, neither do I think it necessary to quiet the hon. Member's loyal apprehensions, with regard to the dangers to the succession to the throne. Danger to the succession, and from the Orangemen—there is not a man of common understanding who could seriously entertain the idea. I am quite sure the illustrious Princess, on whom the hopes and affections of the people are fixed, is not distrustful of any portion of the Protestants of Great Britain; but of this I am also sure, that even in the general attachment of all, the loyalty of Orangemen will not be least conspicuous. And if there were danger to the throne or the succession, and a day was come which I may be permitted to hope is far distant, that that illustrious Princess had to call upon her subjects—in the hour of danger—there is not throughout the extent of the land an Orange Lodge, in every member of which they could not find a champion ready to risk life and fortune, and shed the last drop of his blood in the maintenance of her rightful authority. The House is fully aware, as stated by my hon. Friend the Member for Cavan, that a Committee sat last session for several days to inquire into Orange Societies in Ireland—that it took the depositions of very many witnesses against that society—some in its favour, but many more were postponed, and ultimately refused to be examined. The House must also recollect that that Committee did not make any report upon the evidence adduced before it; and was it not rather too much for the hon. Member for Kilkenny to expect that when a Committee, especially
 840 Edinburgh Review, 841 Review "7327—The friends of the deceased and the party who were assaulted, heard that Lieutenant Hamilton intended to fly the country, they made a prisoner of him, and brought him before two Magistrates; the rev. Mr. Stack was the name of one, I have not the name of the other Magistrate. "7329—The people applied to those Magistrates to grant a warrant to commit Lieutenant Hamilton. The Magistrates refused, saying, they would take the father's security for the son's appearance, and they did take his verbal security. Young Mr. Hamilton thought proper to forfeit the verbal bail taken by the Magistrates. He fled from the country, and did not return for some years. He is now returned, and is a Justice of the Peace for the Co. Tyrone. "7330—I know Mr. Hamilton is now a Justice of the Peace in that county in which he is charged with having committed the murder. "7334—I was counsel in that case. 842 "Caledon, 29th January, 1836. "My Lord—As it was stated in evidence by Mr. Randal Kernan, before a Committee of the House of Commons which sat to inquire into the nature of Orange Lodges, when speaking of Mr. Hamilton, 'he is now a Justice of the Peace in that county (Tyrone) in which he is charged with having committed the murders, and on which charge a bill of indictment was found against him,' it becomes my duty to acquaint your Lordship that Mr. Hamilton neither is, nor ever was, a Justice of the Peace for the county of Tyrone. "I apprised Mr. Kernan on the 29th of October, 1835, of the error into which he had fallen, and which he at once admitted, but as I know that his evidence has misled the public at large, I entreat your Lordship to adopt the mode you think best to undeceive it. "I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's most obedient, humble servant, "CALEDON.' "Viscount Morpeth, &c. &c." "My Dear Sir—In reply to your letter of the 16th instant, I assure you that if counsellor Kernan said I released Mr. Hamilton on the word of his father, it is a complete fabrication. Mr. Hamilton was never brought before me in. custody or otherwise, on the charge alluded to. You might of yourself, almost, have contradicted such an assertion, from your knowledge of the Magistrates here. I am much obliged for your communication, and remain yours, most truly, THOMAS STACK." "Omagh, February 19, 1835." v. "7274—Can state a very remarkable case tried by Chief Justice Bushe in the county of Tyrone. 843 "7273—Cannot give the date precisely without referring to his notes, it was about ten, or from ten to twelve years. It was an indictment for murder. "7275—The name of the party was M'Cabe  v. "7276—The son of the deceased was the prosecutor, a man residing neat Portadown, of the name of M'Cabe. "7277—He was a Roman Catholic. "7278—It was in the Lodge-room the conspiracy was hatched. "7279—The trial was at Omagh. The first time or second time the Judge went that circuit. "7283—After the trial, the Chief Justice sent for me. I went to him, and he said, in substance—'You are the only barrister who took a full note of this trial, do you intend to publish it?' I said, "certainly I do." He said, 'Kernan, my dear fellow, do you think its publication would pacify the country, &c.' "7296—Four or five were tried, has destroyed or lost his notes, and cannot tell the number indicted. "7309—Either the Chief Justice, on reference to his notes, (he cannot forget the trial) or the clerk of the Crown, or the Crown Solicitor, on reference to the Crown hook, can, in a minute, state particulars." 844 "2959—Cannot say that he has discovered Ribbon Lodges, but is aware of their existence. "2960—Had information of their meetings at Glasgow to a considerable extent. In all instances there was a meeting of twenty-four delegates from different Societies of Ireland—men at one time in Glasgow, when they were addressed and stimulated by a paid emissary of the Ribbonmen who had come from Ireland. "2963—They meet every day in a different place—they never keep to one place of meeting. "2970—Has no doubt that an emissary was sent from Ireland to attend a Ribbon Lodge in Glasgow. "2971—Thinks he has got hold of an emissary but is not sure of convicting him, as the
 845 Mr. Duff, Chief Constable of Police.—Extract from his Report to the Government:—"As a further convincing proof as to Colonel Verner's wishes to oppose and embarrass the Government, I feel it my duty to state the following circumstance, which I can have proved at any time called on, and which took place during my absence on duty from this district—namely, that on the night the intelligence reached this part of the country as to Earl Grey's resignation, he (Colonel Verner) assembled the Orangemen of his neighbourhood to celebrate the event at his own house, in front of which he had an immense large bonfire erected, the bands playing party tunes." 846 847 848
 Colonel Verner  said, he should move that the words be left out, and that it was his intention to take the opinion of the House upon the question.
 Mr. Jervis  rose to order. The hon. and gallant Member opposite had been heard in consequence of the indulgence of the House being always extended to every hon. Member on whom imputations had been cast, and the earliest opportunity afforded to him to give an explanation of his conduct. But that was not the case of the hon. Gentleman who was now in possession of the House. He was addressing himself to a subject not relating to any Member of this House, and he (Mr. Jervis) put it to the House whether they would allow the hon. Member to proceed in making a statement which must, of necessity, lead to a lengthened debate?
 Sir Robert Inglis  wished to know from what fund the proposed compensation could be provided?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the refusal of the noble Lord to comply with the request of his noble Friend, would not alter the tone and temper of the few observations he should make. He was sure that it would be for the tranquillity of Ireland that an end should be put to all secret societies in that country. The existence of any of them was an evil, inasmuch as it held out a bad example to others. His opinion and his wish were, not only that an end should be put to all such associations, but he also wished to see the spirit in which they originated entirely and effectually suppressed. If the spirit remained, they would gain little by the suppression of its external forms. But he did regret that the noble Lord should not have given way to the suggestion of the noble Lord's Friend (Lord Stanley), for he owned that though he was prepared to assent to the noble Lord's amendment, it was not without great sacrifice of opinion. He objected to proceeding by resolution; he thought they ought to indicate the will of the Legislature by a law rather than by a resolution of one branch of it. They ought studiously to avoid a course by which a dominant majority of that House could denounce any party. They should be cautious in denouncing by a majority of that House any proceedings of any bodies, which, though they might be objectionable in many respects, might still not be against any law of the land. The resolutions of that House had no force, except such as the prerogative of the Crown might give them; they had not the force of law, and this was the first time that he had heard of establishing the precedent of a resolution of that House, disqualifying for office on the alleged ground of conduct, the legality of which was at least questionable. However, he waved all those objections, for he perceived that all in that House were prepared to address the Crown to put an end to all secret societies. Independently of his own feeling on the subject, he objected to the words which had been used that Orange Societies were illegal. The hon. Baronet who had seconded the resolution, had declared that all those societies were contrary to the law of the land, and added that the Attorney-General had nothing to
 855 856
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said that there was no doubt that upon the strict point of order the hon. and learned Member was correct. But the House must consider if they would receive petitions containing heavy charges upon individuals which they had no opportunity, personally, to answer, they being Members of the other House of the Legislature, whether, after giving a facility of reception to petitions much greater than used to be given in former times, and allowing them to have currency to the most remote parts of the empire, they were not in justice called upon to extend a like indulgence to those who were so charged, and relax their rules in favour of hearing the answers to the attacks that had been made.
 Sir William Molesworth : I rise to second the Motion of my hon. Friend. I would call the attention of the House to the concluding paragraphs of the Report of the Committee on the Orange Institutions in Great Britain. After having cited a portion of the Statutes of the 39th George 3rd, c. 79, the Report says—"It will be for the House to consider whether the present organization of Orange Lodges, in connexion with the Imperial Grand Lodge, comes within the words of the Statute, and, if so, whether the Law Officers of the Crown should not be directed to institute legal proceedings, without delay, against the Grand Officers of ail Orange Lodges." I know that the Orangemen consider this institution not to be an illegal one, because, in 1822, they obtained a favourable opinion from Sergeant Lens, Sir William Home, Mr. Baron Gurney, and Mr. Adolphus. Undoubtedly, according to the case submitted to those learned Gentlemen, the Orange Institution was not an illegal Society in 1822. A. Society, however, may, according to its printed rules, be strictly legal yet, in practice, depart from those rules, and be an illegal Society, and this I believe to have been the case of the Orange Institution in 1822; this, however, is of little consequence. The House must bear in mind this fact, that in 1832 the rules o the Society were materially altered from those which were submitted to Sergean Lens, and were assimilated to those of the Orange Societies in Ireland. Now it is in consequence of those alterations, it is in consequence of the existing rules, that I contend that this Society is an illegal one Though the printed rules of a Society are the worst possible evidence of its legality, yet, as admissions, they are the best evidence of its illegality. I am convinced that if hon. Gentlemen will examine
 812 813 814 815 s. s. d. 816 Randal Plunkett 817 818 819 imperium in imperio, 820
 Lord Castlereagh  was quite sure that the hon. Member would, on reflection, feel that the question ought to be pressed. He wished to know whether the hon. Member alluded to his (Lord Castlereagh's) father as the individual having certain intentions.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose to order. He wished to know if the last expression of the hon. Member was applied to Lord Londonderry or to Colonel Fairman.
 Sir George Clerk  thought they had no right to appropriate those funds to a purpose totally different from that intended by the donor.
 Mr. Wallace  said, they had heard no complaint of the misappropriation of those funds when spent formerly in eating and drinking, but a cry was raised now against expending any portion of them in educating the people. He thought they could not be better applied,
 Captain Gordon  felt it his duty to oppose this Bill, which went to divert to a totally different purpose funds that had been left for a specific object. The fund in question had been left by Sir A. Hay, in the middle of the 17th century, for the maintenance and repairing of the bridge over the Don at Aberdeen; and the testator adjured those to whom the trust was confided, namely, the town-council and magistrates of Aberdeen, to fulfil it faithfully and for ever, as they would answer for it at the day of judgment. The late much calumniated Magistrates of Aberdeen had faithfully adhered to the terms of the trust and the intentions of the donor, but it was now proposed by the new town-council to take 6,000 l.
 Mr. Wallace  would also join in hoping his hon. Friend would see the importance of his acceding to the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Edinburgh. At the same time he must say, that no part of Scotland was more op-
 884
 Sir George Clerk : After the general expression of feeling by Members connected with Scotland, he trusted his hon. Friend would meet the proposition of Government in the manner so universally desired. The hon. Member for Dundee who knew more than any man, perhaps, upon the subject, had pointed out an Act which he thought the best model of legislation in Statute Labour; it was a Bill brought in for the county of For far which had acted most beneficially. He thought the Committee, having before them the whole of these Bills would be able to devise a more perfect remedy for ail the abuses existing in the law on that head.
 Mr. Wakley  wished to ask the hon. and gallant Member for Barnstaple, whether it was his intention to bring forward his motion for the abolition of military flogging, and, if so, whether he would press that motion to a division?
 Major Fancourt  replied, that it certainly was his intention to move for the entire abolition of military flogging; and he assured the hon. Member that he would not waste the time of the House by introducing the motion if he did not intend to press for a division.
 Mr. Lennard  observed, that as the hon. and gallant Member for Barnstaple (Major Fancourt) had already placed a notice on the Motion-book, with the intention of bringing forward the subject of military flogging when the Mutiny Act should be brought before the House, it was not his intention to trench upon the ground which that hon. and gallant Member, had thus occupied. The only object which he had in view at the present moment in moving for the returns for which he was about to ask was to obtain such information upon the subject as would put the House in possession
 885 886 887
 Mr. Herbert B. Curteis  had long been convinced that the practice of flogging the army ought to be abolished, at least during the time of peace: with respect to its infliction during a war, and its absolute necessity to preserve discipline when the troops were on foreign service, he would offer no opinion; but as far as regarded its abolition whilst the peace continued he was the determined and constant advocate of that alteration in the Mutiny Act, and had on all occasions voted for it. He strongly approved of the motion, to which he would beg to add an amendment, which the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said he did not object to— [ No, no. 888
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was sorry his hon. Friend had entered so much at large upon the question to which the returns moved for referred, as he had been led to believe such was not his intention, but that he merely meant to move for the returns specified, and which he had intimated to him his noble Friend the Secretary-at-War, was ready to grant. The present was not fit time to enter upon the consideration of the great question of military flogging, and he wished very much that his hon. Friend had waited until the proper opportunity had developed itself. He had no objection to furnish the returns required. There would be some difficulty in obtaining the details required by the hon. Member as to the number of times the same man bad been, punished; but he would take such means as were within his power to obtain the returns correctly from each regiment, in order that the object of his hon. Friend might be answered. With respect to the observations which had escaped his hon. Friend as to the fatal result of the recent cases of punishment, he must say that there was nothing at present before the House to warrant them in believing that death had ensued from the actual flogging; and it was incumbent on them to be in possession of the facts before any judgment was pronounced upon them.
 Mr. Robinson  expressed his utter abhorrence of the practice of military flogging; and he never could be persuaded by any returns showing its diminution, either that it ought to be continued, or that the House, relying upon the humanity of the officers of the army, ought to be satisfied so long as the slightest vestige of so dreadful a practice remained on the statute-book. Two dreadful examples of its fatal inefficiency had recently occurred at Woolwich; they certainly could not at present be made a subject of consideration by the House, because the case was now undergoing investigation, but when the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. C. Fergusson) declared that the facts were not sufficiently before the House for them to form a judgment upon them, he must take the liberty of telling him that if those men had not been flogged, their deaths would not have ensued in such a manner and at this time. The whole array system was defective and re-
 889
 General Sharpe  said, that he was far from being an advocate, abstractedly speaking, for the practice of flogging; but he was afraid, indeed he was certain, that the description of punishment recommended in its stead would go much further to degrade the soldier than the punishment now in practice. He denied that the punishment of flogging so far degraded a soldier that he could never after be respected or respect himself. He would state facts in support of his opinion. As one instance, he could name a case when he commanded a regiment of Dragoons during the war. He happened to be brigaded with another regiment, in which the gallant Member for Bath (General Palmer) then served. In that regiment there was a soldier who had been flogged for drunkenness, but who had afterwards conducted himself so well that he was made a non-commissioned officer, and was subsequently raised to the rank of sergeant-major. In the regiment which he (General Sharpe) commanded, an Adjutant was at that time wanted, and he applied to the noble Earl who commanded the other regiment to know if he could spare his sergeant-major, who appeared to be a most efficent non-commissioned officer. The noble Earl replied that he could; but that he felt it his duty to state that the man had once been flogged for drunkenness. Having regard to the character of the crime for which the man had been punished, and his subsequent good conduct, which had raised him to the rank of sergeant-major, he (General Sharpe) did not hesitate to take him into his regiment as his Adjutant, which rank of course entitled him to associate with the other officers of the regiment on a perfect equality. In this situation he
 890
 Mr. Hume  was surprised at the assertion of the hon. and gallant Member, that there was nothing degrading in being flogged; and he could not but regret that the opinion of the gallant General should be formed upon an isolated case, opposed as it was to so many, which should induce him to arrive at quite a different conclusion. However, this was not the time to enter upon the discussion of so wide a subject. He should, however, express his conviction that the time had arrived when that House should interfere to put an end to such a system. If the Government did not interfere to put an end to this abominable practice, that House would be obliged to interfere, and tell both the Government and the officers of his Majesty's service, that the soldiers should no longer be subjected to the infliction of a punishment so degrading. He wished to know from his right hon. Friend below him, when they might expect the Report of the Commissioners.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that his noble Friend, the Secretary of War, was most anxious to forward the Report of the Commission; and in answer to an application made within the last few days to persons connected with that Commission, his noble Friend had been informed that within a week it might be expected the Report would be in the hands of his Majesty's Ministers.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the individuals employed on that Commission had been engaged most industriously in the duties assigned to them. Not one moment had been lost, and he believed their labours had been brought to a termination. He could not say how long this Report might be in the hands of the printers, but he had little doubt but it would be in the hands of the Government before the expiration of a week.
 Major Fancourt  rose for the purpose of offering only one suggestion. The surgeon of the regiment was always present when these punishments were inflicted, and exercised such humanity in the amount of punishment as the nature of the case might require. This, however, was done only at the moment. Perhaps it would be desirable if, previously to the infliction of the punishment, the surgeon were to inquire into the previous general state of health. This might be the means of preventing the occurrence of death, as happened in some recent cases. This might prevent the infliction of a heavier punishment than was contemplated by the Court-martial.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  had served some years in the Scotch Greys, and scarcely ever saw this punishment inflicted in the regiment. Those who were anxious, as all officers must be, to preserve the character of a regiment, would have recourse to it as seldom as possible. With respect to the punishment of solitary confinement and hard labour, there was this objection to it, that it would have the effect of punishing the innocent for the guilty; for the innocent men would have to do the duty of the guilty during their confinement. He would object to the return, as not being full enough. There should be also a return stating the general character of the men, and the circumstances under which the punishment was awarded. It could not be denied, that the fear of this mode of punishment had a great effect upon the soldiers. He feared it would be impossible to do away altogether with military flogging, and at the same time to preserve the discipline of the army. He knew, in the early period of his service, a distinguished officer upon whom it had been inflicted.
 Mr. O'Connell  emphatically denied that flogging was either necessary or effectual for the purpose of what the gallant Officer was pleased to call "redeeming" the soldiers. And so the gallant Colonel had discovered that the substitution of solitary confinement for flogging would be punish-
 892
 Mr. Wakley  said, that without going into the general question, he should merely observe, in reference to the recent cases at Woolwich, that he had himself seen one of the bodies, and he had never seen stronger proofs of death having ensued from bodily injury. Upon examination of the body, no trace of internal disease could be discovered, and the blush of health was still on the cheek of the corpse. He should not advert to this subject at more length, as he should now give notice that he should, on the morrow, move for a return of the finding of the Jury, and the evidence taken before them. There was an account of the proceedings at the Marine-barracks at this place, in a newspaper of great circulation and influence— he meant  The Weekly Dispatch 893
 Major Beauclerk  had received a letter from Portsmouth, in which it was stated that 4,000 lashes had been inflicted on the men in the corps of marines stationed there, within a twelvemonth. He would, therefore, suggest that the return should be amended so as to include all the marine corps. He knew that it was the opinion of most of the officers in the army that the time had arrived when corporal punishment should be dispensed with. This could only be done satisfactorily in times of peace, and he intreated the Government at least to try the experiment without delay.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that as punishments had been successfully mitigated as regarded civilians, he did not see why such severe punishments in the army should be continued. He understood that the punishment in the marine corps was much more severe than that in the army. In the former, the cat which was used in the navy was used, while in the latter one of a different construction was used. It had been stated that during the Peninsular war, when the bodies of English and Spanish, soldiers were stripped and left together, that the French troops when they came up, could always distinguish the bodies of the English by turning them up, as
 895
 Dr. Bowring  remarked that he visited the town of St. Sebastian soon after it was taken by assault by the English troops, and he had the declarations of the magistrates of the place in his possession, as to the conduct of the soldiers. He had then heard it stated repeatedly, that many officers bad been destroyed in endeavouring to prevent the horrible depredations and crimes which were committed by the English soldiers. He had no doubt that the British officers could have exercised such a control over the soldiers, as to prevent them committing such atrocities, had it not been for the system of flogging. The soldiers of the French army entertained an almost boundless confidence and attachment to their officers, and this chiefly arose from the lightness of the punishment inflicted in that army.
 Mr. Harvey  stated, that when the question was brought forward last year, it was postponed at the suggestion of the noble Secretary at War, who stated that Government had appointed a commission to inquire into the system of military punishments, with a view to see whether a change could not be effected, and that it was desirable to wait for its report. From what the House had that night heard, it appeared probable that a long delay would occur. He trusted, therefore, the House would not allow the matter to rest.
 Mr. R. C. Fergusson  repeated, that all the witnesses that it was intended to call had been examined, and the report was nearly ready to be laid before the House. The investigation had been carried on, in such a way as to throw the most perfect light on the subject.
 Colonel L. Jones Parry  observed, that as one of the oldest officers in the army, he was anxious to trouble the House with a few observations. He believed, that he might quote the authority of Lord Hill, in saying that punishment in the army was declining, and that there was little doubt but that it would within a short time be got rid of altogether. He had served many years in a regiment in a most excellent state of discipline, and during that time he did not recollect a single instance of punishment having been inflicted. As some allusions had been made to the marines—and
 896
 Mr. Blackburne  moved for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances connected with the recent municipal election for the borough of Poole, which had been detailed to the House is the petition that had been printed and circulated amongst hon. Members. The hon. and learned Member adverted to the false return made by the mayor, in consequence of which a majority was given to one party in the town-council, whereas that majority really belonged to the other, and maintained that this was a case which he would undertake to prove if the Committee were granted, the truth of the circumstances which had been mentioned in the petition presented from Poole especially called for the interference of Parliament.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  did not rise to oppose the motion, as he should follow now the same course which he pursued the other evening when this question came before the House. But he hoped the House would allow him to make a few remarks on the observations made, not in
 921 922
 Mr. Hume  said, the question stood just where it did. The hon. and learned Member was elected to that House to take part in its discussions, and by his own confession he was, on this question, incapacitated from fulfilling that duty. He would admit to the hon. and learned Member that there might be an individual case—there might be two or three cases not worth mentioning— but his position remained untouched. He was far from desiring to cast any reproach on the hon. and learned Member, as he had no doubt he acted from the most pure and conscientious motives.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  defended the course pursued by the hon. and learned Gentleman. When Mr. Brougham applied to the House for permission to defend the Queen at the Bar of the House of Lords it was made an express stipulation with him that he should not vote as Member of the House of Commons on the question, and the other Members of the House who acted as counsel gave- the same pledge. He did not think the case of Poole a case in which the House ought to interfere. After what they had heard that night of the disgraceful conduct of the House when exercising judicial functions, he did not think the House would be very likely to redeem itself from that imputation if it set the precedent of interfering with municipal elections. If they did, every case in which parties thought they could raise objections would, instead of being taken to the King's Bench, be brought to that House. And why? Because, if there were
 923 Question. sub silentio, 924
 Mr. Law  thought it was the most inaccurate reasoning imaginable, to conclude that the parties who had not answered the petition by their silence confessed the allegations against them. Might it not, with as much fairness, be presumed that, like many Members of that House, these parties doubted the competence of the House to take into consideration the allegations of the petition until the ordinary tribunals of justice had been found inefficient for that purpose. He saw, in the proposed proceeding, the commence-
 925
 The Solicitor-General : Although the hon. and learned Recorder had deprecated the introduction of political and party spirit into the discussion, he would leave it to the House to say whether, if the subject had been brought on, it had not equally been met, in that spirit. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, it was unfair to presume that because the Mayor had not answered the charges of the petition, that therefore he had confessed his guilt. Why he (the Solicitor-General) did not assume his guilt, conclusively; he only assumed it for the purpose of instituting an inquiry, not for awarding punishment. The petition had been printed eight days; Poole was one day's post from London, and not only had no counter petition arrived, but he did not find any hon. Member instructed to say oil the Mayor's behalf, that he denied the allegations of the petition. He admitted, indeed, that if the Courts of Law were armed with powers of redress, it would be most inexpedient to apply to the House; but at the same time he maintained that, inasmuch as the Committee if appointed, would be bound to report if it appeared to them that the ordinary
 926
 Mr. Scarlett  contended, that until the Courts of Law had been first tried, and found inadequate to the ends of justice, it would be highly improper in that House to grant the proposed inquiry. If, however, it was granted in the case of the borough of Poole, his constituents in Norwich would lose no time in demanding a similar investigation into the appointment of its existing corporation.
 Mr. Blackburne : if the hon. Member for Norwich could bring forward any case from that or any other Borough, of such gross misconduct as that of which he complained, he might rest assured of his hearty support, on a motion for a Committee. He did not bring forward the case, as the hon. and learned Recorder said, for the purpose of punishment, but to prevent the mischief; to enable the In habitants of Poole to do that which the Act of last Session intended they should do —elect their own municipal officers, and get rid of those persons which had been palmed on them, under the pretence of that Act, and who, till removed by the Legislature, had the power of doing any thing they thought proper, and, for aught they knew, intended to get rid of the whole Corporate property. He did not want the facts stated in the petition to be taken as true, but only so far taken to be true, after the opportunity of answering them, afforded by the printing of the" petition, as to grant an inquiry; and if, on inquiry, they should be borne out, (and he pledged himself that they should) then he could not conceive that he House would not grant him relief. If he courts of law could effect the object had in view, he would not have thought of the present Motion, but as no court of Law could grant relief if the House did not interfere, it was impossible that justice could be done.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that for the House to draw to itself the jurisdiction of
 927 Cries of Question.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that seeing no disposition on the part of the House to carry on the Debate with fairness to both sides, he felt called upon to move that the House should forthwith be adjourned.
 Mr. Charles Buller  moved, "that Mr. Sergeant Jackson be now heard."
 Mr. T. Duncombe  proposed, that both sides should draw lots, whether the original Motion for adjournment or the amendment should be adopted.
 Mr. Wynn  contended, that the conduct of the Ministerial side of the House, in attempting to force on a discussion at that late hour, after they had by their interruptions at first suspended it, and the Opposition benches had become thinned in consequence, was aiming a vital blow at the privileges of Parliament.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  moved, that the debate be adjourned till five o'Clock the next day.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that before he suggested to the House the course which it appeared to him most expedient to recommend, he felt it but justice to the Friends around him, to the House, and to the public, that he should recall to the memory of hon. Members what had this night occurred, and should define accurately the position in which they were now placed. On a former night his hon. and Learned Friend (Mr. Black-burne) had presented a petition, alleging fraudulent and corrupt practices as existing at the late election for Poole. The petition had been presented, and this night was fixed by notice for its discussion.
 928
 Mr. Wakley  contended that the con-
 929
 Mr. Wynn  thought the hon. Member for Finsbury was taking rather too high ground when he interfered with the privileges of the House. He could recollect when Mr. FOX divided the House twenty-five times in one night.
 Mr. Fox Maule  also supported the Amendment, and trusted the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Maxwell) would withdraw his motion.
 Lord Francis Egerton  rose to present a petition, signed by seventy of the largest paper-manufacturers in the kingdoms, some of them his own constituents, and paying, he believed, more than half the whole amount of revenue flowing into the Exchequer under that head. They were anxious that the case they had to present to the House should be considered at the present moment, thinking, as he presumed correctly, this was the period when the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer should naturally and peculiarly be directed to the financial arrangements of the year. They had reason, in common, he believed and hoped, with the public at large, to suppose that the revenues of the country offered some prospect of enabling the right hon. Gentleman to effect a reduction in imposts to some considerable amount, and they wished to show to the House the reasons they had for supposing that their case yielded perhaps to none in urgency, and possessed claims on the attention of Government which could, whether in justice or expediency, be postponed to no other. The petition contained three principal grounds of complaint;—first, it complained that the amount of duty imposed on this manufac-
 871 ad valorem 872 d. d. 873 s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. 874
 Lord John Russell  appeared at the Bar, and acquainted the House that Ms Majesty having been waited upon with the Address of that House, was pleased to return the following most gracious answer:— "William Rex.—I willingly assent to the prayer of the Address of my faithful Commons, that I will be pleased to take such measures as may seem to me advisable for the effectual discouragement of Orange Lodges and generally of all political societies, excluding persons of a different religious faith, using secret signs and symbols, and acting by means of associated branches. It is my firm intention to discourage all such societies in my dominions, and I rely with confidence on the fidelity of my loyal subjects to support me in this determination."
 Mr. Bannerman : I am glad that the Member for the county of Aberdeen has chosen to oppose this Bill on its second reading, because if the House shall agree with him in thinking that its principle is unjust, and that it forms a dangerous precedent, it will of course be thrown out at this stage, which will save its promoters, the Magistrates and citizens of Aberdeen, whom I have the honour to represent, a great deal of unnecessary trouble and expense in a Committee up stairs. It becomes necessary for me, therefore, shortly to explain to the House the nature of this Bill. It is entitled a Bill for the erection of Public Schools in the city of Aberdeen; and to enable the corporation to erect such schools, they apply to Parliament to sanction the appropriation of 6,000 l. l. l. s. d. 865 l. 
 
 1791 Building bridges at Ellon and Yttan, sixteen miles distant from Aberdeen £52 10 0 
 Repairing roads 100 0 0 
 1793. A superb gold snuff-box to Mr. Secretary Dundas 105 0 0 
 1797. Engraving plans 53 0 0 
 1798. Voted aid to Government 157 10 0 
 1799. Improving roads 200 0 0 
 Copy plan of a new Bridewell at Glasgow 50 0 0 
 1802. Act of Parliament for a House of Correction 100 0 0 
 1805. Law plea about roads 68 0 0 
 Patriotic fund at Lloyd's 52 0 0 l. 866 l. l. l. 867
 Mr. Bannerman  moved the second reading of the Aberdeen Public Schools Bill.
 Mr. Bannerman  observed, they had no Court of Chancery in Scotland.
 Colonel Perceval  rose for the purpose of intimating his intention to follow the same course. He had now for three successive Sessions been called upon to enter his protest against the Bill which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite seemed so desirous to force down their throats, which might most properly be described as a vote for the encouragement of clandestine marriages in Ireland. He protested against (he introduction of the measure, and should give it every opposition in his power.
 Mr. Pringle  opposed the Bill, on the ground that it went to effect an entire diversion of the funds from the purposes to which the donor intended them to be applied.
 Sir Andrew Leith Hay  did not rise to frustrate the intentions of his hon. Friend, nor to bring forward any case to disprove what he had said with respect to the Statute Labour Roads in Scotland. But he could not think it would be advantageous to have a Committee appointed for the purpose of investigating the state of those Roads merely in a particular district; the proper course would be, in his opinion, to have a Committee on the whole subject generally, to take into consideration the public and private Acts under which they were at present placed, and the Amendments which it would be desirable to make in them. It was quite impossible that one Act, of the description proposed by his hon. Friend, could be made generally applicable to the whole of the country; and it would be, he had no doubt, the opinion of the House, that before they proceeded to alter the law in this particular, they should know what the law in general really was, and so be enabled to form enactments which would be beneficial to the whole community: he should, therefore, move as an Amendment, "That Select Committee be appointed to investigate the several Acts, public and private, regarding Statute Labour in Scotland, and the manner in which the conversion is exacted or levied, and applied to the several counties respectively; and to consider how the existing laws may be amended, and report thereon to the House."
 Mr. Lynch  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal so much of the Act 19, George II., c. 13 (Irish), as amends and makes void all marriages celebrated by any Papist priest between Protestant and Catholic. He did not anticipate any opposition to the bringing in of the Bill, and he would not therefore trouble the House with any remarks in its present stage.
 Mr. Lynch  rose to bear testimony to the great benefits which had resulted, and continued to result, from the operation of the Act of 1831, referred to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. For that Act the people of Ireland were largely indebted to him, and he (Mr. Lynch) was glad to find that his right hon. Friend was determined to follow up and pursue the plan for the promotion of public works in Ireland so wisely adopted by the House at his recommendation, and that of the noble Lord, then Secretary for Ireland. If he (Mr. Lynch) was not previously convinced of the absolute necessity of a wide and extensive measure of this description, the evidence which was given before the Committee of last year would have produced that conviction. The great want of Ireland was the want of employment for the people—the great misfortune of that country was the low price of labour. Notwithstanding the suppression of religious discord, an event which he trusted was now about to be accomplished, Ireland could never be tranquil or happy until the situation of the peasant and the labouring man was improved. This could only be done by education, and increasing the demand for his labour. Do that, and the revenue of the country would be increased. Do so, and the demand for English manufacture will also be increased. Do that, and the expense for police and the army might be diminished. Do that, and the misery of the poor man would be lessened, and comparative comforts and luxuries given to him. The greatest misery prevailed where there was the least employment, and where the lands were left uncultivated. The county of Mayo was a striking example. In Mayo there was the greatest misery and want—in Mayo there was the least demand for the labour of the poor man—in Mayo there was scarce a year passed without famine and great distress—in Mayo there was more uncultivated than cultivated land. By affording employment at home for the people they would lessen, the emigration to this country, so much complained of. Mr. Griffiths, in his evidence before the Committee, stated that he stopped 500 labourers coming over to this country by affording
 878 879 l.
 Mr. Charles Buller  rose for the purpose of bringing under the attention of the House the present state of the law relating to the trial of controverted elections, and to move for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into it. He was aware that the subject was not of an interesting nature, and that the House might not, perhaps, like to listen to an enumeration of its own misdeeds; but he trusted that attention would be given to him for a short time. He could not help feeling that he should have brought forward his motion with greater advantage during the last Session, when Members had to attend Election Committees, and when their attention was much directed to the subject. At that time many Members on both sides of the House admitted that they found the present system to be inconvenient, and exclaimed loudly against its injustice. If the feelings of hon. Gentlemen had somewhat moderated since then, still he trusted that they had not altogether passed away, but that they were willing to enter upon the consideration of the subject and would devote to him for a short time their serious attention. Some Members might feel shocked at a proposal to make at once a complete change in the system of trying controverted elections; but although he was satisfied that such a course of proceeding would be expedient, still he did not intend to do so, but merely wished to move for a Committee of Inquiry. Before the Grenville Act was passed; the House assumed to itself the right of exercising a jurisdiction in matters of election petitions, and determining in such cases, in the same numbers and the same forms in which it decided political questions, who was entitled to a seat in Parliament. The decision of the House was then come to under the same party feelings as operated on Members' minds in other matters, and a decision in a case of contested ejection was a party triumph.
 897 898 naive 899 l l l l l l 900 901 902 903 s 904 ex officio 905
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  said, he thought Scotland greatly indebted to his hon. Friend for bringing forward this subject; nevertheless he considered the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Edinburgh, would do much more to correct the evil so justly complained of throughout that country; he therefore hoped after the Amendment which had just been moved, that the hon. Member who had made the original Motion (to whose motives he gave the fullest credit) would consent to withdraw it.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had understood that the hon. Member had given notice of this question for to-morrow, but he was prepared to answer it now. The fact was, there was a misapprehension of what had been stated by his noble Friend in another place; what his noble Friend said was, that there was no intention to alter the timber duties at present, but he did not mean to convey that no measure would be introduced on the subject in the present Session. Any measure to be introduced this year would be operative only in the year 1837,
 876
 Mr. Shaw  did not approve of the state of the marriage law as at present existing in Ireland; but it should be dealt with on a much more comprehensive and general way than was proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman. It world be far better if the Crown lawyers in that House would take up the question. The effect of the hon. and learned Member's Bill would be to remove that which was at present the only check to clandestine marriages in certain cases, and would put the Roman Catholic clergy on a better footing than those of the Established Church.
 Mr. G. F. Young  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade. A question had been put to a noble Lord (the Marquess of Lansdowne) in another place on the subject of the intentions of Government with respect to the Timber Trade. It was understood from the answer, as it was published, that it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any measure on the subject of the Trade in the present Session. He wished to hear from the right hon. Gentleman how the fact was.
 Mr. Aglionby  called the attention of the House to the delay which now took place between the return and the ballot for the Committee. He thought the matter should be more speedily settled. He wished to know whether the Committee to be appointed was to take into consideration this part of the law. There were two points which he thought especially deserving of its attention. The first was the present mode of taking the recognizances. The parties were not allowed to lodge money in the hands of the officer, but were called on to give in the names of sureties. Now he himself, when serving on a Committee had been compelled to vote against his own conviction upon a mere technical objection raised by Counsel, though the merits of the case were quite on the other side. Then, with respect to presenting petitions, any person might present a vexatious petition against the return of a Member without the least responsibility to prosecute it afterwards. He had known that to be done for years, in order to prevent Members from being eligible to sit on Committees within the number of days prescribed by law. He wished that the Committee should direct their attention to this part of the subject, and would propose, if the House thought it necessary, in order to include the points to which he had referred., that after "the law of controverted elections" should be inserted the words
 914
 Mr. S. Mackenzie  supported the Bill.
 Mr. John Maxwell : In bringing forward a Motion for the regulation of Statute Labour in Scotland, I anticipate the opposition of those who admire irresponsible power, who benefit by the abuses it seeks to terminate, and also by those who think they know a better remedy than the one it contemplates, besides that of those who wish the continuance of abuses, that they may have some end advanced by declaiming: against them, have not the presumption to say, that my proposed measure of relief is the best that can be devised, or to deny that it is capable of improvement. All I pretend to say in its favour is, that it embraces the principle of taxation and representation, and affords publicity, control of expenditure to parties contributing the expended funds, and appeal from parties interested to a disinterested tribunal, when the general interest requires such resource. I leave the existing qualification of trustees intact. Many of them being interested in more than one parish, secures to the county a better prospect of ail parish communications being adequately maintained, and a greater probability of comprehensive and reflected views of good general management and united arrangements, than a tenant of land or house, or even a small landowner. To these, however, as locally the best acquainted with the wants of the parish, and as directly charged with maintaining them, and constantly affected by the frugal and impartial expenditure of the road-money, or the reverse, I propose to afford to them the representation of their interests, and the control of their contributions, which the power of electing trustees would confer. Although the tenant of land or house may be held to bargain for so much less rent when he offers to the landlord to occupy the property as the rote imposes on it, be does so with expectation to have the parish road to his residence fairly supported by that rate. It is hard that he should do so for a long; lease, and, if the
 882 l. l. l. 883
 Mr. Maxwell  was most happy to find that his Majesty's Government were willing to take up the question, and willingly yielded to the suggestions of the influential Members for Scotland who had just spoken.
 The Lord Advocate  said, there are a great variety of subjects which are recommended to the consideration of the Legislature by the two Reports of the Law Cora mission for Scotland, and by the Report of the Municipal Commission, and it will be my duty, as soon as the time of the House will permit, to lay before the House for their consideration, and that of the country, such bills as may appear calculated to carry those recommendations into effect. There are, however, other bills which have been already under the consideration of the House, and which were not passed last Session owing to the various urgent and important matters which then occupied the time of the Parliament, but which ought now to be brought under consideration of the House Without delay. The first is a bill for regulating the sequestration of the estates of bankrupts in Scotland. That bill has been before this House in various forms for a great number of years. There were points of very great difficulty, which produced differences between different portions of the profession, and a contention as to principles, which it was not easy to reconcile and carry into practical operation. It was absolutely necessary that there should be somewhere a general superintendence and control over all sequestrations, to what-
 915 916 917 918 cessio bonorum. 919
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the complaint urged against the present system was the want of knowledge on the part of the Members of Committees, and the existence of party feeling, but he thought the remedy proposed by the hon. Gentleman who introduced the Motion would combine both these evils. He objected to a permanent Chairman, for though, from long experience in his office, he would acquire a knowledge of law that would give authority and consistency to his decisions, yet he would not be surrounded by sufficient responsibility, for he would share his responsibility with the other Members of the Committee. The decisions of the Committee would, in a great degree, be governed by the opinions of the Chairman but though his influence would, of course, thus be considerable, he would merely possess the same degree of responsibility as any other Member of the Committee. The remedy which he would suggest might not, at first view, be acceptable to the feeling of the House, but he was convinced that the more it was considered, the more it would be approved. His proposal was, that they should select a Judge, one of the twelve Judges, if they approved of it, whose whole duty should be to decide cases of this description, and who should have nothing whatever to do with any other Court. The high situation which he held—the publicity with which he discharged his functions—his knowledge of the law, and his perfect responsibility— would give to the decisions of such a functionary the strongest claims to public confidence, That justice was fairly adminis-
 913
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was thought by some that advantage would arise to Ireland if Government would advance money there at a lower rate of interest than ordinary; but this was an error, for if it was allowed that Ireland wanted the aid of capital from private individuals, and it confessedly did, great danger and inconvenience to the country at large would arise by interfering with the rate of their supply, which was ten times the yearly amount that Government afforded by these loans. He indulged no bad will to Ireland in the expression of this opinion, which he felt convinced was the true view of the case.
 Mr. Hume  said, that having sat for twelve years as Member for Aberdeen, though he never got a vote from the old town during that time, he felt naturally anxious that the House would pass an Act like the present, calculated to promote the interests of the people there.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  begged to give the hon. and learned Member notice that
 920
 Colonel Jones Parry  thought the House exceedingly indebted to the hon. and learned Gentleman for bringing this subject under its notice. To illustrate the evils of the present system, he might mention a case in which a friend of his was told by another party concerned, "You need not defend this petition, for myself and another man equally wealthy are paying the expenses." There were sporting petitions, and such things as knocking the brains out of the Committee,
 Mr. Bernal  had heard the observations and arguments of the hon. Member for Liskeard with the greatest pleasure, and he thought while the hon. and learned Member hail done himself honour, he had also done the House great service, by the introduction of the present motion. He was also exceedingly happy to hear that the motion received the approbation of the hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, because anything that fell from that hon. Member, the more particularly on this subject, was entitled to great weight. He did not wish to throw any impediment in the way of the Committee, but he feared it was almost impossible to find an adequate remedy for the existing evils unless by a revision of the whole of the election laws. Committees of the House of Commons did not consider themselves to be under the necessity or obligation of being bound by the same rules with respect to evidence as those which regulated the decisions of the Courts of Law. The Judges who presided in those Courts considered themselves bound to follow a regular continuous chain of evidence, That was not the rule which had
 911
 Mr. Potter  supported the motion. In 1831 he had petitioned against the return for Wigan, and relying on the argument and statement of his counsel, believed he was sure of success. But while he was carrying on the contest with the greatest confidence, he received a letter from a friend at Wigan condoling with him on his defeat. In fact, the decision of the Committee, which had astonished the lawyers, was not given till after he received the letter, On inquiry he found that a Member of the House had written to his friend at Wigan, immediately on the Committee being struck, to inform him that six Tories were placed on it, and there was not a shadow of a chance of success; and that Member who could read the decisions of Committees by the individuals composing them, was quite right in his views.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, that from his own experience he could bear testimony that the hon. Gentleman had not exaggerated in the statement he had made. With regard to the remedy proposed, he thought it impossible that any tribunal should be able to deal with a question of law which did not possess some knowledge of what the law was on which it was called upon to decide. He thought that, before entering into any question as to what kind of tribunal they should establish, their first duty was to inquire into the state of the law with reference to this subject, and to simplify and improve that.
 Mr. Greene  thought, that whether they looked at the ordinary duty of 3 d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he did not rise to offer any objection whatever to the case which the noble Lord had so ably stated on behalf of the paper manufacturers. His noble Friend had omitted nothing which could excite the attention of the House and the Government to it. The fact was, that the subject was at the present moment under the consideration of Government, and if he omitted to enter into the discussion of the question at the present moment, it was not because he did not attach importance to it, but because he thought that nothing could be more injudicious than the premature disclosure of the intentions of Government with respect to the fiscal regulations which were to affect any branch of our manufactures. He trusted the House would rest satisfied with the assurance that the subject
 875
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to call the attention of the House to the report of the Commissioners of the Shannon, and the recommendations which they had made, pursuant to the order of last Session, for the guidance of the Government in the measures about to be laid before Parliament for facilitating loans for the purpose of aiding both public and private works in that country. He did not go the length of agreeing in the whole of their suggestions, but the Bill which he had since prepared, and hoped to be able to lay before the House in a few days, embodied the most valuable and practical of their propositions. These he would willingly carry into effect, without respecting the appropriation of the monies, and would (under the sanction of such arrangements as he soon expected to see carried into effect) have no hesitation in asking the confidence of the House to enable him to issue Exchequer bills in aid of the public works of Ireland. "When he received Colonel Burgoyne's communications, which were yet required to complete the requisite information, he should bring in his Bill, which he should, wish his hon.
 877
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed that some alteration in the charges might be justly and beneficially effected. For instance, he did not think it fair that the borrowers should pay all the expenses of the Board, as the charges of other departments than those of public loans were now borne by it; and he would take care to
 880
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he only spoke the sentiments of every Member of that House when he expressed the satisfaction which he felt at hearing the clear and able statement which his hon. and learned Friend had just made. He was not only satisfied with the arguments which his hon. and learned Friend had adduced, but the mode in which he had dealt with a question so important in itself, and with which he had taken such pains, and on which he had displayed so much impartiality. No person who was conversant with the subject could deny that some improvements were necessary, and he did not think there was a Member of that House who did not feel the evils of the present state of the election law, and wish to provide against them. If a foreigner had heard the statements of his hon. and learned Friend he might be induced to suspect that they were exaggerated; but, for his own part, he could enumerate many cases which would go the whole length of those statements. The statements of his hon. and learned Friend did not require much to support them, and, without wishing to add to the catalogue of facts which his hon. and learned Friend had laid before the House, he could not refrain from mentioning one or two cases to show the total incompetence of Election Committees as at present constituted. He by no means wished to impute to these tribunals any unfair dealing; but to show that the inconsistency of their decisions was the result of incompetence, and did not proceed from any want of desire to do full and ample justice. The first Committee
 906 907
 Mr. William Campbell  differed  toto cœlo
 Mr. Ewart  was of opinion, that a legislative judicature was the worst species of judicial tribunal they could have. He suggested the establishment of a legal tribunal, isolated from the House of Commons, to be appointed by the House, and though not an integral portion of it, connected with it. Such a tribunal would be the most likely to give satisfaction.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  was happy to hear that such improvements were in the contemplation of Government for Ireland, but he "must enter his protest against the principle laid down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that because the rate of interest was higher there than in England, the rate of charge on the loan should be proportionately high. How could they expect to encourage improvement in Ireland, if they sent Commissioners there in the capacities of Jews, to extort from the improving and industrious the highest premium from their pecuniary necessities? There were no private money-lenders there for such purpose, or whom the
 881
 Sir Frederick Pollock  entirely concurred in the opinion of the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this Motion as to the necessity of seriously considering this subject. He would ask any Gentleman who had ever attended election Committee whether their present mode of proceeding was satisfactory either to the House or to the public. When they were evincing the fullest anxiety out of doors, that justice should be administered in the most satis-
 912
 Mr. Williams Wynn  concurred in the sentiments which the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down bad expressed, and must bear his testimony to the ability, industry, and, above all, good temper, with which the subject had been brought before
 908 909 910
 Lord Sandon  said, that the general practice in cases of this kind was to refer the appropriation of the accumulated surplus to the decision of the Court of Chancery.
 Lord Sandon  said, they had surely a Court possessed of analogous powers there, and it was to such a tribunal, and not to that House, the appropriation of this money should be referred.
 Mr. Curteis  hoped and trusted, that Government would immediately take the matter into their consideration. It was the bounden duty of Ministers not to lose a single hour in obtaining the highest legal opinion, as to whether the Poor-law Commissioners were right or wrong in the committal of this poor woman as an idle and disorderly person. It would be most satisfactory to him, as a country gentleman, not having had the benefit of a legal education, to know what was the opinion of the law-officers of the Crown upon the point.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  wished to take that opportunity of correcting several statements which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. P. Thomson) the President of the Board of Trade, with respect to what he had stated at a public meeting upon the subject of the Timber Duties. The right hon. Gentleman had stated during his absence, that he should have wished to put a question to him had he been present—namely, whether a report he the President of the Board of Trade, had read in the newspapers of a speech which he (Mr. Alderman Thompson) was supposed to have made at a
 948
 Mr. J. Blackburne  moved that the adjourned debate on the borough of Poole be resumed.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the House would give him credit for meaning what he said, when he assured them that he had no intention of trespassing at any length upon their indulgence. But he could not allow the debate to conclude without calling attention to the real cause of the difference of opinion existing on the subject now under the consideration of the House. The real difference was that between the principle of absolutism and that of constitutional liberty. Yet there was not one word of that in the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford, because the cause of Don Carlos was that of absolutism, and that of Christina was the cause of constitutional liberty. There was something unnatural too in the alliance that had been formed in support of the cause of Don Carlos, That prince was so much of a
 975 976 l. 977
 Colonel Thompson  said, that as an officer in his Majesty's service, and he believed he might say, without risk of error, holding also a place in the establishment of the British legion in the United Kingdom, for his insertion in the list had only been delayed by accidental circumstances, he wished to offer some observations to the House, He could not but thank the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down for the courtesy with which he had dealt with this question. Having, he believed, access to as complete information on every thing connected with the British legion as any man in this country, he should endeavour, with equal courtesy, to make some statements in reply. The first appearance of the legion before the enemy was at Hernani. There were always difficulties in deciding when and how a new-raised force should be brought before the enemy. If it was not brought at all., the question was asked, how it was ever to learn; and if it was brought, there was always a danger of failure. At Hernani the legion was brought before a position which was found too
 985 986 987 common
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that it appeared to him that the case which the hon. and gallant Officer had brought before the House was one which it would have been much more expedient to have referred to the consideration of that department of the Government to which he (Mr. Fox Maule) belonged; for although he was one of those who would never interpose to prevent an appeal to that House, where wrong had been endured, or injustice inflicted, the at all times, thought it tended much to the establishment of a very inconvenient as well as dangerous precedent, that the time of the House should be taken up, when there was another tribunal to which the party complaining might appeal. He believed that the whole of the difficulty in the case had arisen out of an error in the first order issued by the Magistrates. In that order, instead of "Mrs. Champion and children," the word "and" was accidentally omitted, and thus
 946
 Lord John Russell  said, if it were the disposition of the House that the debate which was interrupted at four o'clock this morning should be resumed, he should be quite ready to acquiesce,
 Lord John Russell : I also must state to the House, that I had this morning the honour to transmit to his royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland a copy of the votes of this House, containing the Address of the Commons to his Majesty on the subject of Orange-lodges, and also the gracious answer of his Majesty to that Address, and I have had the honour to receive from his Royal Highness the following reply:
 "St. James's Palace, Feb. 26, 1836. "MY LORD—I have received your Lordship's letter with the enclosed printed copies of the resolutions of the House of Commons containing an address on the subject of Orange lodges, and other similar societies, together with his Majesty's most gracious answer. Before I had received your Lordship's communication I had already taken steps, in conjunction with several official and distinguished members of the Loyal Orange Institution in Ireland, to recommend its immediate dissolution, in conformity with the loyal principles of that institution. I have only to add I shall take immediate steps to dissolve the Loyal Orange Institution in Great Britain. "I have the honour to be, yours sincerely, "ERNEST." "To the right hon. Lord John Russell."
 Lord John Russell  said, he had been misunderstood. He moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee, that being the usual course; but when the hon. and learned Member for Huddersfield (Mr. Blackburne) moved the resumption of the debate on the Poole case, he had expressed a wish to give way. What the right hon. Gentleman had just said relating to the importance of the question, rather convinced him (Lord John Russell) the more, that the House had better come to a decision upon that question first, while the House was well attended. He therefore asked leave to withdraw his motion.
 Major Beauclerk  thought that the time of the House was never lost in inquiring into cases where the liberty of the subject had been trespassed upon. He certainly could not help regarding the Poor-laws Amendment Act, in its present shape, as a most atrocious law, and one which called loudly upon the Legislature for amelioration and improvement. In the present case, it appeared that the husband was transported for seven years. That was no fault in the wife. Yet, under this Act, the Magistrates, it would seem, had it in their power to punish the wife for the crime of the husband. This might be law, but it was not justice. He thought that the Poor-law Commissioners, when they found the law operating in this obviously unjust manner, ought to come forward themselves to suggest improvements. It ought to be the wish and endeavour of all parties to make this new law operate usefully and beneficially, instead of harshly and oppressively.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that no one assertion was more often made use of by Gentlemen opposite, against proceeding farther with the debate at four o'clock this morning, than that the question at issue was a great constitutional question. Now he apprehended, if hon. Gentlemen opposite were sincere in that declaration, they
 951
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was glad to hear from his hon. Friend, that he had not, at the meeting referred to, made use of any language calculated to impair that friendship which he was proud existed between them. His hon. Friend being now present, he would shortly restate what he had stated last evening, namely, that there was no discrepancy whatever between what had been stated by his noble Friend in another place, and what he himself had stated in his place in that House—that it was not the intention of Government to
 949
 Mr. Maclean  said, that as the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee had been moved, he should certainly persevere in bringing forward his motion on the subject of Spain.
 Mr. Maclean  said, that as his motion was fixed to come on upon the question of going into a Committee of Supply, upon that question being put, it would have been most inconvenient to postpone it, and he might have lost the opportunity ever to bring it forward. He was deeply impressed with the importance of the question he was about to submit to the House; so much so, indeed, that he should imagine a stranger, coming down to the House, would be astonished to find any hesitation as to which should be first considered,— this question, or one respecting the corporation of Poole. He hoped the House would give him credit for sincerity, when he stated that no one could be more sensible of his want of ability to do justice to this great question than the individual who was then addressing them; but when he found that the course of policy which had been pursued on that question by his Majesty's Government was one which, in his opinion, ought carefully to have been avoided, contravening, as it did, all former policy observed by this country with regard to any interference with foreign nations; when he found that the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had taken a course not warranted by any precedent in the history of this country; when he found that the consequences of the struggle now going on in the northern provinces of Spain, were likely to implicate the honour of this country, he did hope that the House would think this was a question that immediately called for their attention. But, without insisting further on the importance of the subject, he could not avoid, before stating his own views, adverting to what passed on a former occasion—he meant the debate which took place on the motion of his noble Friend the Member for Hertford (Lord Mahon), during the last Session; and he alluded to that debate because in it he found that the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs did develope to the House the reasons for the policy pursued by him, and did state the arguments which he thought most proper to defend the course which the Government had pursued. The noble Lord stated upon that occasion to the House, that the force which was about to be levied and sent out of this country, by the suspension of the Foreign Enlistment Bill; through the direct inter-
 953 954 ipsissima verba * * 955 l., l., 956 957 * ex cathedra * 958 panacea 959 "The first condition of engaging in any war, the  sine quâ non 960 "When the army of England last fought in Spain, they fought in favour of an united people against a foreign and a common foe. How altered is the case at present! Who is there who could wish to see Englishmen, on entering the Spanish territory, opposed, not to the foes of Spain, but directing their bayonets against Spanish bosoms? This I confess is a sight which I would rather not witness. In one case, perhaps, a feeling of gratitude might be created in the minds of Spaniards, though I confess that upon this point I am not very sanguine; for I recollect, that, though something like gratitude was manifested by the Spaniards for the services rendered by the English during the late war, there was also upon the embarkation of our troops something like a public gratulation that the country had been at length cleared of the presence of those heretics." You may call it bigotry on the part of Spaniards—you may call it ignorance, or what you will, bat still it is in the nature of the Spaniard; and you must deal with man—not as you wish him to be, but as you find him to exist. * "Parcere subject is et debellare superbos." * 961 962 963 964 965 966 967 —"fortiter occupa Portum. Nonne vides, ut Nudum remigio latos, Et malus celeri saucius Africo, Antennæque gemant, ac sine funibus, Vix durare carinæ Possint imperiosius Æquor?—non tibi sunt in tegra lintea.
 Mr. Wodehouse  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer what information he had to give to the House respecting the memorials that were submitted to the Treasury in the course of last year from the maltsters of England and Wales; first, concerning the injury sustained by them from the alteration in the allowance of seventeen and a half per cent, in lieu of twenty per cent, under the operation of the Act of 11 George 4th, referred to in the 15th Report of the Commissioners of Excise Inquiry, page 21, appendix No. 44, No. 49; and also with respect to the prevalence of illicit malting in Ireland, referred to in the same Report, page 55.
 Mr. Henry Maxwell : I am directed by his royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland, to
 947
 Mr. Poulter  declared, that if ever there was any treaty that was clear and specific in all its possible provisions, it was that treaty, and whatever virtually fell short of a complete carrying out of its principle was a virtual abandonment of it. When that treaty was entered into by the contracting powers, Don Carlos was almost an exile from Spain; his arrival here was supposed to be for the purpose of retirement, and not with the view of making it a stepping-stone to the Pyrennees, It was never expected that he would meditate at Alverstoke or Brompton a design to prosecute, at the earliest opportunity, his claim to the Spanish throne; and if such an expectation had been entertained, the country would have been bound to take, and would have taken, steps to prevent the completion of the project. But as it was impossible to prevent it, it was the duty of Great Britain to afford such future assistance, in order to carry the treaty into effect, as should be required. A good deal had been said about mercenaries, and undoubtedly the brave men who had left this country to fight for the Queen of Spain, in one sense, were mercenaries. Those were mercenaries who received  merces, 973 lettres de cachet, 974
 Mr. Wilks  contended that the contemplated change would be attended with flagrant injustice, and referred to the failure of two former attempts of these parties to obtain the Bill now before the House. The cost of those experiments had been most improperly taken by the vestry out of the poor-rates. He was sure that the affairs of the parish could not be better conducted than by the Boards as at present constituted, and he hoped that this Bill would be thrown out by such a majority as to deter the parties promoting it from again annoying the House by a fresh application.
 Mr. Hume  strongly supported the Bill, and expressed his astonishment that his hon. Friend, who was once so decided a Reformer, should resist this Bill, and on. grounds that used to be adopted by all those who were against salutary reforms, and all measures calculated to place in the hands of the people the management of their own affairs. As to the statements that had been made against the Bill, he must take the liberty of saying that there was scarcely one of them that was consistent with the truth. It would be satisfactory to know, more explicitly, what became of the money that was raised. Owing to the division of trusts, there were many places wholly without lights, though though they were paid for; what became of the money? At present there were nineteen trusts, and, of course, nineteen lawyers and nineteen clerks attendant thereupon, and 1,100 Commissioners. Surely benefit and saving must result from the consolidation of these several Boards, &c. As to the civil war that had been mentioned, that would be put an end to at the nest election. The people at present had no control over the Boards. The expense of the Boards was 6,000 l.;
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, if the House had the power of deciding which motion should have precedence, he should vote for the continuation of the debate which was adjourned at four o'clock this morning upon the distinct understanding that it should be resumed again at five o'clock this day. If the hon. and learned Member's motion on Foreign Affairs should in consequence be further postponed, he must blame hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House; he must blame the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. C. Wynn), and his friends, for their frivolous and vexatious opposition at four o'clock this morning. If those Gentlemen were so exceedingly fond of divisions, he would favour them with one upon this occasion, for he would certainly divide the House on the question which motion should have precedence.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  wished to have
 1018 Hear, hear, from Mr. Wynn. 1019
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that on receiving the memorials to which the hon. Gentleman referred, he felt it to be his duty at once to direct an investigation into the facts of the allegations contained in them. Up to the year 1830, he found that the duty on malt was liable to an allowance or reduction of twenty per cant, but while this allowance was made on the one hand, the maltsters on the other were subject to very severe and very inconvenient excise restrictions. In the year 1830, the maltsters themselves proposed that if Government would relieve them from those severe restrictions, that the allowance of twenty per cent should be reduced to seventeen and a-half per cent; and inconsequence an arrangement, based upon these conditions, was carried into effect. He should be prepared on any future occasion, when it might be more convenient to the House, to state what the reasons were which induced him to think that a compliance with the request set forth in the memorial would not be expedient; but it was right that he should lose no time in stating that the effect of the request contained in the memorial, if it were conceded, would be to afford a reduction in the tax of no more
 950 l.
 Mr. Tooke  rose to move, as an amendment, that "six months" be substituted for the word "now." The Bill purported to have the effect of consolidating the Boards; it would have no such effect. On the contrary, it would have the effect of placing the Government of the parish, as regarded the pavements, in the hands of persons who were not calculated, either by their knowledge or property, to give confidence to the parish, The persons who urged forward this Bill had promoted a species of civil war among themselves; and they had endeavoured to excite the like feeling among the inhabitants generally. The parties had not the confidence of the inhabitants; on the contrary, nine-
 940
 Captain Pechell,  in presenting the Petition of which he had given notice, claimed the indulgence of the House, as the case was one that deserved the most serious consideration, being from an unfortunate woman, named Jane Champion, who had been committed to prison by the Magistrates of Seaford for not supporting the children of her husband who had been transported for seven years, leaving his wife unable to provide for them. The Magistrates held that as her husband was civilly dead, she stood in the position of a widow, and was liable to support her family. In so peculiarly novel and distressing a case, he begged at once to state that he by no means intended to cast censure on the Magistrates (who were not Justices of the Peace for the county of Sussex, but Magistrates of a cinque port) who, he believed, had acted to the best of their judgment, and as the law was laid down to them. He must also express his approbation of the manner in which the case had been gone into when he laid it before the Secretary of State and the Board of Poor-law Commissioners, who were complained of in the petition. The petitioner, Jane Champion, was living with her husband at Seaford when he was convicted of receiving stolen goods and sentenced to seven years' transportation, leaving his wife and six young children totally unprovided for. The parish, consequently, gave the necessary allowance, which, however, was discontinued on the Poor-law Amendment Bill coming into operation, and the six children were taken into the workhouse. The mother went to Brighton, where she was obtaining a bare subsistence for herself, when she was taken upon a warrant, signed by the Rev, J. Carnagie, a Magistrate at Seaford, as an idle and disorderly person, and was ordered into the workhouse, on refusing to enter which, she was committed under the Vagrant Act to the House of Correction for twenty-one days. Her period of punishment having expired she returned to Brighton, there again to sustain herself, but still unable to do any thing towards
 944 loud and continued laughter 945
 Captain Pechell  would rest perfectly satisfied under the assurance that the subject should be taken into the immediate consideration of the Government, and that the opinions of the law-officers should be taken upon it.
 Mr. Ward  very much regretted that hon. Members opposite always carefully abstained from bringing this question forward in any tangible shape, which enabled She House to come to a decision upon it. The proper course would be, to visit with the censure of the House those Ministers who had neglected the interests of their country, by laying themselves open to the charge which was to be implied, at least, from the speech of the hon. Member, if that charge were well-founded; and if it were unfounded, to remove such an imputation from them at once, by an expression of the sanction and approval of the House.
 968 969 970 Cheers. 971 972
 Sir John Elley  trusted that the House would afford him its indulgence while he entered upon a few observations connected with this subject, and he would confine himself to the military view of what was taking place in Spain, in consequence of the division which left this country under his gallant Friend General Evans having proceeded thither. He should commence his observations with the landing of the force on the northern shore of Spain. On arriving at St. Sebastian they found the barracks occupied by Spanish troops, but quarters were provided for them. After a short stay they left that town, to reconnoiter the forces of the enemy, in company with some Spanish troops. The advanced corps Was composed of some of the best troops in the Spanish army, and was followed by two battalions under General Evans. They proceeded as far as Hernani, a town about three miles from St. Sebastian, on the Tolosa road, and having made the
 978 979 980 981 982 983 984 l. l.
 Sir John Hobhouse  was sure the House had not expected to find the right hon. Baronet opposite bringing so grave a charge as he had brought against his noble Friend the Secretary for the Foreign Department, and then ending his speech with such an extraordinary attack as that contained in the right hon. Baronet's concluding observations. Not content with terrifying Parliament and the country with the imprudence of the foreign policy pursued by Ministers, and with a laborious endeavour to show the serious
 1014 "No" "No, no." "Great let me call him, For he conquered me," 1015 1016 1017
 Sir Robert Peel : The noble Lord began his speech by a facetious allusion to the surprise which a stranger suddenly spirited into that House would feel at hearing; the present discussion, after having observed the anxiety with which the motion was pressed forward. But what proof does the noble Lord advance of the probable surprise that would be felt by the stranger? Why, this: that a debate, involving important questions of foreign policy, had been suffered to take precedence of a debate on some matters relating to the Municipal Corporation of Poole. If that stranger was a person who took no interest in any other subject, and was entirely engrossed by the question of Corporation Reform, I might possibly be able to understand his astonishment; but to suppose that the stranger would feel surprise that after a month since the assembling of Parliament an humble Member should think it right to call the attention of the House to an important subject of foreign policy, is to suppose such stranger more grossly ignorant than I would be willing to suppose any stranger of common sense to be. The noble Lord says, that the stranger would feel surprise at the anxiety that there was manifested to press this discussion; but if the stranger were made acquainted with our forms, he would see that this discussion did not arise on the proposition of my hon. Friend, but on the noble Lord's opposite, and if the stranger were impartial he must acquit my hon. Friend; for though the noble Lord, as well as myself, was absent from the House last night, yet his duties as leader of the House mast make him perfectly aware of what occurs, and the public must have been fully acquainted with what had taken place. The noble Lord (Lord J, Russell) was the person who moved that
 1006 Hume 1007 l. l 1008 1009 1010 1011 1012 Palmerston 1013
 Sir S. Whalley  said, that the consolidation of the Boards must necessarily lead to a diminution of expense, and a saving of the parish money. While the measure would give the people, which they had not at present, a control over their own affairs.
 Sir S. Whalley  moved the second reading of the St. Pancras Paving Bill.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  apprehended, that a motion having been once put it could not be withdrawn without every single Member agreeing to it.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  must, in the first place, tell the hon. Member for Finsbury that it was not his motion that adjourned the debate. He did not make any motion. He did unquestionably support the adjournment. But he supported it from the spirit which he saw manifested on the Ministerial side, to press a question which appeared to him to be establishing a most dangerous precedent, and calculated to lead to the most tyrannical and oppressive proceedings on the part of a predominant party in that House—whether Whig or Tory; and because he believed that the consequences of the motion made last night would be more fatal than any he had ever known brought forward. He was told, that as it was a great constitutional question he ought to be anxious that it should be brought forward in preference to anything else. He admitted it to be a great constitutional question; but that was no reason why he should be anxious it should be brought forward before any other proceeding, when he resisted it as a most dangerous motion, and one which ought not to be brought forward at all. The motion before the House was, that the Order of the Day be read for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply. That motion must be disposed of before the House could proceed further.
 Lord Mahon,  having been several times mentioned in the course of the debate, and taking the strongest interest in this question, hoped the House would allow him to make a few observations. He must say in the first place, that he adhered to all those opinions which he had expressed, when on a former occasion he had addressed the House on this subject. Nay more, he ventured to think, that experience had confirmed his anticipations, so far as experience had yet gone. He had said that the force then about to be raised would be inadequate to its object. He asked now had that object been attained? He had said that the result of the expedition would not be found to redound to the glory of the British arms. Had any, even the smallest, exploit been achieved? He had anticipated the suffering and privations to which the gallant officer and his troops would be exposed, and he found the reality to exceed his worst anticipations. He had predicted that this expedition would not increase the influence and reputation of this country with Foreign Powers. And how stood the case in that respect? Need be seek any other answer than that which he had received from the noble Lord opposite (Palmerston), with respect to the twenty-seven prisoners at Santander. How low the power of the English Government must be in the estimation of other governments, when even that Government which we were so lavishly assisting with blood and treasure—to which such vast supplies of stores were daily pouring, when even that Government refused the noble Lord the trifling boon for which he applied on the 1st of September. It was a trifling boon to ask as regarded Spain, but the refusal was by no means so trifling to us; it involved the interests of humanity; it involved, at least after the application was once made, the honour of the English name. Now he contended that the failure of the application of the noble Lord to the Spanish government in the instance adverted to, was a most melancholy proof of the want of influence of his Majesty's Government, with a government which under present circumstances he could scarcely call an independent government. He would not follow the hon. and gallant Officers who had last addressed the House, through the military details into which they had entered. He was incompetent to such a task, and therefore he should confine himself to the poli-
 989 990 991 992 993
 Viscount Palmerston  commenced his observations by saying, he was sorry to interfere between his hon. Friend Mr. Thomas Duncombe, who had risen with his Lordship and the House, but be assured him that he should not detain the House so long as to exclude him from an ample opportunity of answering the remarks which had fallen from the other
 994 995 996 Maclean 997 998 999 1000 ever 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005
 Lord Stanley : Sir, I have been so pointedly referred to, both by the right hon. and learned Gentleman who opened this debate, and also by my right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that I feel I should not be justified in abstaining from saying a few words, though I feel, and am satisfied the House will feel with me, that this is not the proper opportunity for entering into a full discussion in the relative merits of the two rival plans submitted for the consideration of this House. [ A laugh from the Ministerial Benches 1091 1092 1093 1094 * * 1095 1096 1097
 Lord Stanley : It may save the learned Gentleman trouble, if I now apprise him that it is intended to debate, and to divide, on a subsequent occasion, on going into the Committee.
 Colonel Conolly  said, that the bad spirit which prevailed in Ireland had not its origin in any jealousy which the Protestants entertained of the Roman Catholics. It was created by the hon. and learned Member who had just addressed the House, and his associates, who went about the country inflaming the passions of the people in order to serve their own interested: purposes. The hon. and learned Member and his associates were constantly declaiming in favour of what they called popular rights, but their real object was the subversion of the Protestant religion, and the dismemberment of the empire. He (Colonel Conolly) felt no jealousy of, Roman Catholics—God
 1101 Order! Order!
 Colonel Conolly  apologised to the House, but must say, in his own justification, that the passions of the lower orders of his countrymen were worked upon in a way which it was horrifying to witness. He would now beg to correct a misstatement which the Attorney-General for Ireland had made with respect to the Corporation of Naas. He had been requested by the Corporation of that town, in the vicinity of which he resided, to state that no bond or any other document had ever been executed for the purpose of transferring property of the Corporation to the patron of that borough. Some years ago it was proposed to convey the corporate property to Lord Mayo, in trust, but that design was never executed.
 1102 1103
 Lord John Russell : I am so perfectly satisfied with the speeches addressed to the House by my right hon. Friends, and they have so fully conveyed my opinions, that I do not consider it necessary to state my reasons for assenting to this plan of reform. I shall only just observe, that if the amendment of the right hon. Baronet be carried, it will be incumbent on us to engage the services of Sir Charles Wetherell, in order to be heard at the Bar of the House against so gross an invasion of rights and property as that which the right hon. Baronet contemplates. So far does the astounding proposition of the right hon. Gentleman exceed any thing ever proposed by us in the way of reform. I shall now state the course proposed to be taken by my right hon. Friend. We propose that the Bill should be road a second time to-night, and go into Committee on Monday next, and I wish to know whether the right hon. Gentleman will embody his proposition in an instruction to the Committee, or whether he will move an amendment in the Committee?
 The Speaker  said, the hon. and gallant Member must be aware that it was disorderly to attribute deception to a Member of that House.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen,  when the Bill relative to Municipal Corporations in Ireland was introduced into this House, it was understood that upon the second reading I should avail myself of the opportunity that would be then afforded to me to state to the House the reasons which, in my humble judgment, ought to induce them to pass this Bill, and to state to them the details of the measure I have
 1020 1021 1022 by law 1023 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1024 l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 Casual and law expenses £3,175 13 4 
 1,314 10 4 
 4,613 13 9 
 483 15 3 
 Total 9,592 12 8 1025 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 Disposable revenue £183,614 15 4 
 Money borrowed and unpaid 86,724 19 6 
 Total £270,339 14 10 
 Sums borrowed and laid out in building and repairing the bridge £31,594 0 0 
 Sums expended for other public purposes 35,182 0 0 
 Total £66,776 0 0 1026 
 
 Total amount received £270,339 14 10 
 Expended 66,778 0 0 
 Not accounted for £203,563 14 10 l. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. 1027 l. "Very great dissatisfaction is felt at the
 Mr. Sheil  thanked the noble Lord for his kindness in intimating the result of his consultation with his new colleagues on the other side of the House, The noble Lord had boldly stated that he put the question on religious grounds. The right hon. Member for Tam worth had not said so much: with his habitual caution and characteristic skill, he had only dealt in insinuations, while the noble Lord, who had not made any proficiency in prudence, even with the aid of so valuable an instructor as the right hon. the Member for Tamworth, with a great deal of frankness, and he hoped with not a little honesty, at once let the truth escape from him, and declared that he would deny to Ireland the same municipal institutions as bad been conferred upon England, from sectarian, or, if he pleased so to call them, from religious considerations. How did this accord with the passage in the speech of the noble
 1098 1099 1100
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the noble Lord had stated that he would not on that occasion discuss the principle of the Bill. Why did he abstain from doing so? What more apt opportunity could be presented and from what motive did he reserve the display of his faculties for another night; Surely the principle of the Bill should be discussed on the second reading, and the details in the Committee. Did the noble Lord intend to invert the natural order of discussion, and debate the details before the principle, and the principle after the details? His right hon. Leader, the Member for Tam worth, had not taken that course, for he had not only gone into the principle of the Bill, but struck directly at its foundation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured
 1077 1078 1079 1080 1081 1082 1083 Cheers 1084 1085 1086 1087 1088 Hear, hear 1089 1090
 Sir Robert Peel : I will state at once that I am desirous to give the House an opportunity of deciding between the two plans submitted to it; and with that view I shall simply move an instruction to the Committee. If the House should negative that, I shall not give the noble Lord much trouble with respect to the details. I will not vote for the second reading of the Bill, though I assent to one of its principles-that on which the extinction of existing abuses is promised, because I totally dissent from the other principle of the Bill; and it appears to me that the best course to ascertain the sense of the House as to the comparative merits of the two measures in this respect, is to move an instruction to the Committee on Monday for the substitution of my proposition in the place of that of the right hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Sir Robert Peel  was desirous to rise at that stage of the Bill, and at that early period of the debate, in order that he might have an opportunity of laying before the House the views which, in common with many others, he entertained with respect to this important measure. He wished to speak at that early period of the discussion, in order that he might be enabled to present those views in a less desultory, in a more connected, in a more dispassionate manner, than he might be able to do if he were to rise at a later period of the debate, amid the excitement of political contention, and after the introduction of topics calculated, from their connexion with party interests, to disturb a calm review of the abstract merits of any particular measure. He wished to rise at that stage of the Bill for the purpose of presenting his views to the House at a period when it was not necessary to pronounce an immediate decision. Feeling fully convinced of the justice of those views, and believing that their adoption would conduce to the impartial administration of justice, and the general good government of Ireland, he was most desirous that a final decision should not be pronounced till full opportunity for the most mature deliberation had been afforded. The matter under discussion was not one of merely local or municipal concern; it did not merely relate to the peculiar interests of certain communities in Ireland, but involved considerations of the utmost importance respecting the administration of justice, and the efficiency of the civil power; it had reference to many matters deeply affecting the feelings, and interests, of that country, and the permanent cause of general good government. Before noticing any parts of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which he would refer to as they occurred in connexion with his own arguments, he would
 1051 1052 1053 1054 1055 1056 1. 1057 1058 minimum maximum 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064 1065 1066 l l. l., l. 1067 1068 l. ad interim 1069 l. l. 1070 1071 1072 1073 l. 1074 1075 O'Connell: 1076
 Sir Harry Verncy  said, that he felt it his
 1114
 Sir George Strickland  felt, that it was desirable to introduce some plan by which Railroad Bills should be more attentively and patiently considered than they had hitherto been. He had been a member of the Committee on Railroads, and had hoped on entering the Committee that they should have been able to have devised some general rules for the better management of the business relating to these Bills; but he found that upon mature consideration in the Committee it was impossible, under the circumstances, to do so. It depended, he thought, on the House itself to give a more patient consideration to this subject, and to pay a greater attention than they were in the habit of doing to private Bills of this nature.
 Lord George Lennox  complained that so many Railway Bills should be referred to the same Committee; and he regretted that the Report of the Committee on Railways had not recommended that no Member of the House should be a Member of a Committee on any Bill for the formation of a railway of which he was a director or a shareholder.
 Lord Stanley  said, that in the Committee of fifteen, which had framed the resolutions, the only absent Member was the hon. Member for Middlesex. That hon. Member had given his attendance only for two or three hours the first day of sitting. It was true he had propounded the proposition just put by him to the House; it was not acceded to, and he never gave the Committee his company afterwards. The Committee had decided that no alteration should be made in the nature of the tribunal in the present Session, because they were willing to see how the existing form would work before they adopted a new one. Besides, they had taken every precaution to secure the attention and strict attendance of hon. Members—by proposing that those who were absent should be reported to the House—that the names of every hon. Member who divided should be recorded in every division and submitted to the House also; and moreover, that every hon. Member should state his reasons for his vote, and give the cause which led to his conviction. The proposition
 1117
 Lord George Lennox  had not meant to allude personally to the hon. Member; and he must, state that neither himself nor any Member of his family had any interest, contingent or direct, in any line of railway before Parliament.
 Sir George Strickland  supported the motion; but, as the charge of remuneration must fall on the county rate, he hoped the remuneration would be as low as possible. He well knew the liberality of the medical profession, and he was sure that they would be satisfied with a very low rate of compensation,
 Mr. Rigby  Wason again moved that the House be counted: when there appearing only thirty Members present, the House adjourned.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was understood to recommend that the powers of investigation and regulation which it was proposed to bestow on the Committees, should be applicable to those railroads already established, as well as to those in progress of formation, and for which persons were now seeking railroad Bills to establish them.
 Colonel Sibthorp  admitted, with the hon. Baronet opposite, that many of these undertakings had emanated from local interests, without any regard to national ones. He had no hesitation in saying, that upon grounds of public duty, in preference to private interests, he had taken every means of opposing these undertakings from beginning to end. He wished to put the public upon their guard with respect to them, for he was afraid Ministers were not inclined to give the subject due consideration. He thought time ought to be given for investigating the subject, for in some points the resolutions proposed by the right hon. Gentlemen opposite were not sufficiently specific. Every opportunity ought to be given of entering into the merits or demerits of the subject, and though he might agree with many of the resolutions proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, yet he was so satisfied of the good effects of further delay that he should vote with the hon. Baronet opposite for the appointment of a Select Committee. He thought that if the whole of the proposed Bills could be postponed until next Session it would be very desirable. He had some
 1115
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  slated to the House the course he proposed it should pursue. By the Report of the Committee which had been circulated with the votes, hon. Members would be aware of the recommendations of the Committee: and he should call upon them to concur in. a series of resolutions embodying those recommendations. The first would be, that it be an instruction to the List-Committee upon every Bill, to obtain specific information on all the points adverted to in the Report. The object of it was, that all the intelligence that could be furnished regarding particular railroads should be laid upon the Table. The next resolution respected divisions in List-Committees, and the attendance of Members upon those Committees. The third had for object the giving time for the nomination of Members upon List-Committees in cases where there were competing lines of railroad, in order that contending parties might come to an amicable arrangement, if they thought fit, and have the comparative merits decided by the same body of Members. The fourth resolution was directed against giving additional time to Committees to make their Reports on competing lines of railroad, excepting under special circumstances. The fifth resolution would be that whenever the report of a Committee related to three railroads with common  termini, 1113 termini
 Mr. Harvey  suggested, that a mode of meeting the difficulties in connexion with the question of railways, would be to make it incumbent on projectors to submit their several plans to the Home Office six months at least before the meeting of Parliament, say, on the 1st of August in each year; and also to deposit a sum of money sufficient to defray the expense of engineers in surveying and reporting the respective lines of railway. Government would thus be enabled, at the meeting of Parliament, to point out to the House those plans which were most feasible, and by that means a great saving of time and trouble to the House, and of expense to the parties, would take place. In his opinion the Resolutions of the Committee would be productive of great advantage, though he would freely admit they were open to much comment and objection. But, on the whole, it were better that any further proceeding should be deferred as to the constitution of the tribunal, than that a crude and hasty measure should be adopted by the House. The hon. Member objected to the suggestion of the noble Lord, the Member for Sussex, on the ground that there were indirect influences, equally, if not more powerful, than the direct one of being a registered proprietor or shareholder; and he admitted that he was a shareholder himself, as well as many other hon. Members whom he could name, but denied that it could have any influence on his opinions. Another suggestion which he should venture to make was, that the Committee should not hear too many Counsel; one on each side would be enough, and it would save time and expense to hear no more. If, however, the suggestion of the noble Lord was to be adopted, he (Mr. Harvey) should further propose, that no hon. Member having interest, direct or contingent, in railroads should be allowed to take part in the proceedings of the Committee.
 Mr. George P. Young  said, that though the House and the country were deeply indebted to the Committee, yet, on the grounds adduced by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he was bound to say, he thought their Resolutions did not give entire satisfaction. Neither did he think the noble Lord's defence then partook of his usual success in matters of that nature. He was of opinion, that some improvement in the constitution of the tribunal was necessary; and as it was important to the public, it should be effected at once. With so many Bills for Railways before Parliament, any evil which might result from immediately doing it, would be overbalanced by the good it would produce.
 Mr. Warburton  remarked, that it had appeared very extraordinary and unaccountable to behold individuals sitting in Committee to consider the propriety of a railroad in which they were themselves Proprietors and Directors. He would suggest the propriety of the Chairman of each Committee examining every individual who took a part in the investigation or appeared before it, touching his private interest in the matter. He thought there would be little difficulty in striking a Committee of fifteen proper individuals. He would take the list of the House as it now stood, and make Members declare whether they would act or not. He thought that on any occasion thirty or forty Members
 1122
 Mr. Warburton  supported the motion, and hoped that, the Bill would provide for the payment of medical men, not only as witnesses but also for any operation they might be called on to perform, with a view to ascertaining the cause of death. It must take a considerable time to analyse a poison, and to enable a man to do so he must
 1128
 The Speaker  read the following resolutions, and put the question on each  seriatim: 1. Resolved, that Committees on Railway Bills do inquire into the following matters, and report specially there upon when they report the respective Bills to the House. As to the proposed capital of the Company formed for the execution of the project, and the amount of any loans which they may be empowered to raise under the provisions of the Bill; the amount of shares subscribed for, and the deposits paid thereon, the names and residences of the directors or provisional Committee, with the amount of shares taken by each; the number of shareholders who may be considered as having a local interest in the line, and the amount of capital subscribed for by them, and the number of other parties, and the capital taken by them; a statement of the number of shareholders subscribing for 2,000 l. The sufficiency or insufficiency for agricultural, commercial, manufacturing', or other purposes, of the present means of conveyance, and of communication between the proposed  termini, The number of passengers, and the weight and description of the goods expected upon the proposed railway. The amount of income expected to arise from the conveyance of passengers and goods, and in what proportion; stating also generally the description of goods from which the largest revenue is anticipated. Whether the proposed, railroad be a complete and integral line between the  termini Whether any, and what, competing lines of railroad there are existing, and whether, any, and what, are in progress or contemplation; and to slate, so far as circumstances will permit, in what respects the proposed line is
 1123 To state what planes on the railway are proposed to be worked, either by assistant engines, stationary or locomotive, with the respective lengths and inclinations of such planes. To advert to any peculiar engineering difficulties in the proposed line, and to report the manner in which it is intended they should be overcome. To state the length, breadth, and height, and means of ventilation of any proposed tunnels, and whether the strata through which they are to pass are favourable, or otherwise. To state whether, in the lines proposed, the gradients and curves are generally favourable or otherwise, and the steepest gradient, exclusive of the inclined planes above referred to, and the smallest radius of a curve. To state the length of the main line of the proposed line of the railroad, and of its branches respectively. To state generally the fitness, in an engineering point of view, of the projected line of railroad. If it be intended that the railroad should pass on a level any turnpike road or highway, to call the particular attention of the House to that circumstance. To state the amount of the estimate s of the cost or other expenses to be incurred up to the time of the completion of the railway, and whether they appear to be supported by evidence, and to be fully adequate for the purpose. To state what is the estimated charge of the annual expenses of the railroad when completed, and how far the calculations on which the charge is estimated have been sufficiently proved. Whether the calculations proved in evidence before the Committee have satisfactorily established that the revenue is likely to be sufficient to support the annual charges of the maintenance of the railroad, and still allow profit to the projectors. The number of assents, dissents, and neuters upon the line, and the length and amount of property belonging to each class traversed by the said railroad, distinguishing owners from occupiers; and, in the case of any Bill to vary the original line, stating the above particulars with reference to such parties only as may be affected by the proposed deviation. To state the name or names of the engineers examined in support of the Bill, and of those, if any, examined in opposition to it. To state the main allegation of any petition or petitions which may have been referred to the Committee, in opposition to the preamble of the Bill, or to any, of its clauses; and whether the allegations have been considered by the Committee, and, if not considered, the cause of their not having been so. To state, in addition, any circumstances which, in the opinion of the Committee, it is desirable the House Should be informed of. 1124 2. Resolved, that this House will not proceed with the further consideration of Report of any Bill, until it has received from the Committee specific replies in answer to each of the questions contained in the foregoing resolutions, 3 Resolved, that the Clerk of every Committee on a Railway Bill do take down the name of every Member attending the Committee on each day; and if any division shall take place in the Committee upon any of the matters which the Committee are directed to inquire into by the preceding resolution, or upon the Special Report in respect of such matters, the Clerk do take down the names of Members voting in any such division, distinguishing on which side of the question they respectively vote; and that such Bills be given in with the Report to this House. 4. Resolved, that in order to afford time for the proper discussion of the Reports on Railway Bills, this House will upon every Tuesday proceed in the first place to the consideration of reports on such Bills; provided, however, that three or more such Bills have been reported, and stand for further consideration of Report, Sessional Order, that this House will not receive any Report of any Private Bill after Monday, the 6th day of June next read. 5. Resolved, that with regard to such Railroads as are classed as competing lines of Railroad, this House will not enlarge the time for making any such Report, as has been the practice in former Sessions of Parliament; and that the said Order be peremptorily enforced in this Session, in respect of Railway Bills. 6. Resolved, that when any Railway Bill has been read the second time and committed, this House will not immediately nominate the Committee, but appoint some future day for such nomination, with an interval of at least three clear days between the day of the second reading and the day for the nomination of the Committee.
 Mr. Wilks  presented a petition from a medical gentleman named Barker, in favour of the measure for granting compensation to medical men attending as witnesses on Coroners' Inquests. The petitioner stated, that on the 22d of July, 1834, he made a  post mortem 1126
 Mr. Hume  thought that too much attention was paid to private interests in the consideration of Bills relating to Railways. The points of greatest importance to be considered by Committees were, first, whether there was a probability of the Railroads being carried into effect; and next, whether, if carried into effect, the
 1116
 Mr. Borthwick : Sir, the matter to which I am now shortly about to direct the attention of the House, is one, which in itself is so very important both to the national character, and to the colonial interests generally, that I must entreat that indulgence of the House which it is went to extend to humble and little experienced Members, when venturing to obtrude themselves upon their attention on matters of such vital consideration. 1131 sine die. 1132
 Mr. Borthwick  continued his speech—After a lapse of some minutes
 Mr. Eaton , in rising to present a petition, said, Sir, I trust the House will grant me their indulgence for a few moments while I once again refer to the extreme difficulties which now prevail in presenting public petitions. I have received a most important petition from Cambridgeshire and the Isle of Ely, and although I am at this moment so unwell that my medical adviser desired me not to quit my bed, still I conceived it my duty to the petitioners to use every means in any power to present their petition. I hold in my hand an important petition signed by a very numerous, loyal, and most respectable body of the landowners and yeomanry of the county of Cambridge and Isle of Ely. It comprises signatures of men of every political
 1125
 Mr. Potter  thought, that a great improvement might be made in the mode in which the juries for assessing compensation were appointed; and he wished that greater attention should be paid to the protection of the rights of way, as far as public paths and thoroughfares were concerned. Sufficient attention was not paid to these points.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that he was a proprietor of shares in a railway speculation, and that nothing which had been said on the subject should induce him to throw them away.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed in the necessity of framing some protection against the power of the Directors to institute a monopoly of price; for, suppose a line running from London to Bristol, it would be very desirable to engage it in the service of the Post-Office. This arrangement would, however, throw into the hands of the Company a power of charging their own price, in reference to which it would be not unwise in the Post-Office to take care that the country should not in future be burthened thereby. It would, therefore, be advisable to introduce a clause in favour of the Post-Office in the general regulations applicable to each, compelling these Companies to carry the mails at a certain fixed rate—at least not permitting them to charge the Post-Office more than they charged others for similar parcels.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, this subject came rather within the department of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) than his. He wished the motion to be so drawn up as not to commit the House, directly or indirectly, to any opinion upon the subject. He was not disposed to concur in the principle which the motion seemed to involve, that the State was to furnish the money. If they did so, of course it must be under the administration of the state. He saw some difficulties, but he had no objection that the subject should be inquired into.
 Mr. Wakley , in answer to an observation made by an hon. Member, begged' to observe that a Coroner might desire the overseers to have a medical man in attendance, but at the same time the medical man might refuse. He could not in case of refusal, be proceeded against for contempt of court. He hoped the Attorney-General would pay some attention to the progress of the Bill, and suggest such amendments as his professional experience would enable him to recommend in it. He understood there was in Ireland, under the Grand Jury law, a great deal of jobbing in the selection of medical men to attend at inquests.
 Mr. Wakley , in rising to ask leave of the House to bring in a Bill for granting compensation to medical men attending as witnesses at Coroners' inquests, said that after the favourable manner in which the petitions just presented to the House upon this subject had been received, he should detain the House only a very few minutes, to the Bill that was brought in during the last Session for regulating the fees of Coroners a clause was proposed to compensate medical men, but the clause was objected to, and in consequence the whole Bill was very properly rejected. It had been asked, why should medical witnesses be remunerated any more than any other class of witnesses? But there was no analogy in the cases. Medical men attended professionally at inquests, and not as mere casual persons who might have chanced to witness an accident by which the loss of life was caused. The duty, too, of medical witnesses on those occasions was of a most important nature, and often attended with great danger to themselves, as they were frequently obliged to occupy twelve, and not unfrequently fourteen hours in a  post mortem 1127 post mortem
 Mr. Mackinnon  rose for the purpose of moving for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the subject of Tolls. It would be similar in its object to a motion of his last Session. His motion was granted at that time; but it fell to the ground on the change of Government. The object he then proposed was the consolidation of turnpike trusts. Subsequently, however, the hon. Member for Perth brought in a similar, Bill, and it proved of great advantage. What he meant now to propose for investigation by a Committee was whether it would not is desirable to provide for the keeping up of highways by some other kind of revenue than by tolls. He believed the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not disposed to agree with him in the application of any other species of revenue to this object than that already provided. The present mode of raising the money by tolls was a most injurious one, and in that opinion the Lords' Committee agreed with him. A post carriage duty, or a horse and carriage duty, would be far preferable. The expense and inconvenience of the present mode of collection was very great. The
 1129
 The Attorney-General  said, he was favourable to the principle of the Bill, and had no doubt that it would prove a useful measure. He hoped, however, that the hon. Member would guard against the provisions of the Bill being converted into jobs, by enabling Coroners to call in some medical friend with a view to entitling him to compensation.
 Mr. Jervis  Sir, I move that the House be counted.
 Sir Robert Peel —Sir, the discussion
 1119 prima facie 1120 Hon. Member: 1121
 Sir Stratford Canning  said: I am anxious to take the liberty of calling the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs to a letter which appeared in one of the public prints to day respecting an interference that has taken place on the part of the Austrian, Russian, and Prussian Governments in the State of Cracow. I will take the liberty of reading the statement to which I refer:—" Cracow, 1130
 Viscount Palmerston : His Majesty's Government have not received any official account of the entrance of the troops of the three Powers into Cracow, but we have received official reports of discussions having taken place between the residents of the three Powers at Cracow, and the Senate of that State, respecting the residents of certain Polish subjects there. At the same time I do not think it altogether improbable that the Austrian troops have entered the place. At first sight this might appear to be an infraction of the whole of the treaty of Vienna alluded to by my right hon. Friend, but, of course, I am not now prepared to give an opinion on the subject. In answer to the question of my right hon. Friend I will only say, that of course this is a matter to which the Government will direct its attention; but the House cannot expect me to state what steps the Government might deem it expedient to take.
 Viscount Sandon  wished that Committees should exercise a subsequent, as well as a previous, right of investigation and control over railroad affairs by the examination of engineers and others concerned therein. He wished also to remind the House of the injury likely to result to the public service by allowing those Companies to exercise au unlimited right of toll.
 Mr. Miles  presented a Petition from the Electors of a Hundred in East Somerset, complaining that by the decision of the Revising Barristers there they had been disfranchised, though in every respect entitled to the right of voting. This petition was only one of a class, as his hon. colleague was intrusted with a great number of petitions from the same division of the county, containing the same complaints. Indeed, so complete and general had been
 1133 ex post facto
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  warmly supported the petition, so far as respected the removal of the duty upon agricultural seeds, clover, tares, and linseed, which imposed a very unjust burden upon the general mass of the agriculturists of this country. This imposition affects every part of the country, with the exception of a few of the southern counties, where the superiority of the climate allows the seeds to come to maturity; and was most severely felt in the great agricultural county which he represents, in which it operated as a severe tax once in each of the regular rotations of cropping.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that this purported to be a Bill for the general and final Registration of Voters, but he found also mixed up with it clauses to permit changes in the localities and qualifications of certain classes of voters—a mode of getting through the business that he especially reprobated. The hon. Member should limit his Bill to its specific object.
 Mr. Ord  wished his hon. Friend would allow it to be referred to a Select Committee, to make arrangements for the better security of the subject under the application of these new powers.
 The Attorney General  admitted the expediency of making an amendment to the extent just mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman opposite—namely, that wherever attorneys were now suffered to practise, there prisoners should be permitted to take advantage of their assistance. The words, however, proposed to be added for the purpose of effecting this object, were not, he conceived, solely directed towards that end; they had a different and a far deeper intention, and would produce an effect widely opposite from that which the Committee were led to believe; for if they were added to the clause, the immediate consequence would be, that any person whatsoever, be his station, conduct, character, or pursuits, what they might, would be entitled to act as Counsel for prisoners, and it was no unlikely or impossible circumstance, in case the amendment was agreed to, that an accused person might select for his Counsel the most accomplished thief or swindler, with the view of evading the law and not of fairly meeting the evidence.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press his amendment. He had as great an objection to monopoly as his hon. Friend, and ha hoped soon to see it cease altogether, but the enemies of this Bill would find enough to cavil at without the introduction of any extraneous matter. Common sense, humanity, and the feeling of the country, however, called for the measure and he hoped, therefore, that his hon. Friend would withdraw his amendment, rather than let it stand as the least impediment in the way of success. He wished it, however, to be understood that he had not the least objection to attorneys practising in the manner that was desired.
 Mr. O'Connell  perfectly agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, that it would be better to re-
 1149
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that Mr. Charles Phillips had been as long his friend as the friend of the hon. and gallant Member. Upon the occasion alluded to be did not name Mr. Phillips. He said he would prove the evidence. He did not then know, except from public report, that it was the evidence of Mr. Phillips; but the gallant Colonel now very kindly introduced the name of Mr. Phillips to afford an opportunity of quarrel between two old friends. He was most ready to retract anything which bad fallen from him that could be considered as reflecting upon a most worthy man, whom he had the honour of knowing for many years.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, Mr. Phillips must be now a very different man from what he had known him ever before to have been if the quarrel between them was not already made up.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the hon. Member had now satisfied himself. He retracted before the letter was read, and, after its being read, he now retracted again.
 Sir George Strickland  thought it would be better to pass the Bill without the
 1153
 Mr. Heathcote  said, that he could not approve of the proposition of the hon. Member for St. Alban's, because it might lead to serious injury if they were to allow any alteration of their proceedings to be made without notice on this subject having been previously given. It would, in fact, be establishing a principle which he hoped the House would never sanction.
 The Attorney General  could not assent to the amendment, as it would appear to legalize a practice which he abominated. If such a practice as that which the hon. and learned Sergeant described prevailed in Ireland, it was illegal, and ought at once to be reprobated. He remembered that in Lord Ellenborough's time an instance had occurred, in which a Magistrate had taken depositions against a prisoner in his absence, and that his Lordship had strongly reprobated the practice. Instead of introducing a clause
 1161
 Sir Edward Katchbull  observed, that in England the practice was that which had been described by the Attorney-General; if the practice were so bad in Ireland, it ought to be put a stop to, but it would be unjust to do anything which might by implication confound the practice of the two countries, and therefore he objected to the amendment.
 Mr. Pouller  moved the Order of the Day for the adjourned debate on the Motion, "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the circumstances attending the late Election of the Municipal Council of the Borough of Poole."
 Mr. Scarlett  approved of the amendment much more than of the original motion. The subject did not properly belong to Parliament, it was one that a Court of Law alone should take cognizance of. It was true the Courts of Law could not remedy the offence really complained of, that this was a Conservative Corporation; but they could remedy the offences, if any, really committed. If the election was bad, the King's Bench could pronounce it void, so could it the nomination of aldermen; and the Court of Chancery could interfere with any alienation of property by the Corporation. The present line of proceeding was a novel and unconstitutional one, as it was tyranny on the part of Parliament to interfere with the rights of the Courts of Law.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was favourable to the principle of the measure, but must join in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Goring), of the crude state of the Bill in its present shape. He hoped the hon. and. learned Gentleman would consent to postpone it.
 Colonel Perceval  understood the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr.
 1150
 Colonel Perceval  said, he was informed by Mr. Phillips, that it was impossible the observations of the Member for Dublin could refer to any person but himself, he being the only Barrister who was examined upon that occasion, unless the Recorder of London could be alluded to under that denomination, which was not probable.
 Colonel Perceval  would not trespass further on the time of the House. He hoped he had said enough to show that there was no ground for the charge against his friend.
 Colonel Perceval  would read the letter he had received from Mr. Phillips, for the purpose of showing that the hon. Member for Dublin could have meant no other person than Mr. C. Phillips when he alluded to the evidence given by a learned gentleman.
 Colonel Perceval  said, the Member for Dublin cast an imputation upon him of endeavouring to produce a quarrel between two friends. He had, therefore, a right
 1151
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, a more useless controversy, interrupting the business of the House, he had never witnessed, and as it was over he would return to the Bill. He thought it would be better to have only two speeches, giving the accused the last word. This was the practice in Scotland.
 Mr. Charles Buller  moved an amendment, to the effect that, according to the Scotch system, the speeches of Counsel should not begin until the whole of the witnesses had been examined, on the one side and on the other. He thought it would be time enough afterwards to consider the form of the indictment.
 Mr. Charles Buller  was surprised that the Member for West Yarmouth should, after a year's delay, have brought forward the same specious, plausible, but unsound objections. He might as well urge them against every Court of Law in the kingdom, and particularly against the House of Lords. According to his arguments noble Lords should exclaim against the presumption of those who appealed to them, after having had the benefit of the best Judges, Counsel, &c, in the Courts below. He thought the House had, very consistently in its references to this subject, considered the Revising Banisters' a Court of Appeal, in conformity with the usual course of practice in all the English Courts of Law. The House would now do wisely to sanction by its vote all its best decisions, and not leave it open to a man with a large purse to refuse to go at the proper time before the revising barrister, put his opponent to ruinous expense, and set justice at defiance, by a protracted investigation before a Committee, as at present.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  seeing his Friend, the hon. Member for Middlesex, in his place, wished to ask him whether he would consent to abandon the Bill he had introduced relating to Lighthouses, upon his (Mr. P, Thomson's) assuring him that he was ready to introduce a Bill upon the same subject? It would not be in his power, or in the power of his Majesty's Government, to give the consent of the Crown to the second reading of his hon. Friend's Bill, framed as that Bill now was; but he was willing to
 1139
 Mr. Grote  thought that the hon. Gentleman misapprehended the object of the Bill. He did not understand that it was intended to make the revising barristers' decision final; but that no objection to a vote should be raised before an Election Committee unless there had been a previous objection raised before a revising barrister, and that all votes brought before him, and not objected to, should be final. He thought this was a wise and politic measure; and one which was calculated to save a vast expense to parties going before Election Committees.
 Mr. Grote  observed, that the resolutions rendered it imperative that the order for closing the doors should be given by Mr. Speaker, and if that person were not there to perform that duty, no Division could take place in the Committee. He thought it was the duty of the House at once to adopt some means by which the difficulty could be removed.
 Mr. Goring  could not withhold his testimony to the very humane conduct of the Assistant Commissioner to whom the petitioners had alluded. He had at all times taken into consideration the feelings of the poor, and was always anxious to ascertain what were their wants, while he ever lent an attentive ear to the suggestions of the Board of Guardians. A school for the education of the pauper children had been, at the suggestion of that gentleman, established by the Board of Guardians, and the greatest benefit had been derived from it. At his suggestion, also, the Board of Guardians had resolved to give premiums for merit among the children, which, no doubt, would have the most beneficial effect.
 Mr. Goring  said, that in his opinion, the hon. Member had no right to throw upon extra-parochial places, either belonging to the Crown or individuals, the additional burthen which the measure contemplated; and even if the principle were correct, the principle could not be worked out by the provisions of his Bill. He proposed, for instance, to enact, that "overseers should be appointed in every place according to the provisions of the Act of Elizabeth." Now those provisions were, that two church-wardens, and two or three householders might meet, and on a certain day elect overseers, whereas, in many extra-parochial places, there were not two householders resident, and in none were there churchwardens. He could not help characterizing it as a very
 1163
 Mr. Aglionby  suggested to his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Jervis), whether the better way would not be to comply with the wish so generally expressed till after the Easter recess.
 Mr. Aglionby  doubted whether the objectionable practice was illegal in Ireland, where the Act 7 and 8 George 4th did not apply. He hoped the Attorney-General would reconsider his opinion, and allow words to be introduced into the clause which would remove all doubt on the subject.
 Mr. Aglionby  agreed with the last speaker, and instanced probable cases of embarrassment to voters in replying as to the value of holdings which might fluctuate from 12 l. l.
 Mr. Aglionby  would put to the Solicitor-General a case where the Magistrates acted both as Judge and Jury, in which they had the power either of granting bail to the party accused, or of committing him to prison. Was it not a most important consideration whether a man should be incarcerated for some long and dreary months in a prison, or allowed to retain his liberty on bail—whether he should be dragged from his home, on his
 1159
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the third resolution provided that the Speaker should give orders for the doors to be closed. He apprehended that it would be quite competent for the Speaker, although he were not in the chair, to allow the Division to be taken in the manner expressed in this resolution.
 Mr. Warburton  recommended that the questions put to the voter should be as simple as possible, and no question of law and fact combined, as in the case of scot and lot voters. He related an instance of perjury that occurred to a person of this class, in his reply to the third question, which he thought ought to be omitted.
 The Speaker  was very unwilling to interfere, unless distinctly appealed to, but
 1156
 The Speaker  said, that the usual course certainly was to give notice of any motion intended to be brought forward.
 The Speaker  said, there was no doubt if a Member was in possession of the House, he might make any motion he thought fit, but at the same time it had been customary far many years past for hon. Members to give notice of the motions they intended to make. It was a question whether a
 1155
 Mr. Freshfield  could not assent to the clause, but would not divide the House upon it. He doubted much if the House understood the present practice. The object proposed was, to assimilate the practice in criminal and civil proceedings.
 Mr. James B. Praed  opposed the Bill. It was essentially opposed to the principle supported by his Majesty's Ministers at the passing of the Reform Bill. He thought the practical effect of the measure would be to embarrass and postpone, if not to prevent altogether, the administra-
 1140
 Mr. Stewart Mackenzie , on presenting a Petition from the proprietors and occupiers of land in the counties of Ross and Cromarty, said, that it was signed by many very respectable landlords, and by a numerous body of tenantry, many of whom are paying rent varying in amount from 500 l. l. 1134 1135 s. l. 1136
 Mr. Hardy  thought it would be against the interest of the accused to have the last word. The prisoner must be well acquainted with the facts from previous examination. If four speeches were allowed, the Counsel must enter into a contest of sophistry and refinement, and the Judge become, in some measure, an advocate for the plaintiff.
 The Lord Advocate  said, the practice in Scotland greatly facilitated the administration of justice. The facts were all known to the accused. It was not so in England. In a charge of treason in this country, not one alone, but all sorts of treason, were charged in the indictment against the accused.
 Mr. Poulter  referred his hon. Friend to the statute of the 5th George 4th, where he would find that every desirable security was provided by the forms to be observed in bringing all questions of misdemeanour first before Grand Juries; then, if they pass those, before the usual Petty Juries. The offence, if supported sufficiently before the first, and proved before the second, would amount to simple misdeameanor, a degree of crime with which the Courts already knew well how to deal. He had intended to take the Committee on Wednesday next, and if in the meanwhile any hon. Member could suggest any alteration or amendment to him, he should be most happy to give it his attentive consideration. With regard
 1142
 Mr. Poulter  moved that the Intimidation of Voters Bill be read a second time.
 Mr. Poulter : Sir, I shall certainly resist this Amendment, because it offers in this most scandalous case, just no relief at all. I can assure the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hogg) that I can quite understand that he has been but a short time acquainted with the nature of the case which he has just opened; from the total misconception of its whole character. He tells us we could get relief in a Court of Law. I tell him that a Court of Law cannot give adequate relief to the grievance of which we complain; but that for every redress and reparation which the Courts of Law in this country can administer, we have prayed;—we have prosecuted that remedy, we are pursuing it with every possible effort, and with all the speed that is consistent with the rules of the Court. But the hon. Gentleman is in a great mistake as to the character of those proceedings which we have instituted in a Court of Law; he does not seem to be aware that so early as the third day of last term an application was made for a new warrant against the councillors, so fraudulently elected; and that, when the Rule was made absolute, by the course of practice in the Court, it became impossible to give the notices, under which we could proceed to trial at the assizes now ensuing; it therefore was impossible to obtain any trial till Midsummer Assizes;—no judg-
 1166 quo warrant os" 1167 l., 1.
 Mr. Roebuck  thought, if words were introduced simply declaring that no depositions should be used against a prisoner but such as had been previously communicated to him, it would remove all difficulty, without declaring any thing as to English or Irish practice.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had drawn an inference and pictured a case in the very extreme of what was possible to happen, even if the amendment as it now stood were agreed to—no such circumstance as that of one thief, however accomplished he might be, being brought into Court to defend another. The real question before the Committee was whether the person standing accused
 1145
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that as, by the law as it now stood, a man was not entitled to vote till he had paid up his rates a full year, he should be allowed the benefit of a full year after the payment in considering his sufficiency as a rate-payer.
 Mr. Hume  submitted that there were cases, however, in which the House was called upon to wave the standing regulations, and that this was one of those in which it could come to an immediate decision.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that after what his right hon. Friend had stated, that he could not give the consent of the Crown to the Bill he had introduced, he had no remedy. All he could say was, that his Bill was drawn up agreeably to the instruction of the Committee which sat the year before last. He was sorry to be called upon to give up that Bill; but he could not help himself, for he was in that situation in which he must yield. He would, therefore, not press his Bill.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  said, that the practice of taking depositions in the absence of prisoners prevailed in Ireland. So far was it from the fact that prisoners were present when the witnesses were examined against them before the Magistrates in cases of felony, that the reverse was generally the case. In Ireland the practice was to refuse to the prisoner the depositions or copies of the depositions made against him. The amendment was therefore necessary. The practice which it was intended to abolish was very injurious to the prisoner, and certainly ought not to be continued.
 Mr. Bernal  hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury would withdraw his amendment, in favour of that suggested on the other side. If such an innovation upon, the practice of the Criminal Courts were once to be admitted, the same by a parity of reasoning, might be claimed in civil cases, and the inconvenience, to say nothing of the injustice or folly of such a proceeding, would be intolerable, and would reduce the Courts of Law to a condition utterly useless. Should the amendment be even agreed to; of which he saw no chance, the Bill, when it was sent to another place, would not stand the slightest chance of passing, no more than if the hon. Member were to propose to pass an Act declaring the empire of China to be part and parcel of the British dominions. He must confess he was both astonished and sorry to hear his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Liverpool, express his consent to and approbation of the amendment. It was on his part little less than an act of suicide, and the only advice he could give him, if the Committee acceded to it, was to give himself no further trouble about the Bill, as there was not the most remote chance of its passing.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, that only a few days since, the hon. Member had made a very strong speech against medical quacks, and he hoped he was not now going to show more favour to legal quacks and pettifoggers.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was of opinion that the registration before the revising barristers was not yet sufficiently perfect to admit of being rendered final. When some further time had elapsed, he should not object to the registration being final.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  contended, that in England no Magistrate had a right to take depositions against a prisoner in his absence. The practice which the hon. and learned Gentleman wished to check had no existence in England. He should be sorry to see the admission in an Act of Parliament that such a practice was sanctioned by the Magistracy of England. He should certainly oppose the amendment.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  considered, that the hon. Gentleman in the chair had certainly the power to control the Committee, and if he had expressed his opinion on the subject, the difficulty would not have arisen. He understood that the motion that the Chairman should report progress was made, that the House might have the opinion of the Speaker as to whether the Committee should divide in the House or under the new system. He conceived it to be much more desirable that the House should have the opinion of the Chair on this point, than that they should continue to waste their time in discussion,
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  moved, as an amendment, that there be inserted after the words "committed to prison" the following:—"or which since their committal to prison or admission to bail have been, taken before any Justice of Peace." His hon. and learned Friend near him said, that no such practice as that which his amendment was intended to check existed in England; but this he knew, that the practice of taking depositions against the prisoner in his absence after he was sent to prison was very prevalent in Ireland, and as this Bill extended to Ireland, he thought his amendment highly necessary.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said that the Committee had thought that persons accused before Magistrates should have the benefit of Counsel for the purpose of satisfying the Judge of all the circumstances of the case. It was a most monstrous thing that a man should be liable to be tried in a summary way by a Justice of the Peace without Counsel. Until lately the law of England was, that where a man was brought before a Justice of the Peace not for the purpose of considering whether he should be committed for trial, but for the purpose of trying him, he was allowed the benefit of Counsel and Attorney. At present the Magistrate might refuse to allow Counsel, and in some cases he had refused. He wished to establish that as a right which was now only a matter of favour.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe , after the declaration of the Attorney-General, would withdraw his Amendment.
 Mr. Kemp  presented a Petition from a large body of his constituents at Lewes, complaining of the operation of certain clauses in the Poor-law-Amendment Act. The petitioners were very anxious that every relief should be given to the rate-payers, but they were also anxious that nothing should be done to press with unnecessary severity against the interests and feelings of the unfortunate paupers. The petitioners objected to several clauses in the Act; they objected also to the conduct of the Assistant Poor-
 1137 1138 ex officio
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Bill appeared good as far as it went, but it should not be unconditionally adopted, for the Intimidation Committee had not yet finished their labours, and might recommend other things, which it would be desirable to embody in one Bill, and the House might be embarrassed if they had not the opportunity. It was open to that Committee to take cognizance of this Bill, and he would recommend, as the most prudential course, that it be referred to them after the second reading.
 Mr. Wakley  called attention to a discrepancy existing between the first clause, which states that "after the passing of this Act all persons tried for felonies shall be admitted, after the close of the case for the prosecution, to make full answer and defence thereto by Counsel learned in the law;" and the third clause, which enacts, "that all persons accused before any Justice or Justices of the Peace, of any offence against the law, shall be admitted to make their answer and defence to such accusation, and to have any witnesses examined or cross-examined by Counsel, or by Attorney, attending on his behalf." Independently of the incongruity of the clauses, he thought that the limitation of a prisoner's defence to Counsel or Attorneys, or both, exhibited a narrow and exclusive feeling, which had better be done away with in the reformation effected by the present Bill. They both belonged to self-constituted and arbitrary societies, who really were not themselves amenable to law in their regulations, as his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Harvey) had experienced and he thought
 1143
 Mr. Wakley  expressed his readiness to withdraw his amendment, provided the suggestion which had proceeded from the right hon. Gentleman opposite was acted upon. In fact, his only object in proposing the alteration was to assimilate the second clause of the Bill with the third clause, which latter, he believed, contained a provision for the purpose of permitting Attorneys to practise as Counsel for prisoners, restricting them, however, to certain cases.
 Mr. Wakley  was willing to take, as an instalment of his own amendment, that proposed by the hon. and learned Member, and he should, therefore, not press his own proposition.
 Mr. Ewart  would support the hon. Gentleman if he moved such a proviso. He had abstained from inserting it in the Bill, not because he objected to the principle, but because he thought any attempt to establish it would be a hopeless one.
 Mr. Ewart  was surprised, having been associated with the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, in the introduction of this measure, that he should not have been allowed to share his confidence with respect to the present amendment. This very proposition had been negatived by a Select Committee two years ago, and he could not concur in it now. He thought the hon. and learned Member would have done better to have altered the form of indictment first, and the mode of pleading afterwards, instead of pursuing the contrary plan, which his motion proposed to do. The proposition he considered most mischievous and one which he would not have expected from an enemy to the Bill, much less from one known to be a friend to it.
 Mr. Ewart  said, the circumstances here and in Scotland were different. There all the facts against the accused were stated at length. Here scarcely any of the facts were given in the indictment. He saw no reason why the accused should not have the last word in all cases, as well as in felonies and high treason.
 Mr. Ewart  again rose to order. So far as Mr. Phillips was concerned the charge was withdrawn. No retractation could be more honourable to both parties than that made by the Member for Dublin.
 Mr. Ewart  appealed to the House whether they would sanction such a proceeding as this — a proceeding quite uncalled for, and which might lead to acrimonious disputes. The letter had no connexion with the business before the House; and, the charge against Mr. Phillips having been withdrawn by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, there could be no reason for proceeding further.
 Mr. Gore Langton  hoped that the House would do something to remedy the serious grievance of which the electors of East Somerset had, in this instance, to complain. He had been intrusted with several petitions from a large portion of his constituents, complaining of this grievance. The petitions came from electors well qualified, both by property and intelligence, to possess the right of voting, and who, by the decision alluded to, had been all disfranchised. The hon. Member then presented several petitions from places in the eastern division of Somersetshire, complaining of the effect of that decision.
 Sir Charles R. Blunt  had been requested to support the prayer of this petition, which he was very willing to do; although he was bound to say that, as far as his observations had gone, the new Poor-law Bill was working well. At the same time it was obvious, that a measure of such magnitude must, from time to time, require amendment. He was happy to learn that a noble Lord in another place had, on a question being put to him, expressed his willingness to take certain suggestions as to the Board of Guardians, into consideration.
 Sir Charles B. Vere  considered the Bill was an invasion of private property, and he trusted that, as such, the House would not come to a hasty decision upon it. He moved, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that he should think it his duty to divide the Committee on this clause, and would move an amendment in words to this effect:—"That permission to employ Counsel or Attorney should be granted to the parties accused, only in cases where Counsel or Attorney should have been engaged against them; that both parties should stand upon an equal footing, that neither the one nor the other should have any advantage in respect of Counsel."
 Sir Frederick Pollock  said, that if the hon. Member for Finsbury would allow him he would propose an amendment in the following words, which he thought
 1147
 Sir Frederick Pollock  said, that there were no words strong enough in which he could declare his sincere opinion, that if this provision were taken out of the clause it would be much better to put the Bill altogether into the fire, for, thus, mutilated, it would act only as a snare for the prisoner. Unless the great principle of allowing to prisoners a full defence, their Counsel having the last word, were carried out to its utmost extent, it would be far better that the Bill had never been introduced. So long as a man was brought into Court by the King, and not allowed to defend himself fully by Counsel, the country would never believe that be had justice done to him. Why should prisoners charged with high treason, the greatest crime known to the State, have
 1148
 Sir Frederick Pollock  begged to ask whether the object of the amendment was to admit attorneys to practise in Courts where at present members of the Inns of Courts alone were entitled to plead; because, if so, he must say he was not disposed to agree to it. It was the opinion of the most eminent men in the profession that the House ought to pass a Bill similar to this, for the purpose of giving prisoners Counsel, and there was a strong disposition on the part of the whole Bar to give this particular measure
 1146
 Sir Frederick Pollock  rose, not to discuss the question at length, but merely to ask whether the proposed Act would not charge Crown lands to a considerable extent?— Whether the consent of the Crown was not, therefore; necessary; and was this Bill brought forward specially that night because none of his Majesty's Ministers were present.
 Mr. Ward  said, that it was perfectly clear, that the business of the Committee could not be proceeded with until that difficulty was disposed of, and all he desired was, to make such an alteration in the wording of the resolution as would enable them to go on with the measure now under consideration. He therefore proposed to move, that all the provisions for divisions contained in the third resolution should be applied by order of the Chairman of a Committee as well as by the Speaker.
 Mr. Ward : Undoubtedly the intention of the Committee, from which the resolutions emanated, had been, that the plan should apply to all the Divisions of the House, and he would, therefore, with the permission of the House, move that the word "Chairman" be inserted in the resolution in order to avoid the difficulty. He then moved his amendment, but was reminded that he had given no notice. The hon. Member appealed to the Speaker whether he was to give notice or not?
 Mr. Elphinstone  moved the second reading of the Final Register of Electors' Bill.
 Sir James Graham  had sat six weeks last Session on a Committee along with the hon. Member for West Yarmouth, in the discussion of the principle points of this question, yet one of the most important remained undetermined. It was this —whether the decision of the Revising-Barrister was to be final or not? He purposed to draw a line of distinction between the objections taken at the registration, and arising subsequently to it, and previous to the vote. The Barrister's decisions on the first class should be final. The latter might be left open to further consideration.
 Mr. Hogg  rose to propose an amendment which he thought would meet the views of all parties, and which, without interfering with the proceedings now pending in the Court of King's Bench, would yet satisfy the views of the hon. and learned Member for Huddersfield, who complained, that though a Court of Law might ultimately punish the parties, yet that in the meantime they had full power to deal with and to alienate the corporation funds. He had hopes that his amendment, which the town-clerk and the members of the town-council generally were most anxious should be agreed to, would be the more especially acceptable, because, whilst it proposed to embrace in the inquiry all that was substantially requisite to meet the difficulty in which the inhabitants of Poole were alleged to be placed by this false election, it would exclude from the inquiry of the Committee all that was of a criminal nature, which was now before, and could only be properly decided by, a Court of Law It would, he believed be agreed on all sides that a
 1165 quo warranto,
 The Attorney-General  said, he understood the office of Woods and Forests had great difficulty with regard to the question, and wished for delay.
 The Attorney-General  observed, the hon. Member was not perhaps aware of the direct tendency of his suggestion. The principle of the Bill should be adhered to—it was, that prisoners should have the advantage of being permitted to have Counsel, so as to secure to them the benefit of a full defence on their trials. He would ask the hon. Member, was the present a desirable opportunity to introduce a discussion whether any other persons than those called to the Bar should be admitted to act as Counsel for Prisoners? There could be no doubt of the extreme propriety of the persons so intrusted with the defence of prisoners so circum stanced being subject to the control of some respectable body of men, as the Bar undoubtedly was. It tended to the security of those whose advocacy they undertook, and the maintenance of the dignity of the profession itself. If the proposition of the hon. Member were adopted, it would be open to any returned transport from Botany Bay to put on a wig and a gown and appear as the advocate of a prisoner on his trial. He begged the hon. Member and others who were friendly to the great and important object of this Bill—namely, providing the prisoner with ample means of defence—to reflect upon the possible consequence of adopting such a proposition. He would warn the friends of the measure to abstain from any proposition, which, like the present, was perhaps well calculated to injure the principle of the Bill.
 The Attorney-General  said, that he had no intention of dividing the House upon this clause, now that he Found the majority of hon. Members' entertained an opinion differing from his own, to which he should bow. He, however, still thought, that if the last speech was allowed to Prisoner's Counsel, the practice would throw upon the Judge the unpleasant duty of summing up the whole case, as it were as Counsel for the prosecution. It was not urged that any inconvenience had arisen or complaint (as had been admitted by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin) had been made of the present practice, and he thought it was unnecessary, therefore, to go abroad to foreign nations for an example by which to alter a practice which had hitherto worked well.
 The Attorney-General  objected to that part of the clause which took from Counsel for the prosecution the right of last reply, and gave it to the prisoner's Counsel. The statute giving this privilege to the Counsel for the Crown was passed under the auspices of an enlightened statesman in the reign of Elizabeth, and from that time to be present he had heard of no grievance that had arisen out of it or complaint against it, except in cases of high treason, where the law had been already altered. During the State trials in which Lord Erskine had gained for himself such immortal fame there was no complaint made of the Crown Counsel having the last word. "Was it not notorious that in all revenue cases the Counsel for the prosecution had the last reply, and who ever heard any complaint of that as a grievance? There was no ground, therefore, for altering the law in this respect. There might, perhaps, be particular cases where it would be an injustice; but let those special cases be provided for, and not a sweeping clause of this nature introduced, which he had no doubt would have the effect, if passed, of endangering the success of the Bill.
 The Attorney-General  thought, that where an information was laid before a Magistrate, and a man was liable, if convicted upon trial, to be sent to the House of Correction, and confined at hard labour for six months, he had just as good a right to be defended by Counsel and Attorney before a Magistrate as before a Judge. But this clause would give a party accused a right to attend by his Counsel and Attorney at preliminary investigations before a Magistrate, and to bring witnesses to prove his innocence. It seemed to him that there were many cases in which a Judge was required to keep these preliminary investigations secret, that He might be enabled by the facts established on these occasions to find out who were the parties really guilty of the offence. It was plain that in such a case the accused might claim under this clause to be heard by his Counsel and Attorney; they might take notes of the evidence adduced; it might be published next morning in all the daily papers, and thus notice of their danger would be given to all the persons concerned in committing the offence. He quite agreed with the right hon. Member for Kent, that it was not at all necessary that there should be a defence by counsel or Attorney on preliminary investigations. When the prisoner came to be tried, than let him have his counsel—let him have every advantage; but he could not con-
 1158 ex parte
 The Attorney-General  begged the hon. Member for Liskeard to withdraw his amendment, which he conceived would be more objectionable than the clause itself. The consequence of it would be, that at the close of the evidence the Jury would know very little or nothing at all about the matter before them.
 The Attorney-General  said, there could be no doubt that the resolution having omitted, to provide for the case of a Division in Committee, such a Division could not be come to unless the House were prepared to make the necessary alteration in the wording of the resolution.
 The Attorney-General  would not oppose the second reading of the Bill; but there was one clause which his hon. Friend had inserted in it to which he (the Attorney-General) must object. By the law as it stood at present out-voters were disfranchised; but if the clause which he alluded to were to be passed, it would re-create a body of out-voters.
 Mr. Jervis  thought that if the clause was objectionable before, it would be ten times more so if the amendment of the hon. Member were adopted. This was an instance of the evils entailed on the House by long and unnecessary discussions; for, if the question had been allowed to rest where it was left by the Attorney-General, the House would not have had this proposition, which could not possibly take effect unless the mode and form of indictment were altered also. It would be impossible to have indictments so circumstantially framed as to afford all the information required for the purposes of the amendment.
 Mr. Jervis  was very much surprised at the manner in which the Bill had been received from all parties. As to the observation of his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, it was true the Commissioners of Woods and Forests had expressed a wish for delay?—but when? Not till it was set down for second reading, and he then postponed it to this night for their convenience. It was true, none of his Majesty's Ministers were there; but was that his fault? particularly as he had spoken to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that night, and told him it was coming on. Besides, if the consent of the Crown were necessary, he knew enough of Parliamentary business to know, that it could be obtained any time between this and the third reading. Therefore, there was no objection on that ground to the second reading, if the House should think fit. So much for the technical objections, urged, he was sorry to say by his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Huntingdon, who bad been so lately favourable to the principle of the Bill. He wished to ask the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Goring), whether his opposition to the Bill was by desire of the Government? and if so, whether it was right that a Bill should be stopped altogether, just because the Ministers of the Crown would not take the trouble to attend in their places, to propose a clause exempting, if necessary, the
 1164
 Mr. Jervis  consented, and asked permission of the House to let the Bill stand over to the 20th of April.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that as he understood opposition was to be offered to the motion which he was about to make, from quarters whence it was least to be expected, he should state shortly the nature of this Bill. The object he had in view was, to make a provision for the maintenance of the poor in extra-parochial places. The effect of the existing law being, that no overseers could be appointed for those districts, and no orders could be made upon them to support their poor, who were consequently thrown upon the adjoining parishes, without furnishing any means whatever for their maintenance; although by law extra-parochial places were liable, for such had been the construction put upon the statute of Elizabeth. Now extra-parochial places had received a great benefit
 1162
 The Solicitor-General  was certain that it would be most inconvenient if counsel were allowed to parties accused at preliminary investigations, and if the trial were thus converted into a kind of appeal from the decisions pronounced at these processes. There could be no doubt that the clause was originally intended to apply only to cases of summary conviction, and that the doubt had arisen from the manner in which it was worded.
 The Solicitor- General  said, that he did not think the amendment was necessary to entitle attorneys to practise, because they would clearly have the right to do so under the original clause. Was it not the every-day practice at Quarter Sessions, as the law now stood, for attorneys to plead as Counsel,  pro hac vice,
 Mr. Williams Wynn  saw no reason why attorneys should be suffered to supersede Counsel in Courts where there was a regular attendance of that branch of professional men. The case was different when those Courts where attorneys were admitted to plead came under consideration; and as far as this alteration or amendment went, he for one would not be disposed to offer any objection, but would gladly concede to prisoners the privilege of employing attorneys to plead on their behalf in those Courts where they now practised as Counsel. The House could not act too cautiously in entertaining or assenting to innovations upon the present mode of conducting criminal trials in the English Courts of Law, as the most dangerous results might happen, quite unforeseen even by those whose benevolence prompted them to make those alterations.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  did not object to the second reading, but, at the same time, he certainly thought that it required a little concentration before going into Committee. The language in which some of its provisions were worded was very strong.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  did not rise to object to the Bill, but there were such a variety of matters contained therein that it could not well be considered as a whole, and he would recommend that it be referred to the Committee up stairs to consult on the classification of the clauses, and bring them in a more consistent form before the House.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  concurred in what had fallen from the Attorney-General, and should oppose the amendment.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  expressed his suprise that the House of Commons should attempt to usurp the functions of the ordinary tribunals. Such an attempt—such a monstrous invasion on the privileges of the Bench, he in his whole Parliamentary experience never witnessed. He did endeavour in the present case to resist this most dangerous precedent. This was a case that was strictly one fit only for judicial investigation, and he (Mr. Wynn) entered his strongest protest against this decision, by which it seemed that political feelings, more than the justice of the case, determined the matter, He would not divide the House on the question, but he entered his solemn protest, as decidedly as he could., against the last decision, as being in itself an evil, and likely to lead, from the precedent it would form, to greater evils. He would recommend his friends to express
 1168
 Mr. O'Brien  said, that during the last Session of Parliament, he had given notice, that in the present year he would bring forward measures for the relief of the Poor in Ireland. The Bill which he was now about to submit, was one of those measures; and, although the Government had announced their intention of developing a plan of their own, he hoped that he should still be permitted to lay this Bill before the House. In the observations with which he felt himself bound to accompany his Motion, it was happily no longer necessary for him to adduce any arguments in favour of the general principle, that there ought to be in Ireland, as in every other well-regulated country, a provision for the relief of the poor. The House, the country, and the Government, had, at length, awakened to the disgraceful condition of neglect and wretchedness in which the poor of Ireland had so long been allowed to languish— a condition which, he might venture to say, had no parallel in any country in Europe. The difficulties with which we had now to contend, were of a different complexion to that of resistance to the principle of a poor-law. The problem now to be solved was, in what manner the great interests of humanity could be best served by practical legislation upon the subject. On the one hand, it was to be feared, lest measures of too mild and moderate a character might be wanting in efficiency, whilst upon the other, there was a danger lest enactments of too coercive a kind, might impose upon the holders of property in Ireland, a burden which they were unable to bear. He was not disposed rashly to disregard the interests of those who are in possession of property in Ireland; but upon the other hand, he felt persuaded, that it was
 1194 1195 l. l., l. 1196 legal title 1197 l., 1198 1199
 Dr. Lushington  wished to remind his hon. and learned Friend of the very serious difficulty which was experienced by Dissenters in reference' to that part of the clause which required a declaration to be made by persons belonging to the Society of Friends. They and other Dissenters had an insuperable objection to the declaration prescribed or required by the 9th George 4th; but however much he (Dr. Lushington) might sympathise in the feelings of the Dissenters, he feared that as this declaration was regarded as a security to the Establishment, the law must be altered by the introduction of an Act for that specific purpose; and whenever such a measure should be brought forward, he would give it his best support.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that the Bill had been brought under the notice of the House before twelve o'clock. He thought it really too hard that a measure which the empty benches on the Opposition side of the
 1202
 The Lord Mayor  trusted his hon. Friend would persevere in his motion for adjournment. He quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had moved the amendment on the second reading, that the Reform Bill should be considered as a measure of amnesty. The hon. Member opposite (Mr. Brotherton) should be impartial in his moving for adjournment.
 Captain Chetwynd  said, as the representative of that old, and populous, and respectable Corporation, whose liberties it
 1201
 Mr. Law  moved the adjournment of the House, as it was now past the hour at which it had been agreed that no new business should be commenced,
 Mr. Law  did not consider the inference a fair one from his motion for adjournment, that those who sat on his side of the House were unwilling to have this Bill passed. The object of his motion was to prevent business of such importance being discussed at so late an hour. He should persist in his motion.
 Mr. Scarlett  begged before the business was proceeded with any further to call the attention of the House to a circumstance of unusual occurrence, and which in his opinion, demanded immediate attention. It was as the House knew, the custom every morning to send round printed papers to the Members containing the business of the preceding day, as well as the notices of motions that were to come on. He held in his hand two separate printed papers of that description, each signed by the Speaker, each purporting to be the votes of the preceding evening, one of which contained two more notices of motions than the other, there being eighteen notices in one, and twenty in the second. He begged to draw the attention of the House to this circumstance, and to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair which of them he was to consider as the authentic paper containing the votes. His reason for pressing the question at that moment was because he observed in one of the papers of votes a notice of motion respecting the divisions of the House by the hon. Member for St. Alban's, which he did not understand had been given by him.
 Lord John Russell  thought, that great advantage was likely to be derived from the Bill. At the same time he must say, that he contemplated some difficulties as likely to arise in making estimates of the real value of property by the local authorities, and he could not, in consequence, pledge himself to give it his unqualified sanction; but he trusted no opposition would be offered in the present stage.
 Lord John Russell  said, that this objection had struck him at the time, and he had felt some difficulty as to the working of the Bill on account of it. He had in consequence subsequently referred the point to the Law Officers of the Crown, and their decision was, that the Bill must be interpreted to refer to the amount of the actual value paid by the individual as appeared on the books, and not the real value of the house or property out of which they voted. He himself thought that this construction of the law threw a great hardship on the inhabitants who happened to be assessed nominally lower than their neighbours of an adjoining parish. But in the Bill now before the House it was proposed, as a better remedy than meddling with the Municipal Corporation Bill, to take steps to attain the real value of property in parishes, and the real amount a man was entitled to vote for, and thus all existing anomaly and injustice would be effectually done away with.
 Lord John Russell  was able to say, that since the discussion that had taken place in that House, he had thought it his duty to recommend to his Majesty that two of the Dorchester labourers should have a part of their sentence commuted. He had already stated that four out of the six had been permitted to return at the end of two years, which would terminate in October of the present year; and he had felt it his duty to recommend to his Majesty that the remaining two should return at the end of three years, which his Majesty had been pleased to direct. He did not think that anything had since occurred which would induce him to recommend a further remission of the sentence which had been passed upon these persons.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the objection which he saw to the Motion was, that it would not be possible to carry it into effect. The hon. Member for Middlesex had observed, that although he was nominated on many Committees, yet he was only compelled to attend in one, and this was quite true. Now there were no less than 300 private Bills introduced this Session, and if each Member insisted upon attending only one Committee on private Bills, the consequence would be that when sixty Committees had been appointed the numbers of the House would be exhausted and, therefore, 240 of the 300 private Bills must of necessity be postponed. Besides, the proposal of the hon. Member, if adopted, would cause such Committees to be taken haphazard from the House, without any reference to the Members of which it was composed being possessed of any local knowledge or connexions. This course would altogether obstruct the progress of business in such a manner as to render it. Impossible to get on. He did not say, that the present method was the best, or that a better might not be devised, and he hoped that
 1193
 Mr. Baines  advocated the justice and expediency of the measure. He knew parishes where the rate was only one-eighth of the real value. A man residing therein would require to be possessed of eight times the value of property of another in a neighbouring parish, where the entire amount of property was assessed, to enable him to vote on an equality in corporate affairs.
 Mr. Divett  said, that the subject had been discussed so often, and the Report of the Committee was so decisive, that he felt it unnecessary to detain the House with any additional proofs of the corruption of the voters affected by this Bill.
 Mr. Divett  moved the second reading of the Stafford Disfranchisement Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  presented a petition, signed by several hundreds of the principal inhabitants of Nova Scotia, who stated, that they had heard with alarm the proposed alteration of the Scale of duties on Timber. The ostensible object of the alteration was for the benefit of persons engaged in the timber trade;
 1176
 Mr. George F. Young  complained, that when, on a former evening, he wished to know what was the nature of the negotiations pending with some of the northern powers upon this subject, his question was ingeniously evaded by a reply from the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, that because the negotiations were still pending they ought not to be disclosed. He was, however, anxious that the nature of these negotiations should be made known, for it might turn out that the very thing was intended which those connected with the timber trade wished to have avoided. He should take every opportunity of calling the attention of the House to this subject until it was satisfactorily arranged.
 The Speaker  observed, that as far as he was concerned the circumstance to which the hon. Member alluded arose from the two notices contained in the paper of votes of twenty were given at so late a period of the evening that he did not clearly understand until afterwards that they had been given, and the consequence was that a second paper of votes was
 1192
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the colonies would not be affected by any alteration in the timber duties, which would have the effect of lessening or abolishing them altogether. He had full authority from one of the largest of the Colonies concerned in the
 1177
 Mr. Roebuck  begged to ask the hon. Member for Finsbury, whether he intended to renew his Motion relative to a remission of the sentence passed on the Dorchester labourers, now that Orange Lodges and secret societies were suppressed?
 Mr. Brotherton  did not consider himself liable to the charge of partiality which had been imputed to him. He had made it an invariable practice to move the adjournment of the House when new business was brought forward after twelve o'clock, but in the present case he considered himself relieved from the necessity of so doing by the fact that the Bill had been submitted for second reading before twelve o'clock.
 Mr. Hume  brought forward a Motion of which he had given notice, for a better system of appointing Committees of the House upon private Bills. He said that, according to the mode at present adopted, it was quite impossible that the business before the Committees could be properly done. He considered that fifteen was too large a number to have on a Committee; and he thought that nine, or eleven at most, would be a more useful and convenient number. It was utterly impossible that Members who were appointed on several Committees could do the business properly. He was himself named on twelve Committees; and how could he, by any exertion, be in twelve places at once? It was monstrous to expect that he could. He should therefore move, "that every private Bill hereafter committed by the House to a Committee shall be committed to a Select Committee of fifteen Members, drawn by Ballot from the list or lists prepared under the direction of the Speaker, and to which the Bill would, by the standing orders and rules of the House, have been committed."
 Mr. Hume , in reply, said that the House could compel the attendance of members, as they were in the habit of doing with respect to Election Committees, and the same regulations should be enforced with regard to Committees on private Bills.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  said, that if hon. Gentlemen conceived this Bill to be unjust, they should take the proper course for opposing it, and not sanction its defeat by a side-wind, such as the present motion for adjournment.
 Mr. Philip Howard  said, whatever may be the views taken by hon. Members of the Question before the House, there is no one but must admire the feeling and the force with which his hon. and gallant Friend had advocated the cause of his constituents and the old Borough of Stafford.
 "Alone he stands the brunt of the attack." "Solus defendit I lion Hector."
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the levy of the Poor-rate and Highway-rate in all the parishes of England and Wales upon a uniform system of valuation and assessment. There existed great discrepancies, as every body knew, in the valuation not alone of different districts and boroughs, but also between the valuations in different parishes of the same district and borough. He would read several extracts from the Reports of the Poor-Law Commissioners, in order to prove the correctness of his assertion. He might be asked what was the cause of these discrepancies, and the consequent injustice they entailed upon some portions of the population of the country; but he did not know, unless it were the system of jockeying which took place between parish and parish, To remedy these evils, he proposed two simple enactments in the measure he prayed for leave to introduce to the House. The first was, that the poor-rate and highway rates should be levied on the real, and not on the assumed, value of property. The second, that there should be a primary appeal allowed to the Bench of Magistrates at Petty Sessions, which should be held several times a year for that purpose. He did not think that the
 1180
 Mr. Wakley  would be glad to have a few days to consider what course he should adopt. In the course of the discussion upon that subject the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had stated that the question was likely to be satisfactorily set at rest; and, from
 1179
 Mr. Wyse  rose with peculiar pleasure to second the motion of his hon. Friend. From the first moment he had held a seat in that House he had never ceased, whenever the opportunity occurred, to impress upon the Legislature and the Government the necessity of a radical re-organization of the whole local taxing machinery of Ireland. So early as 1831, in resolutions read to the House, he had strongly pressed upon the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley), then engaged in a reform of the grand jury laws, the imperative duty of the government to look into the source of the evils of which all complained, and to substitute representative for the nominated irresponsible bodies which governed the contributions of the people. He had then proposed county boards, acting in conjunction, and under the superintendence of a general board of administration in Dublin, and that again with a committee on Irish affairs of the House of Commons, and charged not only with the local management of public works, but also of charters and education. The government of that day preferred patching up the old system, with the short-sighted policy of most of our governments, to going largely and boldly, like true statesmen, into the whole question. The result then prophesied has since come to pass: the measure, ill-devised, ill-arranged, resting on principles false and unjust, and acting by machinery the most heterogeneous and opposed, has only added new abuses to the old, and rendered reform more than ever necessary. Honourable Members on the other side of the House have a horror of local institutions; they would centralize every thing, draw every thing to the capital leave heart alone, and deprive the members of all right and power of action in the community. Centralization was some times, and, to a certain extent, necessary It cherished, directed, gave energy, intelligence, and uniformity to administration in every part of a state. But it should not
 1188 1189 1190 amour-propre, 1191
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  seconded the motion, but must say, that no measure could effectually relieve the poor of Ireland, which did not embrace, the means of pro-
 1200
 Captain Pechell  denied the evil effects which the hon. Member attributed to the working of the present system, and appealed to the state of the county of Sussex for the sufficiency of the present mode of valuation when properly acted on.
 The Attorney-General  was heartily glad to hear the opinion which his hon. and learned Friend had just expressed. The present law was, undoubtedly, most objectionable, but he thought it would be very inexpedient in this Bill to supply a clause to remove the evil complained of.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  said, it was his intention to move for leave to bring in a Bill for establishing County Boards in Ireland. His principal object in doing so was to afford increased employment for ablebodied labourers. He agreed with other hon. Members in thinking that employment for the able-bodied poor was full as necessary as relief for the helpless poor, and therefore he hoped to obtain leave to introduce the measure he had brought before the
 1182 1183 1184 1185 l, l. l., l., l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. 1186 l. l. s, l., l., s. d. l. l. s. 1187
 Sir Robert Bateson , seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, in his place, wished to ask a question relating to the statement made by him (Sir Robert Bateson) on a former night, when this Bill was before the House. Hon. Members were aware, that he made an assertion to the effect that an officer in the police had communicated to him a circumstance which showed the wish of the Government to make the Police Force in Ireland a political body. But he refused, when taunted by Gentlemen opposite, to state the name of his informant, and he now wished to know if what he had heard from Ireland was true—namely that circular letters had been addressed by
 1178
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, there was no need for Government to go to expense in sending those circular letters. He was willing to state the name of the gentleman upon whose authority he made the assertion, and was on the night he made it ready to do so, but he did not think it right to yield that information to the ironical cheers with which he was assailed from the other side. His informant was Mr. Somerset Curry, and he hoped this person would not have to contend with the vengeance of the Irish Government, or of the party which directed their entire proceedings.
 Sir Robert Peel  called the attention of the House to one of the most serious consequences of the existing mode of levying parish-rates. The hon. Mover had, with much justice, complained of the great inequality of assessments amongst parishioners, and also stated the anomaly existing between separate parishes in the same county, some being assessed at three-fifths of the entire value, some four-fifths, and some at the whole value. This perhaps would signify little between individuals of the same parish, if they were fairly assessed by any fractional amount deemed necessary, whatever it was; but it might be very material to the same individuals and the parish at large, when (heir rates were compared with other parishes, as a rule for the exercise of other than mere parochial privileges. He would beg to ask the noble Lord, whether under the Municipal Corporations' Act the qualifications of those who claimed to vote for Councillors were estimated at the real value of their houses or interest therein, or at the amount of the actual rate paid? Whether, for instance (the amount of the qualification to Vote for a councillor being
 1181 l. l.
 Viscount Morpeth  doubted whether the Legislature was prepared to adopt so sweeping an alteration in the system of Grand-Jury Laws as the present Bill proposed. Without pledging himself, however, either to the principle of the Bill, or any of its details, he would offer no opposition to the hon. Member's embodying his suggestions in the Bill, which he proposed to lay before the House.
 Viscount Morpeth  would not notice the observation of the hon. Baronet respecting the vengeance of the Irish Government. All he would say was, that when the proper time arrived he could show that his charges against Sir Frederick Stoven were altogether unfounded.
 Viscount Morpeth  could tell the hon. Baronet that no such circular letters were, so far as he knew, addressed to the police officers. With respect to the charge brought on a former evening against Sir Frederick Stoven, he could say, that Sir Frederick had been applied to, and Government had received such an answer as would enable them fully to refute the insinuations against his conduct. He was convinced that there existed no foundation whatever for the hon. Baronet's charges. He would take another opportunity of stating fully to the House what he considered a complete vindication of Sir Frederick Stoven's conduct.
 Lord Sandon  said, that the hon. Member for Bath must have been under a mistake, when he said he had the authority of the colony of the Canadas for his assertion. The hon. Member might, no doubt, be in possession of the authority of the Lower House to that effect; but the Lower House was generally composed of merchants and persons resident in towns, having no particular interest in the trade in timber. It was otherwise with the proprietors of timber land, who formed a large proportion of the population of the Upper Province; and he was able to state that they were, almost without exception, deeply opposed to it.
 Mr. Wallace  rose to present three petitions from freeholders, inhabitants of the county of Carlow, and, before doing so, he wished to take that opportunity of renewing his notice of motion for the appointment of a Committee, to inquire into the proceedings alleged to have taken place at the two last Carlow elections. He had endeavoured, to the best of his means and ability, to ascertain, whether the petitions were respectably signed, and whether the statements they contained were consistent with truth, and he thought they came from individuals who would not deceive him. Since showing the petitions to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, the Member for the county (Colonel Bruen), he had found that there was a portion of one petition which contained a statement, for the accuracy of which the petitioners would not vouch, and he therefore at once expressed his determination not to present the petition without that passage being expunged. This had accordingly been done. The first petition he should present was from William Murray, who stated himself to be an elector of Carlow, and a tenant of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, the Member for the county. He had served the hon. Member for three years, in the capacity of a rent-driver, and had signified, in 1832, his intention of voting
 1205 l. 1206 1207 1208
 Colonel Bruen  thanked the hon. Member for Greenock for bringing this matter before the House, for both himself and the rest of the landlords of Carlow were most anxious that such an inquiry as that proposed by the hon. Member should take place, and that the conduct of persons of all sects and parties should be impartially but fully investigated. In fact, it was what they had been endeavouring to obtain for many years without effect, but they were still left to suffer evils which, he ventured to assert, existed in no civilized country of the world. The hon. Member then proceeded to read, in answer to the allegations of Murray, the following extract from a letter from Mr. H. Cary, of Carlow, to himself, dated August 15, 1835, which appears in the Appendix to the Report of the Select Committee on Bribery at Elections:—"William Murray became your tenant, without a lease, for part of the lands of Ballyhacket, containing 8a, or. 18ps, from the 25th of March,
 1209 s. s. s. l. s. d. l s. d., l 1210 l l l l l 1211 1212 1213 s d l 1214 1215 1216 l 1217
 Mr. Hope  said, as it appeared that the accusers in this case had shifted their places, he did not think it necessary then to trouble the House with any remarks; it appeared that the charges made against his hon. Friend were without the least foundation, but he should be always ready, and most happy to meet the question if it should ever again be raised. There was one circumstance, however, about the affair which he confessed he could not clearly understand; he did not understand how it happened that the hon. Member for Greenock having given notice of his motion, should have been so long without bringing it forward. Why had he postponed it so frequently? If he were so unfortunate as to be too low down on the notice-list, why did he not, if the matter were indeed so urgent and important, move on the order of the day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of Supply? He repeated, that it did appear to him most unacountable how such a lengthened postponement could have taken place.
 Mr. Rice  said, he must remind hon. Members that by voting now against the motion, they would not be precluded from taking the matter again into consideration at a future period.
 Mr. Grove Price  would be most happy indeed to hear from the hon. Member opposite any instance in which the officers of his Majesty's navy had interfered, as described by the hon. Member, for the purpose of preventing a retaliation on Carlist prisoners. On the contrary, however, he had heard that an English vessel was lying very near Barcelona when one of the most infernal masacres had taken place that ever disgraced a civilised country. He had heard, too, that when, a few days after, a riot had occurred, for the ostensible purpose of restoring what was called the constitution of 1812, there were not wanting British officers and men to aid the existing authorities.
 Mr. Price , was most happy to hear this statement.
 Sir George Clerk  thought, that his Majesty's Government, when they advised an increase of force on their own responsibility, were the only judges of the extent of that increase. He rose up to congratulate the Secretary for the Admiralty in having been able to satisfy even the hon. Member for Middlesex of the propriety of the present Estimates. [Mr.  Hume,
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he would not prolong this discussion; but he must be allowed to say, that the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, had not been fairly dealt with in this discussion; which, as the House was aware, had arisen entirely out of a rather pointed observation which had been made by the hon. and
 1254
 Mr. Curteis  observed, in reference to the subject of the vote before the House, that as an increase in the naval force was contemplated, old and meritorious officers should not be forgotten. He trusted that promotion would not for the future depend on aristocratic connexion or personal influence.
 Sir George Clerk  alluded to the alteration which was to take place this year in respect of ships in ordinary. He perceived that instead of the three warrant-officers who were hitherto employed on board each of those ships to take care of them, the Government meant to place two or three seamen, in order to effect a saving in the salaries. Now he much doubted, in the first place, whether this arrangement would be productive of any real economy; for was it likely that these men would take as much care of the vessels intrusted to them, from which they were liable to be removed in a week or two, as the warrant-officers heretofore employed for the purpose, who were fixtures to the ship, and would naturally have a greater anxiety to preserve them in good condition. Besides which, would the hon. Member for Middlesex consent that the country should bear the expense of pensioning these officers? And would he think it proper to remove so many comfortable situations of from 60 l. l. 1255
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that as the right hon. Baronet had broken into what he must have known was a perfectly private confidential affair, he should feel released from all obligation to secresy, and should give the whole transaction unreservedly to the House. It was perfectly true, that under a clause introduced by the right hon. Baronet into the certain Act in question, authority was given to the Treasury to dispense in certain cases with its provisions; and to permit officers on half-pay to receive their half-pay in addition to their salaries; and it was equally true that the Treasury did not, in the case of the gallant officer, (Major Graham) the right hon. Baronet's brother, relax the prohibition in his favour. When he (Mr. Baling) consulted with his noble Friend, Lord Althorp, regarding his construction of the clause referred to, his answer was—"You will consider the permission to receive the half-pay as an exception to the rule, that rule being that the assent of the Treasury to that indulgence is not to be expressed in any case, but those intended by the House of Commons to receive the benefit of it, viz. old and distressed officers in reduced circumstances, holding situations under Government. When the gallant officer's case came before the Treasury, it was true that the assent of that Board was given; but when it came to his (Mr. Baring's) knowledge, he went to his noble Friend (Lord Althorp) and said to him—"Consider whether this, which will be almost the first case you will have to lay upon the Table of the House, in which you have exercised the discretion committed to you by that House, shall be the case of a gallant officer, brother of the First Lord of the Admiralty, one of the Cabinet Ministers." At the same time he told Lord Althorp that he considered all the private officers of the Admiralty were under-paid; and that if Major Graham thought fit to apply for an increase of salary, he would give the gallant officer ail the support in his power. He believed a different arrangement had taken place with regard to the salaries of these officers, and that they were now better paid. He had thus detailed the
 1257
 Lord Dudley Stuart  expressed his readiness to vote this increase of 5,000 men. He was sorry that Ministers had veiled the reasons for which they demanded it. The real reason undoubtedly was, their fear of the designs of Russia. Instead of degrading the country by crouching at the feet of Russia, Ministers ought to have spoken out boldly in a language befitting the might of this nation, if they wished to do credit to themselves and benefit to their country. If they had spoken out as they ought to have done, and had avowed the real purposes for which they wanted this increase of force, he thought that they would have had the willing support even of the hon. Member for Middlesex. Great economist as that boo. Member was, he had never known that hon. Member object to the increase of any grant when good grounds were shown for it. Whilst on the subject of Russia, he should like to know whether it was true that Russia had established a blockade on the coast of Circassia without the courtesy of communicating it to other nations. He was sorry that his noble friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs was not in the House. [ Lord Palmerston took his seat cm the Ministerial Bench. 1246
 Lord John Russell  observed, it was unnecessary for him to say much more than to express his gratification at the confidence so generally displayed by the House in the statement made by his Majesty's Ministers, that an increase of the
 1242 1243
 Lord John Russell  was on principle most decidedly opposed to the motion being withdrawn. He strongly objected to the practice of hon. Members bringing forward motions on all kinds of subjects when the House was about to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply- He wished to limit this practice as much as possible, and on these grounds he objected to the motion being withdrawn.
 Lord John Russell  admitted, that great difficulties lay in the way of taking divisions, and that considerable errors had occurred even under the new system; yet, at the same time, that system had worked much better than he had expected, and he thought the House was bound to give it a longer trial.
 Lord John Russell  agreed that the way in which this question had been dealt with was not perfectly fair and ingenuous. Lord Auckland on taking office had given up the office and pension which he had previously enjoyed, amounting to an income of 1,600 l. 1253 l.
 Lord John Russell  rose to order. The hon. Gentleman was not only travelling out of the matter of the petition before the House, but be was acting contrary to a standing order of the House, which forbade any reference to what had been said in a former debate.
 Mr. Charles Wood : The Government did not bring forward this alteration solely as a measure of economy, although they thought it would effect a saving of some moment in the Estimates: their object was to gain greater efficiency in this branch of the service. He had in his possession many eminent authorities in favour of the alteration proposed; but the best argument, in his opinion, was the fact, that 200 of these warrant-officers had been superannuated, being unable to perform even the slight duties which devolved upon them, And he thought it was not an unimportant benefit to the navy to substitute able and efficient seamen in the room of these almost totally inefficient warrant-officers.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that Captain Parker, of the Rodney, offered to land some of his men to check the outrages at Barcelona, as General Mina was absent, but was unfortunately assured by the Governor that the disturbance would pass
 1233
 Mr. Charles Wood  rose for the purpose of offering to the Committee an explanation of the Navy Estimates. The general form of these Estimates was precisely the same as that in which they had been submitted for three or four years past; and as that had been so often and so clearly explained by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Graham), and last year by the noble Lord (Ashley), he would not trouble the Committee by going over the same ground. He would merely refer to those parts of the Estimates in which there was any prominent difference between the votes of last year and those of the present. Confining the statement to those services over which alone they had any power of" reduction, there was a difference between the amount of the votes in this year and the last of 306,000 l. l. 1225 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l., 1226 1227 1228 l. l. 1229 1230 1231 1232
 Mr. Charles Wood  was glad to have the support of the right hon. Baronet, to whom it was only justice to say, that the improvements about to be effected, and now in progress, were but the carrying out of the right hon. Baronet's own views and suggestions. With respect to what had been said as to the increase of men, he begged to remind the hon. Member for Middlesex that the men employed during peace were Very different from those employed during war, and that the same observation applied to the boys. The right hon. Baronet had observed that the reasons assigned by the Government (if any reasons were assigned at all) should be real and substantial reasons, not imaginary ones. He begged to remind the right hon. Baronet that he had stated various reasons besides the one which he had attributed to him as his main reason. He also had assigned as a reason the necessity for maintaining a peace force sufficient for war, in case of an emergency, and the difference between the men employed in peace and those employed in war.
 Mr. Francis Bruen  congratulated his hon. Relative that the numerous and weighty charges which had been brought against him had dwindled into the most absurd and ridiculous complaints of two persons of the names of Murray and Murphy. And what was Murray's complaint? Why, that he had not been allowed a salary for an office which he never possessed; and Murphy complained that he had been forced by his landlord to go to the hustings, and vote contrary to his conscience, and having been obliged to accept of some turf. But the hon. Member for Greenock, who dwelt on the cases of these men, forgot that Murphy had stated that his rent had been paid, and his arrears and law expenses by his neighbour. Now who was the neighbour of this Mr. Murphy, who was so sensitive of bribery? His neighbour was Alexander Raphael. He was the good Samaritan; thus, though a little turf had stuck in his throat, Mr. Murphy would yet swallow the whole of his rent, arrears, and law expenses that were paid by his neighbour. Neither of these men had suffered. They admitted that they still had their franchise, were still In possession of their lands, and that their rent had been paid by their neighbour. What then had they to complain of? Nothing, And so ended the charges against his hon. Relative. Finding that these stories would not do, his hon. Relative's accusers started a fresh hare, in the person of Mr. Alexander, anything, in short, to prove that it was right to seek somewhere else rather than
 1218
 Mr. Grote  could not concur in what appeared to be the general feeling of the Committee with respect to this grant. He contended that nothing like a necessity for so large an increase as 5,000 men to our naval force bad been made out by any of the hon. Members who preceded him. So far were large establishments from preventing war, that he verily believed that the uniform course of history proved that they always led to irritation and hostilities. The only thing in this debate which had sounded satisfactorily to his feelings was, the declaration of the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, that it was not intended that this Estimate should be a permanent one.
 Mr. Robinson  defended the opinions which he had formerly expressed, and said that complaints had been made by several of Our merchants trading with South America that in the ports of that continent our naval force was in general inferior to that of the United States.
 Mr. Robinson  was sure that the statement of the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty, as well as the proposal made by the Government, would be satisfactory to the country, and, above all, when it became known that the proposed increase did not result from any fear of hostile attacks. He thought also that the thanks of the country were due to the Government for the alterations they had made in the Estimates.
 Mr. George F. Young  expressed his full concurrence in the Motion before the Committee. The hon. Member for Halifax, in enumerating the naval strength of other countries, had omitted to mention that of France, [ Cries of "No! No!"
 Sir Henry Hardinge  took the liberty of asking what situation a Mr. Creevy held?
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that the noble Lord had put the case on its true ground, fairly, openly, and in that straightforward manner which was highly honourable to him. He must, however, be permitted to observe, that nobody blamed Lord Auckland in his absence for what had been done. But the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had certainly not treated the question with the same manliness and straightforwardness. He accused the right hon. Baronet of having thrown out an insinuation against the appointment of Lord Auckland, for which certainly there was no ground or pretence whatever. It was perfectly true that Lord Auckland had acted with great prudence. What more had the right hon. Baronet stated? The noble Lord stipulated to give up 1,600 l. l.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that this estimate was not intended to be the permanent peace establishment; he did not consider that it would be for the honour or interest of this country, unless we kept up a naval force consistent with its high rank in the scale of nations.
 Mr. Warburton  was opposed to a return to the old system which was one of doubt confusion, and obscurity, and he should certainly vote against the motion.
 The Speaker  observed, that as the subject would come under discussion on a future day, perhaps the hon. Gentleman would find an opportunity to address the House on that occasion.
 Mr. Buckingham  felt himself called upon to answer the question put to him by the hon. and learned Member, and he begged to state distinctly that he had no knowledge whatever of the existence of the paragraph until he first saw it yesterday; that he had no communication with the editor on the subject; that he was as ignorant, in short, as the hon. and learned Member himself of the whole matter. He had been so many years a public character, that it was not very likely, at his late time of day, for him to write in the manner and in the terms adopted by the writer of that paragraph. He had written much, but no imputation of that kind had ever fallen from him. He, therefore, hoped the House would give him full credit for an entire non-participation in this matter. Of coarse, in a country, like this, where strong political feelings existed, and widely different opinions were Sincerely entertained, it was natural that they should be expressed strongly. But he again begged to deny any knowledge whatever of or participation in the matter.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy,  on the Order of the day being moved for the House resolving itself into a Committee of Supply, rose, pursuant to notice, to call their attention to the want of success which had attended the new plan for dividing, by sending the Members into different lobbies at opposite ends of the House. Under the new prac-
 1222
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  replied, he was the advocate for publicity in the fullest extent; but as the House seemed to entertain the opinion that the new plan had not received a fair trial, he would, with the permission of the House, withdraw
 1223
 Mr. Hardy  would then give notice, that when the Motion of the hon. Member for Greenock should be brought forward, he would take the opportunity, with the permission of the House, of vindicating himself against the aspersions that had been thrown on his character.
 Mr. Hardy  only wished to have an opportunity to vindicate his character from the imputations that had been made against him.
 Mr. Hardy  observed, that although there had been no imputation on him in the petition presented to-night, or in the petition presented on a former occasion,
 1219
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to call the attention of the House to what he conceived to be a Breach of Privilege. He seldom addressed the House on personal matters, and on this occasion he should not have done so were it not under very peculiar circumstances. The House must be aware that during the present Session a Bill was brought in for compensation to Mr. Buckingham, and that, on that occasion, he thought it his duty to address the House, stating the grounds upon which he should give his vote, and his motive for opposing the Bill. The Bill was lost. He held in his hand a paper, which he would read to the House, in which certain accusations were brought against him, as a Member of that House, which he conceived was a breach of privilege. He begged to observe, that when the public press abused him in vague and general terms it gave him no pain; but
 1220 Sheffield Iris 1221 Sheffield Iris
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he should be glad to know for what purpose Captain Parker had been stationed near Barcelona, and whether he interfered by the orders of the Admiral?.
 Mr. Roebuck  defended the course adopted by his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, on this vote, and said that it was undoubtedly true that if we did not pursue a different course from that which we had hitherto followed, Russia would take Constantinople, and shut us out from the Black Sea. He would not, however, increase our naval force on that account,
 1247
 Mr. Hume  felt bound to say, that the Estimates, which he held in his hand,
 1235 1236
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the insinuations made by the right hon. Baronet were founded in fact, they made out a very disgraceful case, both against the noble Lord and the Government who appointed him. He sincerely trusted that his Majesty's Ministers would be able to give a satisfactory reply to this charge, and show it to be devoid of truth. With respect to the right hon. Baronet's proposal to increase the pay of the petty officers in the navy, he thought that if a rule were to be made that half the lieutenants should be selected from that class of persons, there would be no need for any pecuniary addition of the kind, as an inducement to good conduct. He would ask the right hon. Baronet whether, during the whole time that he had been in office, one single mate had been promoted to superior rank? There were many of these deserving men, who had served for years during the war, and for years after it, and yet no one of them, as he believed, had been rewarded by promotion. No! promotion, both in the army and the navy, was reserved entirely for the Aristocracy, to the total exclusion of men of equal age and superior worth, who happened to be more humbly connected.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he must admit he had made use of a very strong expression with reference to a noble Lord, whose appointment as First Lord of the Admiralty had been brought under the consideration of the House. He should always feel regret when he used harsh language, when it was not warranted by the conduct of the party to whom it was applied; and he felt bound, in this instance, to state to the House that he would not have made use of the observation which he had expressed, if he had understood the matter in the light in which it now appeared.
 Mr. Borthwick  could assure the hon. Baronet that he had no intention whatever to act in the present instance hostilety towards the Government; neither was it his wish that any part of the money intended for the Mauritius should be appropriated for the benefit of any other colony, because he considered that such a course would be exceedingly bad policy. He would at once adopt the suggestion of the hon. Baronet, and postpone his motion until Tuesday; but if it were not allowed then to come on, all he could say was that he would insist on bringing it forward on the next supply night, without caring what party suffered, whether the party on his side of the House, or the Gentlemen who sat on the opposite benches.
 Mr. Borthwick  opposed the Motion for the Speaker leaving the Chair, in order that the House might resolve itself into a Committee of Supply. It was not his wish to impede the business before the House, but he at the same time must persist in bringing forward the Motion relative to the Mauritius of which he had given notice, unless the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir G. Grey) fixed some day when it should come on. He had endeavoured to bring it forward on two several occasions, but on each night, owing to some fatality or another, the House was counted out. As, however, he was far from desirous of throwing any obstacle in the way of the Estimates which were fixed for that evening, he should be but too happy if the hon. Baronet would relieve him from the necessity of pressing his Motion by appointing some day when it should come on.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that some observations had been made by the right hon. Baronet opposite in reference to a noble Friend of his, which, if that noble Lord were present, he was sure he would have had no difficulty in replying to satisfactorily; but as his noble Friend was not present, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was perfectly ready to defend him from the charge imputed to him. It had been stated that some transactions had taken place between his Majesty's Government and Lord Auckland, relative to the appointment of the noble Lord as First Lord of the Admiralty, which an hon. Friend, near him, had characterised as highly disgraceful. Now, he begged to say, on the part of his noble Friend, that no transaction had taken place connected with that appointment which could attach any kind of stigma to the noble Lord; there was no transaction,
 1249
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to observe in reply to the right hon. Baronet, that in respect to his notion of a stipulation, no such word had been known Or heard of in the present case. In respect also to what the right hon. Baronet seemed to wish to suggest, namely, that a pension paid out of the Civil List, being held only for the life of the Sovereign, was one not of equal value with a Parliamentary pension—with respect to the ungenerous insinuation—[" No, no.
 Admiral Adam  replied, that Captain Parker had been sent to that station in
 1234
 Sir Edward Codrington  was understood to ask the right hon. Baronet, the Member for East Cumberland (Sir James Graham), how it happened that retiring pensions had been secured to the Lords of the Admiralty, when there were so many gentlemen to be found who would be happy to fill the office of First Lord of the Treasury without such a stipulation? How came it that a late Lord of the Admiralty (Lord Auckland) had had a retiring pension guaranteed to him on his vacating office?
 Sir Edward Codrington  had himself seen, when he was at St. Petersburgh, twenty-four or twenty-five sail of the line there; he therefore considered it necessary that we should make a corresponding increase in our naval force in this country. He also thought that what was going on in the Black Sea required, and ought to meet, our immediate attention. It put our ancient ally, Turkey, in great danger, and we ought, therefore, to be ready to afford her immediate protection. He contended that it was the duty of the Admiralty to take care that the ships we had at sea were sufficiently manned, not with mere boys, but with
 1244 s. s. s.
 Sir Edward Codrington  had never known a naval officer sacrifice his duty for party feelings. Greatly as Lord Ingestrie had distinguished himself, and without at all detracting from the merits of that noble and gallant Officer, he must say that Captain Parker had exceeded him, for he had offered to lend his men to prevent the horrible massacre. The offer had, however, been declined by the Governor. As to receiving the unfortunate people on board, every British Officer would do the same, without inquiring whether they were Carlists or Christinos, Greeks or Turks, as had been shown by the conduct of Captain Hamilton. With regard to the proposed increase of the naval force, he was glad of it, and should have been better pleased to have seen that increase doubled. The increase was necessary, for hon. Members seemed to forget that this was a maritime and commercial country. On the first revolution in the Brazils he stated at the Admiralty that an admiral and at least five sail of the line ought to be sent out to protect the many millions of British property deposited there. He pointed this out as the only means of saving that property. This, was not done, the property was destroyed, and British merchant ships seized for want of protection. To keep this country from insult, and to protect her commerce, a naval force was necessary, and he rejoiced to see the increase now proposed.
 Sir George Grey  said, it was his wish to have the question to which that motion referred settled as speedily as possible. He had himself, however, postponed a motion of which he had given notice, in relation to the Mauritius, until Tuesday;
 1224
 Captain Pechell  defended the marine force of the country from the attacks which the hon. Member for Middlesex had made upon it, and contended that the present force of marines was necessary, as it would be inexpedient to have the whole force at once at sea. He supported the present increase of our naval force upon different grounds from those which had been se-
 1245 R. Peel
 Sir H. Verney  was understood to say that, no doubt if there were an occasion for the vaunted fleet of Russia, which seemed so powerful, to engage in a war, they would soon be brought back from the Baltic and Black Sea to harbour again.
 Mr. Ward  submitted, that as the motion had been brought forward, the House was bound to pronounce an opinion upon it one way or other.
 Mr. Ward  did not consider the subject so much a matter of life and death, as that the proceedings of the House should be stopped on the question of going into a Committee of Supply for the purpose of considering and disposing of such a motion. It would be most extraordinary indeed if they were to rescind such a resolution as that after only a fortnight's trial—which certainly could not be considered a fair trial. He was ready to acknowledge, that if the publicity of divisions could not be obtained without such an expenditure of the public time as that which the hon. Member opposite described, the idea had much better be abandoned, but he entreated that the plan should' first be fairly tried, at all events.
 Sir James Graham  said, that as far as his own case went, he (Sir J. Graham) had filled the office of First Lord of the
 1248
 Sir James Graham  thought it very desirable to hold out every possible inducement to seafaring men, of good character, to enter into the King's service, and to secure their steadiness and efficiency, by a system of rewards and punishments other than corporal. The best way of attaining this most desirable end was, in his opinion, to increase the bounty in volunteering, to enable the men, by good conduct, to rise to the rank of petty officers, and, at the same time, to increase the pay now allowed to that class. Such an increase would occasion an addition in the Estimates of not more than 10,000 l. l.
 Sir James Graham  observed, that if he had not taken part on former occasions in the discussion of these Estimates, he should not have troubled the House on that occasion. Before he made any other observations, he felt bound to congratulate the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty on what was extremely rare, namely, praise bestowed by the hon. Member for Middlesex. With reference to the alterations in the arrangement of the Estimates, he had no hesitation in stating that the hon. Secretary, or rather the Board of Admiralty, were entitled to credit, as they were substantial improvements. He was glad to hear the hon. Member for Middlesex say that the present Estimates were clear and precise; they certainly were so, and nearly all that he had some years ago thought necessary, with respect to them, had been attained: he had commenced the present system of arrangement in this branch of the service, and it had been fully carried into effect by the present Board of Admiralty. He understood last year that a great diminution had been made in the number of the crews of ships of war actively employed; he had stated then that he thought this reduction of the effective force very injudicious, and he was still more satisfied now of the propriety of his observations. The subject had repeatedly been under discussion at the Board of Admiralty, when he was a member of it, and the best judgment the Admiralty could then come to was, that such a diminution of the crews even in times of peace was highly inexpedient.—Within the last few years the strength of vessels had been greatly increased; and it was only expedient, when they increased the effective force and size of their ships, that they should increase the number of able seamen on board. He well recollected that a gallant Admiral opposite had told him that it was more safe to go into action with six ships of the line fully manned, than with ten sail under-manned. Another important point to which he wished to advert was, the importance of increasing the number of hoys on board our ships of war. He was glad that in this Estimate
 1237 1238 1239
 Sir James Graham  had no wish to make any personal attack upon any Gentleman who was not present in that House or in the country to answer for himself, but it did so happen that the present was not the first occasion on which he had made this statement with respect to the noble Lord. Aspersions of a similar character had been thrown on himself (Sir James
 1250 An hon. Member l. l. l. 1251 l.
 Sir James Graham,  in reference to the salary of the present Private Secretary to the First Lord of the Admiralty, wished to make one observation. He had been accused, in the course of the debate, of making "insinuations"—of casting out suggestions; "he should now merely state a few facts. When he (Sir J. Graham) held the office of First Lord of the Admiralty, his brother, Major Graham, was his Private Secretary. At that time Lord Althorp was Chancellor of the Exchequer. A Bill had been introduced for preventing officers on half-pay receiving their half-pay in conjunction with their salaries while holding any office under Government, but at the same time giving the Lords of the Admiralty discretion, in certain circumstances, to dispense with the provisions of the Act. His brother, Major Graham, applied to the Lords of the Treasury for their permission to receive his half-pay (he being a British officer), and also his salary. which would only together amount to 500 l. 1256 l.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there was only one point which called for observation, namely, the proposed increase in the naval force. No doubt that increase was very considerable, being not less than 5,000 men. The number proposed in the Estimate of last year was 26,500 men and 2,000 boys, and the addition to these of 5,000 men was certainly a very material one. But he had always contended, in opposition to the hon. Member for Middlesex, that the Estimate of any one year could not in any case be made a rule for any, even for the very next year. Circumstances might, at any point of time, suddenly arise, demanding an increase of force, between the Estimate of one year and that of the following year, such grounds for the apprehension of greater danger, or some other such consideration might intervene, as rendered it perfectly justifiable and proper to call for an increased demonstration of naval force on the part of this country. He could not see that on the present occasion there would be the slightest inconsistency chargeable upon those hon. Members who, having last year
 1240 vice versa. 1241
 Sir Robert Peel  could not concur in thinking that the House was bound to pronounce an opinion upon a motion after the hon. Member who had brought it forward expressed a desire to withdraw it.
 Viscount Howick  thought it necessary to come forward and state distinctly, in behalf both of his noble Friend (Lord Auckland) and the Government, that the arrangement made was precisely one of that particular description Which the Act of the right hon. Baronet himself was meant to sanction and provide for. "What were the facts of the case? Lord Auckland, not possessing any very considerable income of his own, having a place in Greenwich Hospital, which, by the custom of the country, was considered as for life, and it being greatly for the advantage of Government that he should occupy the higher and more important situation of First Lord of the Admiralty, he stated to Lord Grey that it would be impossible for him, in his circumstances, to take an office of which, by a change of Administration, he might be deprived the following day, surrendering at the same time a permanent provision for life. Such was the statement made; and it was precisely to meet that case that the Pension Act had been proposed; because persons of inconsiderable fortune could not be expected to accept the higher situations in the Government, if by so doing they surrendered the provision they already had, unless some mode were adopted of securing themselves in the manner proposed by that Bill. Precisely, therefore, in conformity with that Act, a
 1252 l. l.
 Viscount Howick  replied, that Mr. Creevy had resigned the office of Treasurer to the Ordnance, and had accepted the situation which Lord Auckland had vacated.
 Viscount Palmerston  assured the hon. Member that on the occasion to which he referred there was no necessity for a recurrence to force, as recommended by the hon. Member, It was only just to the French Government to say, that a communication of an amicable nature took place between the two Powers, which led to a satisfactory termination of the matter.
 Mr. Emerson Tennant  would not waste the time of the House by replying to the very unhandsome personal attack with which the hon. Member for Dundalk had seen fit to favour them in his eloquent address—but with regard to the statement he had made of an error in the number of the signatures in the petition which he (Mr. Tennant) had presented on a previous occasion, he could only say, that if such an error existed, it originated with his constituents and not with himself. One would naturally suppose that the number of signatures attached to such declarations of opinion would be the most obvious test as to whether the contents were in accordance with the feelings of the community whence they emanated; and if the hon. Member for Dundalk conceived, on Monday last, that a petition with between 4,000 and 5,000 names attached to it was an evidence so contemptible and fallacious as not even to deserve to be laid on the table of the House, the hon. Member did not surely come down to-day in order to ask them to attach greater consequence to the document which he presented, and which scarcely contained one fifth that number. The circumstance of the getting up of this petition was, in his opinion, a prospective illustration of what might be anticipated from the workings of that party spirit which existed, not only in Belfast, but in every town in Ireland, and which would be called into vigorous and permanent action should the present Bill pass into a law—a party who were already prepared to make factious contest about every question, however beneficial or harmless, so soon as the setting up of Municipal Corporations should have established annual struggles for religious and political ascendency throughout every at present peaceful community in Ireland. If there ever was a petition emanating from a commercial body which, more than another, might have
 1306 1307 1308
 Mr. Lefroy  rose to second the motion. He would not go into all the objections that might be urged against the measure. He would confine himself to those which were most obvious, and then allude to the plan proposed to be substituted by his noble Friend who spoke last. The measure proposed by his Majesty's Government was, in point of fact, exposed to every objection that had ever been urged against the old corporation system in Ireland, with the exception of that of self-election aggravated by placing the power in the hands of an ignorant instead of an enlightened faction. It was calculated to produce still greater evils than the system which it was proposed to supersede, and those evils without any alloy of good. He was most anxious to discover what the real principle of this measure was, but he looked for it in vain in the speech of the Attorney-General for Ireland, or in any speech he had hitherto heard upon the subject. He could discover no possible clue by which the conflicting principles of the Bill could be reconciled. Upon what ground was it that several places were introduced into this Bill, while others with equal, or much stronger, claims to municipal government were totally omitted? Not less than 117 places had been visited, and inquiry made into their various circumstances by the Commissioners, or rather, he should call it, the inquisition appointed by his Majesty's Government. Of these 117 places sixty-seven were selected by the Bill of last session for the purpose of being incorporated upon the new plan. Many of those 117 places had Corporations before. For what reason was it that there were in the Bill of last Session sixty-seven places selected for incorporation, and that in the present Bill the sixty-seven were reduced to fifty-four. Hitherto they had got no information at all upon this point, no reason whatever given for it. They were left entirely to conjecture. With respect even to the present number of fifty-four, was the principle uniform? The first eleven of these were in schedule A, and in schedule B something like a principle was announced. In seven of the places in schedule A the principle put forward was, that they contained a population of 20,000 and upwards, and in schedule B, that the population was under
 1320 1321 l 1. 1. 1. 1322 1323 1. 1324 1325 quo warranto 1326 l l l l 1. 1327 l l 1328
 Mr. O'Connell : I had a petition presented, praying not to grant emancipation on those terms.
 Lord Francis Egerton : in proceeding to discharge the duty imposed upon me by the notice I have given, I feel more sensibly than usual the anxiety of a position, in which without anxiety I never find myself. If there be any thing calculated to revive that feeling, it is to be found by me in the circumstance that I rise to revive, I might also say to continue, a discussion, which to my humble judgment, and with reference to all sides of the House, has hitherto displayed more of argument and less of acrimony than is usual on questions in which conflicting parties put forth their strength, and more especially when the battle ground is that great field, Ireland, so often the theatre of Parliamentary conflict—would that it were confined to Parliamentary conflict alone. Little as I may be able to contribute any addition to the argument, I do trust I may be able to succeed in avoiding to originate any infusion of that second ingredient I have named, which by its absence has distinguished the debate which
 1309 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314 1315 1316 1317 1318 1319
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on this Bill.
 Mr. Dunbar  said, it was not his intention, being a very young Member of the House, to trespass long on its indulgence; but he felt that he should not be discharging his duty to his constituents nor to the inhabitants of the borough of which he had the honour to be one of the representatives, were he to be silent on art occasion when their interests were so deeply involved. It would be in the recollection of the House that his hon. Friend and colleague had
 1303 1304 1305
 Sir Henry Hardinge : Was not that previous to the passing of the Emancipation Bill? It had been stated by Mr. Littleton, at present Lord Hatherton, that the clause of the Bill affecting the constituency of Ireland, and raising the 40 s. l 1368 "Do you know whether Mr. O'Connell, in the county of Kerry, at Tralee, from a balcony or platform, in front of the Commercial Reading-rooms, addressed the people on one day, and that he stated in substance, as it has been printed in the Kerry papers, 'That there was not a demon in Hell more base than the Catholic who should vote for the Knight of Kerry?" and then, these words were repeated, 'I will have a death's-head and cross-bones painted or printed on a placard, and posted on the door of any Catholic who votes for him?'"—Mr. Brownrigg, to this question, answered, "I heard these words used in substance by Mr. O'Connell." Mr. Brownrigg was then asked, "Did you hear the first part, 'That there was no demon in Hell more base than the Catholic who should vote for the Knight of Kerry?'" to which he answered, "I did." In conclusion he was asked, "Do not yon think that this speech, taken in connexion with the public speech made in Dublin, was calculated to alarm any Catholic of the lower orders if he voted for the Knight of Kerry?"—Answer: "I think so." 1369 "You say, that Lord Kenmare, in the first instance, was inclined to be neutral, and to take no part in the election?—"I said so." "And that the denunciations of Mr. O'Connell in the county caused him to change his mind, and, by his agent, or otherwise, to inform the freeholders, it was his wish they should support the Knight of Kerry?''—"I saw it in Lord Kenmare's own handwriting, that that was his wish." "You saw it in some document of Lord Kenmare's?"—"Yes; I did." "To whom was that addressed?"—"It was addressed to the agent, Mr. Gallwey." "Have you any copy of that letter?''—" I have." "Will you produce it?"—"This is the letter:"— "DEAR MR. GALLWEY.—You are aware, as the public must be, that it was my determination to lake no part in the approaching election for the county. We are now arrived at a point beyond which forbearance is no longer possible; it is not now a matter of politics, the question at issue is, whether we are to bow our heads to a system of insolent dictation and intimidation; whether those freeholders who will not submit to be used as mere puppets by Mr. O'Connell, are to be pointed at with impunity as objects of insult and assassination, for what other meaning can be attached to the denunciation, that a death's-head and cross-bones are to be affixed to the doors of those independent individuals who will not obey his mandates! when the mob in Tralee is told, that those who will not vole as he dictates, are to be dragged from the hustings and trampled under foot. Under
 1370 (Signed) "KENMARE." 1371 O'Connell "You made a Report to the Government dated 'Constabulary-Office, Tralee, January 13th, 1835,' in which you said, 'I have the honour to transmit herewith an affidavit, sworn before me this day by a most respectable gentleman, in consequence of which, and in the absence of the High-Sheriff, I have, in conjunction with other Magistrates, made arrangements for the due protection of the freeholders in question. Extract from the deposition:—"So great is the spirit of outrage which prevails in the said town of Cahirsween and its neighbourhood, that on Sunday last, the 11th of January inst, the Protestant congregation of said town, on returning from Divine service, were pelted with filth and dirt; and even before the termination of Divine service, several riotous and ill-disposed persons came to the door of the church, and round it in every direction, and threw gravel and dirt at it; that unless an efficient police or military escort be appointed for the protection of the said freeholders on their way to Tralee, he is convinced they will be deterred by force and terror of their lives from voting at the ensuing election. (Signed) "Taken and sworn before me, this 14th day of January, 1835. (Signed) "J. H. BROWNRIGG." "I took that deposition." 1372 1373 1374 l 1375 l l
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, had addressed the House for the first time, in a praiseworthy attempt to remove all impression that certain declared allegations made against the Roman Catholics, on the subject of the exercise of their influence at elections, were unfounded. He was sorry to say, though with the utmost desire to think these allegations untrue, that his experience, as a Member of the Intimidation Committee, could not bear him out in the hope that
 1365 New Times Morning Journal "Have you been in the habit of reporting speeches or debates of any description previous to your taking that address of Father Kehoe?—During three sessions of Parliament I was parliamentary reporter for the New Times and Morning Journal. "Then you have had, before you took down Father Kehoe's address, considerable practice in reporting accurately speeches that may be delivered at public meetings?—Yes, I have. "Are you persuaded that that address which is now before you; and which you reported, is an accurate version in substance of what Father Kehoe delivered at the altar to his congregation?—I am persuaded that it is an accurate report of certain expressions used by Father Kehoe on that occasion; everything that is there reported is a faithful statement of the substance of the priest's address, the sense of that address, and as near the words, upon the virtue of my [oath, as I believe it possible for any parliamentary reporter to report a speech," "Would you, if you were put on your oath, state that this was an accurate report?—I would. "Now, although you have been asked whether you believe the substance is accurate, do
 1366 "That word 'lickspittle' is reported in three or four places, and therefore you are of opinion that you could not have mistaken that word?—Decidedly. "He is again called a 'detestable, hypocritical, apostate lickspittle, a ruffian, and a miscreant, to be held up by the finger to scorn and detestation and contempt; I ask you again whether those words 'miscreant, ruffian, lickspittle were again used?—I am sure they were. "I understood you to say that the whole of the substance as there reported was delivered by the rev. Gentleman at the altar, and as nearly as possible the very words?—As nearly as possible for a parliamentary reporter to report it. "Here are other words which are very important, and on which I beg you will be very cautious in staling whether you are sure those words were used by the priest: 'A body of poor-laws will be in force, and every tenant that every landlord ejects, that same landlord will be obliged to support; and who are these bloody landlords, these tyrannical despots? Why, they are fellows whose names were not known when your ancestors possessed the land they now possess; but a time will soon come that will oblige them to prove what right and. title they have to their possessions. Now, Sir, if you were upon your oath, are you certain that is an accurate version of that part of the address of Father Kehoe?—I am," 1367 s. s. l l Hear, hear! from Mr. O'Connell
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that the supporters of this Bill claimed for the towns of Ireland Municipal Reform similar to that which had been granted to the towns of England; but, before he proceeded to that question, he wished to make a few observations on another part of the case. It was said, that this measure and the English Bill proceeded on the same principles; but he begged to call the attention of the House to many points in which they differed most essentially. In the first place, he wished the House to look at the fourth section of the Bill now under discussion, and to compare it with the sixth, the corresponding section of the English Bill. This section of the Irish Bill, it would be found, contained a great variety of matter which was not inserted in the English Bill, but still not one word had he heard from the hon. Gentlemen opposite which explained, or any way accounted for, the obvious departures in this respect of the Irish Bill from the provisions of the English Bill. The Bill now under consideration provided, after stating that the new Corporations were "to be styled mayor, aldermen, and b urgesses—that they shall be capable in law, by the council hereinafter named of such borough, to do and suffer all acts which such bodies corporate lawfully may do and suffer, and shall be entitled to, invested with, and possessed of, all the lawful rights, trusts, properties, and estates now or lately legally invested in, or belonging, or which of right ought to belong, to such boroughs or bodies corporate respectively, save only and except those vested in the charitable trustees of such boroughs, pursuant to the provisions hereinafter contained; and the mayor of each of the said boroughs shall be capable in law to do and suffer all acts which the chief officer of such borough might or may lawfully do or suffer, so far as such powers, rights, trusts, and privileges respectively are not altered or annulled by the provisions of this Act." The latter
 1341 1342 l 1343 l l 1344 1345 1346 toto cœlo Cheers. 1347 1348 1349 minimum l 1350 1351  No, no. l l 1352 1353 1354 1355 l s. d. l Freeman's Journal and Kilkenny Journal 1356 1357
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, it is not my intention, Sir, in the few observations which I consider it my duty to offer to the House, to follow the hon. and learned Member, who has just sat down, through the minute details which he has been pleased to give of circumstances alleged to have occurred at certain contested elections in Ireland. The facts to which he has alluded have already been laid before the House in the evidence given before the Intimidation Committee. Whether the hon. and learned Gentleman has or has not stated them fully and fairly to the House on the present occasion, I am not (without referring to the voluminous evidence of that Committee) in a condition either to affirm or deny. That the hon. and learned Member has only read to the House what he found in that evidence, I admit; but whether the facts which he has laid before the House have not been contradicted or qualified in other parts of that evidence, or whether what he has taken for granted as positive facts have not been
 1358 1359 prima facie prima facie 1360 1361 1362 a priori a fortiori 1363 1364
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  presented a Petition from Belfast, in favour of the Municipal Reform Bill, and praying that a measure of Reform should be extended to Ireland on the same principles as those which have already passed for England and Scotland. The petitioners stated that they wished to have the town of Belfast included in the provisions of any Bill of that nature which might pass the House, as its corporation had been for a considerable period inoperative for any useful purpose, or for its good local government. He respectfully requested the attention of the House to the prayer of the petition. It would be in the recollection of hon. Members, that a petition had been presented a few nights ago by one of the Members for Belfast with a directly opposite prayer. The petitioners, whose wishes he now brought forward, had at first felt it unnecessary to trouble the House on the subject, confiding in the wisdom and justice of the legislature in extending to them a measure based on the principles of the Acts for England and Scotland. They did not intend to forward any petition until they had heard of that which was presented by the hon. Member opposite, and which he (Mr. Crawford) must say was smuggled through Belfast. That petition, doubtless, never saw the light of day until it was presented in that House. No notice of the intention to get it up was given, and the inhabitants of Belfast first
 1302
 Viscount Howick  was surprised to hear the right hon. and gallant Officer tell the House, that if there were anything in the state of society in Ireland which would render it at all advisable to give to that country the benefits of an improved municipal Corporation, he for one would not be averse from the introduction of a measure for that purpose; but, he was surprised, because the gallant Officer was bound, in making such a communication, at the same time to have made out a case to show that the Bill did itself contain provisions actually inconsistent with the species of Reform which he was willing to grant. The gallant Officer had not shown that the Bill contained anything which it would be unsafe to grant to the people of Ire-
 1376 s. 1377 1378 l 1379 1380 l 1381 1382 1383 1384 1385 1386
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that one thing had been very clearly made out by this discussion, namely, that his noble and right hon. predecessors in the office which he had then the honour of filling, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and the noble Members for North and South Lancashire, must have gained from their official residences in Ireland, such an insight into the whole constitution of these Irish Corporations, that they rushed with eagerness, beyond all others, to the work of destroying those Corporations, and were anxious that the Legislature should obliterate every record and trace of them from the land which they had so long encumbered and disgraced. In rising to offer a
 1329 1330 1331 1332 1333 1334 1335 l l l 1336 l s. l 1337 1338 1339 1340
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  said, it might be some apology for his rising so early to address the House, that though this was not. a question, the decision upon which
 2 3 l. l. 4 5 ad captandum bona fide 6 7
 Mr. Randal Plunkett  felt convinced, that after the speech the House had heard, it would have no objection to have the same subject differently treated. He remembered to have read in an Irish provincial paper, that on a certain day, in a certain month, a spinster, of an age he felt it his duty to forget, had "renounced the errors of the Roman Catholic persuasion, to embrace those of the Protestant." It appeared to him that the question was, shall we abandon the corruptions of the Protestant Corporations, to embrace those of the Roman Catholic? He had not the good fortune to know much of the motives of reformers; but if he was to judge from what he had read of the statements of those who supported the Reform Bill, as of real Reformers, then was he justified in considering that the excision of all those excrescences which had by time grown up on our venerable institutions, to cut away root and branch, those noxious plants which cumber the ground, was their principle. But when we come to proceed on these their own principles—
 Turn vero manifesto fides, Danaumque patescunt Insidiæ— —Victorque Sinon incendia miscet Insultans.— 8
 Mr. Randall Plunkett : "The words I used were, that there had been, and that I would not say, that there were not still Members of Parliament who belonged to that society, which we, the uninitiated, call Ribbonism, but which is, in fact, not the name, I believe, which the parties take, as they call themselves Sons of the Shamrock, and other designations. Is the hon. Member for Middlesex satisfied? [ The hon. Member nodded assent. 9 juris consults 10 l. l. l. The hon. Member here read the extract. 11
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  said, that as this was his first time of addressing the House, he had much need of its indulgence, while he ventured to make a few observations upon the important measure now under consideration. He owed a double debt of gratitude and thanks to his Majesty's Ministers for the course they had pursued on the present occasion. First, for having introduced the Bill now before the House, calculated, as it was, to give satisfaction to the Irish people, and next, for their uncompromising opposition to the amendment of the noble Lord opposite. Could any hon. Member fail to see that the amendment of the noble Lord was nothing else than a direct stigma on the Catholics of Ireland? He could tell the noble Lord, that if he felt for Ireland and the Irish people that interest which he had professed the night before in his speech, he would have done a much better service to that country, and earned for himself more of the gratitude of that people; had he, when he was Secretary for that part of the empire, introduced a similar measure to the present Bill, rather than have lent the aid of his name, and character, and station to the upholding of Protestant ascendancy. But, no; so long as Protestant ascendancy was to be maintained, and so long as oppression and injustice was to be the governing rule for Ireland, so long was
 12 13
 Mr. William Ord  did not intend to follow any of the speakers who had that evening preceded him through the details into which they had entered, but should at once come to deal with some of the arguments advanced last night by the hon. and gallant Member for Launceston (Sir H. Hardinge.) That hon. and gallant Member had introduced into his speech
 17 18
 Mr. William Ord  thanked the right hon. Baronet for the suggestion, and congratulated him upon the spirit in which it was made. He would not forget it when next they met upon the border. The part of the evidence which he had read was merely for the purpose of showing that upon which the argument of the right hon. and gallant Member for Launceston was founded, and he had not conceived it necessary to read the remainder, inasmuch as the whole of it had last night been read by the right hon. and gallant Member himself. Without, therefore, again reading it, he would now state that part of the evidence which referred to the cause which had evidently led to this (he admitted) disgraceful outrage. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford (Sir R. Inglis), would remember that this evidence referred to a Mr. Malcomson, whose man, a miller, of the name of Looby, was called before the Committee, and gave evidence to the effect that he had been dismissed from Mr. Malcomson's service for no other offence than having voted according to his conscience. He would not read his testimony, because, on the present occasion, the statement was sufficient that the man told Mr. Ronayne "that voting for him would be fatal to him;"that the man was not pressed to vote until late in the election; that he did vote on the last day, and was dismissed in consequence. It was lamentable, but not wonderful, under such circumstances, that this should
 19 20
 Mr. Morgan John O'Connell  would trespass on the indulgence of the House for a very few moments, on a question of vital importance to the empire, particularly to that portion of it with the representation of which he had the honour of being connected. He was struck with a peculiarity which had distinguished the progress of the debate from its commencement: that, with the exception of the speech of the right hon. the Member for the Univer-
 21 22 23 * * 24
 Mr. O'Connell  said, I am glad, Sir, you have enabled me to recover for a few seconds from the blaze of religious eloquence with which the right hon. Baronet has just thought proper to overwhelm us. I shall not, on the present occasion, follow the right hon. Baronet through the matter of his speech; a great deal, perhaps, I shall have occasion to make use of at another opportunity. If the House shall refuse to do justice to Ireland, I can assure the right hon. Baronet, that he has this night furnished me with an additional number of powerful arguments for the Repeal of the Union. As to that part of the right hon. Baronet's speech, in which he entered upon the task of reading the evidence of those two most disinterested and impartial witnesses, Mr. Carroll and Mr. Singleton, I shall pay very little attention to that at present. But I must take occasion to call the attention of the House and of the right, hon. Baronet particularly to a mistake which he has fallen into as to my
 66 no. "He did." The Morning Chronicle, 67 Hon. Member: The Carlow Centinel, 68 s. s. s. 69 Abandon'd in their utmost need, By those their former bounty fed. 70 Peel Hardinge: 71 72 73 Hear, hear, from Mr. Emerson Tennent. l. l. l. l. 74 75 76 77 78 The Morning Herald. 79 80 The Mirror of Parliament or The Times The Morning Post, The Morning Chronicle, The Morning Herald, The Morning Chronicle 81 82 83
 Lord Stanley  said, that although he was well acquainted with the power and influence which were exercised by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, in that part of the empire with which he had most immediate connexion, he could not but hesitate on the simple assurance now given, authorised, though it was stated to be, by the people of Ireland, to enter into a compact with him as their plenipotentiary, before some security was given for the due performance of the conditions, and before even it was shown that the hon. and learned Member was, as he represented himself, really invested with the full power to make it. "Authorised by the people of Ireland, I come here," exclaimed the hon. and learned Gentleman in his most grandiloquent, but certainly not very argumentative speech, "I come here, authorised by the people of Ireland, to tell you, the British House of Commons, that we are willing to forget past injuries, and to concert with you the conditions of future unity; but if our conditions are not acceded to, I am then instructed to tell you that again the banner of Repeal shall float upon the breeze until victory shall crown it with the laurels of triumph." Such in terms had been the threat of Ireland's authorised plenipotentiary—such in terms was the alternative which, in his capacity of authorised representative of Irish agitation, the hon. and learned Member proposed. And where, he begged to ask, was this boasted authorisation given? At a dinner in Tuam—a supper in the King's County—or at a meeting held in a room in Dublin? And was the House of Commons to be gravely told that on these specific occasions the people of Ireland had given their plenipotentiary such an authority to act for them
 84 85 86 87 l. l. l. l. 88 l. "No, no" l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 89 l. l. 90 et cetera 91 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 92 93 94 Sheil: Carlow Sentinel. 95 96 —"I cannot blame his cousin king. That wish'd him on the barren mountains starv'd. But shall it be, that you,—that set the Crown Upon the head of this forgetful man, And, for his sake, wear the detested blot Of murd'rous subornation,—shall it be, That you a world of curses undergo. Being the agents, or base second means, The cords, the ladder, or the hangman rather?— O, pardon roe, that I descend so low, To show the line, and the predicament. Wherein you range under this subtle king— Shall it, for shame, be spoken in these days. Or fill up chronicles in times to come, That men of your nobility and power, Did' gage them both in an unjust behalf,— As both of you, God pardon it! have done,— To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose. And plant this thorn, this canker, Bolingbroke? And shall it, in more shame, be further spoken. That you are fool'd, discarded, and shook off By him, for whom these shames ye underwent? No; yet time serves, wherein you may redeem Your banish'd honours, and restore yourselves Into the good thoughts of the world again: Revenge the jeering, and disdain'd contempt, Of this proud king, who studies, day and night, To answer all the debt he owes to you, Even with the bloody payment of your deaths." 97
 Lord John Russell  said, that although he was bound to believe that the opinions expressed by the other side of the House were consistent with those which they formerly entertained, he nevertheless found himself in a very singular position. In former times, the doctrine maintained by those who now sat on the other side of the House was, that it was incumbent to reform, not to destroy; to repair, not to pull down; and that every endeavour should be studiously made to bring back our institutions to their original state.—Those were doctrines which he himself entertained. Wonderful to say, however, he now found that the opinions which had prevailed in the reform of Parliament, in the reform of the Church of Ireland, in the reform of the Municipal Corporations of England and Scotland, were opposed by those who styled themselves "Conservatives." They were the persons who now came forward to declare that the existing institutions should be destroyed; for that there was no term of opprobrium too powerful, no sentence of extinction too severe, to inflict upon them. Now, he must say, that those who thus maintained a position so different from that which they had hitherto always upheld, had no right to call on those whom they opposed to prove the course they had adopted was the right course. It was for them to show that there was something so peculiarly evil in the Municipal Corporations of Ireland, that those ancient institutions ought to be wholly abandoned. He would quote to the House the sentiments of Mr. Burke, who, in speaking of the French Revolution, had emphatically warned statesmen against the evils of wantonly sweeping away the forms of ancient institutions, were it not. so late; but, as it was, he must content himself with adverting to a few principal points. He would compare, as shortly as he was able, the plan proposed by his Majesty's Ministers, and the plan which it was proposed to substitute. In doing so, he did not feel called upon to defend the general principle of the Bill, which was the same as that of last year.
 98 99 100 101 102
 Mr. Barron  thought, that the hon. Member, who had just sat down, had made a most excellent speech in favour of the principle of the present Bill, which, according to the hon. Member's statement, appeared to be already in operation in his own town of Belfast. But after the hon. Member had made his speech in favour of the Bill, he ended by declaring that he should vote against it. The hon. Member could not have read the Bill very attentively, or he would not have indulged in more than one misstatement. The hon. Member had allowed it to be inferred that under this Bill the Magistrates would be appointed by the town-councils. He (Mr. Barron) begged to inform the House that this was not the case, but that the appointment of Magistrates was taken by it from the close Corporations, and given to the Crown. In this respect the Irish differed from the English Bill as originally passed last year. The hon. Gentleman had also said, that the control of the Courts of justice would be vested in the new Corporations. This was also in contradiction to the provisions of the Bill. The hon. Gentleman found fault with the Bill because, forsooth, the Corporations were to continue to be called by the same name. But if he had such a hatred, a hatred be it remembered, that was new-born in the hon. Gentleman and his friends on the opposite side of the House, to these civic monopolies, why not substitute for Corporation some other word which would be more congenial to his and their notions of propriety? So shocking did the very name "Corporation" appear to be to the hon. Gentlemen opposite, that they could not even bear the sound. For his part he would, with all his heart, say do away with it altogether; but he could not at the same time help exclaiming, with respect to their conduct on the present occasion, "Oh, the offence is rank." Why, was it not evident that the hon. Gentleman argued more against the use of the word
 37 38 Morning Post, 39 * * 40 * * 41
 Mr. Gaily Knight , having listened attentively to what had been advanced in the debate, was obliged to confess that no explanation had been offered which had succeeded in relieving the plan proposed by his Majesty's Ministers from its great and radical defect—namely, that it perpetuated the principle of exclusion. On this account, entirely concurring in the propriety of carrying the sentence into effect, which had been pronounced against the Irish Corporations, he felt it an absolute duty to support the amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire. He thought its adoption would be most conducive to the peace and welfare of Ireland. "What," it was
 14 15 16
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  had observed, that whilst all the speakers who had taken a part in the debate on either side of the House had been unanimous in their condemnation of the abuses incident to the present Corporations in Ireland, and anxious for their abolition, not a single individual had as yet undertaken to show that the system by which it was proposed to replace them was the best that could be adopted for that purpose, and the one best suited to the wants and necessities of the cities and towns of Ireland. All parties had concurred in their condemnation of the old system; but he had not as yet heard any arguments on the absolute necessity or expediency of adopting the new one. The measure of the right hon. Gentleman, the Attorney-General for Ireland, was unquestionably calculated to effect a vast alteration in the existing system—nay, further, were it indispensable to continue Corporations at all, it was, in his opinion, in many particulars, a material improvement upon them. But the question which now agitated the country was not confined to so narrow a compass; it was not restricted to a mere inquiry into what extent of improvement the old Corporations were susceptible of; the broad important
 25 26 hear! hear.! 27 28 29 l. 30 l. l. 31 "Whilst the town of Belfast was in its infancy, and in a great measure dependent upon the protection of the 'Lords of the Castle,' the Corporation appears to have exercised the municipal power conferred upon them by Charter, efficiently, and with a view to the general welfare of the inhabitants or commonalty, represented, as the latter then were, by their Grand Jury in the Corporate assemblies. When the town and its commerce first became of sufficient importance to make them the object of legislative enactment, the Corporation was selected by the Legislature as the guardian of the interests of the wealth and population, and it continued for many years to exercise the uncontrolled management over its police and commercial regulations; but as the town increased, we find the Legislature apparently treating the Corporation as a body unsuited, from its constitution, to discharge, with efficiency and satisfaction, the important trust which had been confided to its care; and that, accordingly Local Statutes have been enacted at different periods, by which the management and control over municipal interests, have in a great measure been withdrawn from the Corporation, and vested in Local Boards, the majority of whose members are elected by the inhabitants, under the various regulations of these Statutes. Under these circumstances, we found that the Corporation had ceased to be an object of interest to the inhabitants; its natural functions had been superseded by the establishment of the Local Boards, and its monopoly of the election franchise by the Reform Act." 32 l., 33 34 35 l. l. 36
 Mr. Hume  rose to order. The hon. Gentleman charged a Member of that House with belonging to a Ribbon Society. He submitted, that the hon. Gentleman was not entitled to make an accusation, disgraceful in itself, against another hon. Member, without naming the party to whom he alluded.
 Sir James Graham  reminded the hon. Member that he had omitted to read a paragraph of the evidence referring to the employment by this individual of a great majority of Roman Catholics.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the present was a question on which he could not reconcile it to his conscience to give a silent vote. He therefore rose at the present hour to take a share in the debate, as he was afraid that he could not entitle himself to a hearing if he were to defer his observations to a later period of the evening. He considered the subject matter of this debate as one of great importance; for, though it appeared to be greatly narrowed since it was first introduced to the notice of the House, though several points of no inconsiderable moment had been conceded on the other side, he could not help suspecting that, when they came frankly and honestly to declare their opinions, it would turn out that under the surface there lurked a principle connected with the present state and future government of Ireland which constituted the chief barrier between the two great parties into which this country was now divided. It was on that ground that he was particularly anxious to express the opinions which he had formed on mature and deliberate reflection. Before he proceeded to express those opinions, he would take the liberty of adverting to the observations with which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had commenced his speech. The hon. Member had commented on something which had fallen
 44 45 "The great importance of the duties intrusted to Sheriffs, in relation to the administration of justice, and the extent of interests involved in their due exercise, especially in the metropolis, almost demonstrate that such corporate bodies as we have described, limited in numbers, sectarian, exclusive, and often intolerant in opinions, ought not to have the appointment of officers intrusted with these duties. Confidence and faith in the impartiality of the officers and ministers of the laws are necessary, as well to insure due respect for the tribunals by which they are administered, as to protect the laws themselves from suspicion and contempt. That such confidence is not generally placed in the conduct of Corporate Sheriffs in Ireland, in reference to the selection of Juries on political occasions, is matter of notoriety." "Whether a better system may not be adopted by the removal of the prominent
 46 47  telum imbelle sine ictu.  fortiori, 48 The hon. Member for Dublin here yawned aloud. l. l. l. 49 l., l. l. l. l. 50 51 52 l. l. l. 53 54 * * 55 * * 56 57 58 O'Connell: "Do you conceive that this influence of the Catholic priesthood in election matters, would continue in its present state if the question of emancipation were carried?" "I am convinced it would be totally at an end, by carrying the question of Emancipation; the causes which gave it efficacy at this mo-
 59 "Does your mind suggest any other cause which could survive the carrying the Catholic question, that could give to the Catholic priesthood the power of influencing the electors?—No." "Have not cases occurred recently, in elections for counties, in which the influence of the priest has been very greatly exerted?—No doubt about it; but the influence of the priest in elections arises from the question of Roman Catholic Emancipation and none other. It is in reference to that question that it is exclusively exercised. If a priest came forward at an election, and directed the people not to vote for any man who would not support Parliamentary Reform, the people would not listen to him; but when he tells them not to vote for any man but who will support the Catholic claims, he makes an appeal which, in my opinion, is justified by reason and sound sense; he could not, I think, produce any impression on the lower orders, except on some subject immediately involving a religious question, and not collaterally connected with it." "Upon the whole, has their conduct, according to your view, tended more to promote or lead to the disturbance of the peace of the county, upon a fair view of their conduct?—I think their conduct generally has tended to
 60 "How long since you have observed that in your neighbourhood?—It existed to some degree when I first came into the country. "Has it increased very much of late?—Very much. "Within what time?—I should say since Catholic Emancipation was granted. "Do you think that since then the priests have taken a more active part in politics than they had done before?—Decidedly. "Do you think that has led to the increase of the excitement you have observed?—Certainly." "I will tell you what it is, boys, the tottering fabrics of the heretics are falling about their ears, whilst the Catholic religion is rising in glory every day. Ireland was once Catholic Ireland, boys; it will, and it shall, be Catholic Ireland." Henry Grattan: 61 "Did you see also the priests at the Assizes coming into the courts, and making themselves there very active, and at Petty Sessions equally so?—I have seen them at every assize and at every Quarter Sessions, and every Petty Sessions, and always attending when there is any trial of a political nature going on. "So that the interference of the priests is shown not only in canvassing, not only in making speeches on the hustings, not only at the altar, not only at the registry, but also in courts of justice, where they are equally busy?—They are equally busy in all the ramifications of society, so far as I have seen myself, and I have witnessed as much as any man in the county of Carlow; even the professional is not sacred from invasion when it suits their purposes." "Are you aware whether many of the Catholic clergy are in the habit of raising contributions for the purpose of elections, or for paying the expenses of individuals, who, in consequence of their acts at the elections, are liable to penalties for infringing the law?—I am aware of that, and I will state what I know on the subject. I have been told by several farmers who complained to me of the great grievance of being obliged to pay rent, and all taxations, direct and indirect, that they 6hould have another tax to pay for contested elections; and they complained to me bitterly that the clergy used to read their names out from the altar, attaching sometimes 2d. an acre, 3d. an acre, or 4d. an acre, on each man, which he should pay. On one occasion, Cummins refused paying that lax so affixed to him; and for daring to refuse compliance with the priest's mandate, his name was read out from the altar." "Could the voters have been brought up unless they were escorted by military?—No,
 62 "So that in general they were escorted by night?—Yes; previous to the first day's polling a number of voters assembled at the house of Mr.—, of—, a Magistrate of the county, for protection; and from his house I myself removed them under the escort of the military by night. "From what you have seen of England and the north of Ireland, and have read of other countries, do you conceive that such a state of society exists in any other part of the world?—No, nor would it be there, except for the deep organization and confederacy of the people." 63 64 ultima ratio 65
 Sir Robert Peel  rose and said—Before I address myself to the speech of the noble Lord who has just sat down, I beg to be permitted to offer some remarks in reply to the observations of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin, who left the House on the conclusion of his speech, and has just now returned. And I would beg leave to assure the House that I have no wish to provoke a contest with the hon. and learned Gentleman in the course I shall pursue. I can promise the House that I shall not be tempted to indulge in any of that offensive vituperation which in his attacks upon me (even while absent) the hon. Member has so liberally meted out. I never felt annoyed at these displays, and, therefore, have really no sufficient provocation to retaliate. He has said to-night that I misrepresented a speech of his (on the last night I had an opportunity of addressing the House on this subject) in my quotation of a particular passage which I then read, and
 103 Mirror of Parliament. ipsissima verba Mirror Mirror: 104 105 prima facie 106 107 108 —"Facics non"  duabus 109 110 John Russell: 111 112 113 ad interim 114 115 116 "Hear, hear" 117 118 119 nuclei
 Mr. Clay  said, the noble Lord who had opened the debate had, in a moderate and temperate speech, fairly addressed the merits of the question, and had carefully avoided all irritating topics, and all personal allusions, which could only waste the time of the House, and prevent its arriving at sound conclusions in legislating with respect to Ireland. The same course had unhappily not been followed by the right hon. and gallant Officer (Sir H. Hardinge), who had endeavoured to turn a debate upon such an important subject into a discussion upon the character of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Dublin. He (Mr. Clay) should have thought the gallant Officer would have been ashamed to condescend to such a course. These attacks upon the character of that hon. and learned Gentleman were so frequent, that it was very clear that in the cases of a certain number these attacks in no respect injured the hon. and learned Member, and as to persons out of the House, the attacks were even more futile, as had been clearly evidenced in the high respect and consideration with which the hon. and learned Member had been everywhere received throughout the country, and most triumphantly so by a very large meeting held in the heart of London only the preceding day. He could imagine nothing more discreditable to that House than the eternal references in every Irish question to the hon. and learned Member for Dub-
 42 43
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that he had been a Member of the Committee, and thought that in carrying the alterations to the extent which had been done a great irregularity had been committed. He thought it was establishing a bad precedent to recognize such a practice, and therefore the House was much indebted to the hon. Member for Tynemouth for drawing' its attention to the matter. It had
 153
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  concurred in thinking it desirable the motion should be withdrawn. If, however, it went to a division, he must vote for it, because, if a material alteration had (as was stated by a member of the Committee) been made, it was only just and right that the evidence should be printed in the manner proposed, in order to come to a fair conclusion as to how far it could be answered or varied by cross-examination. If, however, he thought the motion conveyed the slightest censure on the hon. Member for Bridport for having improperly altered his evidence, he would not support it. The hon. Member for Tynemouth had himself acquitted the hon. Member for Bridport of any such intention, and the object of the motion was merely to prove the correctness of the evidence as now printed, and thereby to guide the House on the discussion of the existing timber duties. The
 154
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that they would do little justice to this most important subject if they were to enter into any discussion of it on that occasion. It was a subject far too important as regarded the highest interests of the country, and the Protestant religion, to be dealt with until they had the whole of the details of the plan before them, and could consider in what way they could best work out the great object of the Commission, which had in view the extension of religious instruction, either entirely or partially, throughout every district of the country. With this feeling he should have avoided addressing the House at the present moment, if it had not been that he was one of those who had advised the issuing of this Commission, and that
 164
 Doctor Lushington  expressed the satisfaction which he felt at hearing such a plan as that which these Commissioners had recommended. So far from taking any exceptions to that plan, he was bound to say, that it exceeded any expectation which he had formed on the subject, and all he hoped was, that the scruples of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, should not disturb the unanimity which prevailed respecting the reform in the Church now proposed. Of the leading principles of this plan they must all approve, because every sixpence of the ecclesiastical reve-
 165 166 1. 167
 Mr. Heathcote  was opposed to the reduction of the duty on licences granted to the proprietors of large spirit establishments; but there were other classes—he meant those who kept inns on the road side, and in rural districts, where relief was required. He was most happy to hear the hopes expressed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of being able to propose a reduction of taxation, and afford relief in some quarters. He was an advocate for keeping an additional duty on large
 176
 Mr. Miles  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have held out some hope of a reduction of these duties. He was convinced that this tax did not fall upon the consumer. It was a great tax on rental at a time when there was a difficulty in paying rental. The tax in question could not be charged to the consumer, from the impracticability of an additional price being put on spirits. He was of opinion a tax upon the real consumption of spirits in the houses should be substituted, and that that tax should be in proportion to the amount of consumption. Such a tax would reach the gin palaces, that were the places of the greatest demoralization.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  supported the motion. He asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer when it was they were to expect the Budget?
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he was far from wishing to interrupt the course of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he was not factious, but was determined to give
 178
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, this tax fell on a particular class, who paid without it their due share of the general taxation. He should support the motion.
 Sir William Follelt  said, he perfectly agreed that it was in general more convenient not to propose a discussion on a particular tax till the Chancellor of the Exchequer made his financial statement; but he was afraid that was not the object of the postponement now proposed. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave a hope that when he should make his statement he would propose to repeal the lax, then he would ask his hon. Colleague to withdraw his motion; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer said he could give no relief. Another reason for pressing the repeal of the duty was, that they were told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in 1834, that this duty would not fall on the retailer; it was now found that it did fall on the retailer, and as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a surplus, and could give relief, he hoped his hon. Colleague would press the question to a division.
 Mr. Lefroy  felt assured the Bill could not advance a step beyond the first stage; and with a view of saving the time of the House, he would oppose even its introduction. Should leave be given to bring it in, he confidently expected that the Attorney-General for England, and the Lord Advocate of Scotland, would feel themselves called upon to resist its farther progress.
 Colonel Conolly  thought, that as this
 188
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was the custom to wait until the close of the financial year, and till Government could take a general view of the taxation and propose reductions suitable to the general welfare; and if the Government failed to act for the best, then the different Members might bring forward plans of their own. If every Gentleman brought forward particular propositions, and they were agreed to, the consequence would be, that they would be more likely to consult particular interests than the general interests of the country. He, therefore, thought they should wait for the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when they would be enabled to judge on a full view of the case. The time was not come when the Chancellor of the Exchequer could make up his mind as to the reductions he could propose to the House, and all he asked was that they should not come to any decision on a particular question till that time, which was not distant, should arrive. He thought it would undoubtedly be a fairer tax if, as had been proposed,
 179
 Lord John Russell  appeared at the Bar with the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. On its being brought up, the noble Lord, in moving that it be printed, stated that, in presenting the second Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the slate of the Church, he thought it proper, in conformity with the course which his noble Friend at the head of the Administration had adopted in the other House, to state shortly the general subject and nature of the Report. It would be in the recollection of the House, that the Commission was appointed, and the Commissioners were named, when the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, was at the head of the Administration. The persons appointed were certain of the Archbishops and Bishops, and other per-
 156 l., l. 157
 Colonel Perceval  regarded the measure as a monstrous interference between landlord and tenant; and should it proceed to a second stage, if, for no other reason than that he might gain over to it the opposition of the representatives of those countries, would move its extension to England and Scotland. His knowledge of the condition of Ireland so fully assured him it was calculated to do much mischief, without producing any counteracting advantage, that he did not hesitate to take upon himself the unpopularity of opposing the measure in  limine.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  thought the present an unfavourable opportunity for pressing the question. It should be brought under the consideration of the Government at a more convenient time than the present.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would tell the House, so far as he was acquainted with the subject, what had occurred. In vindication of himself, particularly after the sort of charge which had been brought against him by the hon. Member for Worcester, with respect to his conduct as Chairman, he must say, that till the hon. Member for Tynemouth mentioned the subject, and he saw the hon. Member's notice on Tuesday, he was utterly ignorant of any alteration being made, and his attention, as Chairman, was never called to it, nor did he ever hear a syllable on the subject. He could most completely confirm every part of the statement made by the hon. Member for Bridport. His hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, when he appeared before the Committee, brought with him papers from which he read certain portions of his evidence, and he referred to other documents, which the hon. Member informed the Committee were not in a state of preparation fit to be laid before them, and that it was necessary
 150 151 152
 Mr. Divett  then rose, pursuant to the notice which he had given, to move for a Committee of the whole House on so much of the Act of 4th and 5th William 4th, cap. 75, as imposed an additional duty of fifty per cent, on Retail Spirit Licences. This Act, as the House would recollect, was introduced by Lord Althorp during the period he filled the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, and nothing could possibly have been more oppressive than this increase of taxation had proved. The House would recollect that the Bill was brought forward at the close of the Session, when the attendance was not very numerous; but still, had hon. Members been in the least degree aware of the injustice which it would inflict on the licensed victuallers they never would have consented to its passing. When he brought forward this subject last year, his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, gave him a promise, that he would afford some relief to those classes. There was a feeling in the country, that upon this point his right hon. Friend had not kept faith with him. However, perhaps
 168 169
 Mr. Divett  could not but consider the motion for further delay a delusion. After the manner in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer met the question, if it were postponed it was floored for the Session. He rejoiced to hear that there was a surplus, and that if the House agreed to his motion, it could not. cause the slightest injury to the finances of the country. One thing was said by the Chancellor of the Exchequer which he thought unworthy of him. He said, that if the motion were agreed to, he would move an amendment to repeal another tax. The Chancellor of the Exchequer knew that he had no wish to embarrass the Government, but he had no hope of the tax being repealed if he agreed to postpone his motion, and thought he should not do his duty if he did not divide the House. He denied that he had brought forward the question for the sake of popularity; he had brought it forward to obtain relief for an industrious class of traders from a partial and oppressive tax.
 Mr. Shaw  would not, as he was conscious of the laudable industry and perseverance which the hon. Member (Mr. S. Crawford) had displayed in regard to this measure, oppose the introduction of such a Bill, however unwilling he was to promise it his support.
 Mr. Robinson  did not know what effect the speech of the hon. Member for Bridport might have had upon the House, but it appeared to him that he had not answered in the slightest degree the allegations of his hon. Friend the Member for Tynemouth. The hon. Member might have been content to meet the charges which had been brought against himself instead of going out of his way to attack others. The hon. Member had said, that a great labour had been imposed upon him by the Committee, and then he asked the House whether he could help delaying the Report. Now, he (Mr. Robinson) denied that either the House or the Committee imposed on him any such labour at all. The hon. Member told the right hon. President of the Board of Trade that he had evidence to give before the Committee; but that evidence was proposed to be given when many of the members of the Committee had left town, and when those who were opposed to the hon. Gentleman's views were not able to produce evidence in controversial of the evidence given by the hon. Member. When they found that a majority was against them in favour of hearing the hon. Member's evidence, they proposed that some one else should be heard on their side; but the Committee would not allow it. The hon. Member for Tynemouth said, that he had no objection to the tables being completed; but what the hon. Member had complained of, and what he (Mr. Robinson) complained of, and what the House had to deal with, was, that alterations had been made in the substance of the evidence. This question might be treated as a party question, but let them, if such alterations were to be made with impunity, look to the effects which they would produce in impugning the integrity of the Report of the Committee. If the House was willing that gentlemen should write treatises and send them for the consideration of the House,
 148
 Mr. Young  said, that he thought he was quite justified, whilst stating that an allegation of unfairness in the decision of the Committee had been publicly made, to attempt to trace its cause to the constitution of the Committee itself. Out of the thirty-two Members who were appointed on that Committee, twenty were pledged by their speeches or avowed opinions to a particular opinion, four were neutral.— He could have wished to have seen more impartiality and fairness on the part of the Committee, as far as the numerical strength of the witnesses examined on both sides of the question was concerned, for there were only twelve persons called before them to speak on behalf of the colonies, whilst no less than eighteen were allowed to give evidence on behalf of the Baltic and Norway timber trade. Many important witnesses, who attended on behalf of the colonial interests, were altogether refused attention by the Committee; and one gentleman, who had come from Ireland, and who was the deputed representative of a large body of timber-merchants in that country, was compelled to return without having undergone examination. After these witnesses had been examined, the hon. Member for Bridport rose up in the Committee and demanded to be heard by them. Now, considering that although each hon. Member who composed the Committee had a right to support the particular views and opinions which he might entertain upon this subject, yet as the hon. Member for Bridport had distinguished himself very much in advocating his own side of the question, and had taken a very active part, as well as shown very strong partialities on behalf of his own views, he had certainly felt himself called upon in
 140 141 142 143 144
 Mr. George F. Young  rose to make his promised Motion upon the subject of evidence given by the hon. Member for Bridport before a Select Committee, upon the subject of the Timber Duties. He assured the House that he had never before risen in his place to address that House under circumstances of such difficulty or with greater reluctance, although, he was happy to say, that his conscience acquitted him of all personal or party motive in making this necessary allusion to an hon. Member's evidence, for whom he entertained much respect. He should obtain, he believed, credit with the hon. Member and with the House for an anxiety on his part to-night to abstain from any observation or expressions of an irritating character on this subject, although it was a matter of direct personal reference to himself. It was not necessary he should now insist upon the importance to this country, in a commercial and political point of view, of the exercise of a due vigilance over the interests of the timber trade. in pursuance of that object a Committee had been granted during the existence of a former Government, with power to examine evidence upon this subject. Constituted as that Committee was, he should have opposed it. The expectations of the well-wishers of the trade had, with him, been disappointed in the persons selected to perform the duties of
 139
 Mr. George F. Young  was at all times ready to bow to the feelings expressed by a majority of the House, but he must complain that he had been placed in a most unfair position, inasmuch as during the conversation which had taken place all the eulogy had been passed upon the hon. Member for Bridport, and all the blame had been attached to him. He had attended the Committee daily, and he repeated that he had never heard a syllable of such instructions to the hon. Member for Bridport as had been to-night stated, except that the hon. Member having said that he had not had time to prepare the tables, was desired to furnish them and attach them to his evidence. This statement had not been refuted, nor could it be. He maintained, that if the evidence were printed as he suggested, it would appear that alterations had been made both as to facts and opinions. He stood aloof from party, and therefore could not look to party for support, but he never would shrink from defending with independence any conclusion to which, after the exercise of his best judgment, he arrived. It was not his intention to prefer any charge against the hon. Member for Bridport, and he should not be indisposed to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Granville Vernon  observed, that the subject of pluralities was one respecting which very great error existed, as the evil was by no means so extensive as was generally supposed. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, and the hon. Member for Middlesex seemed to attribute to the Church a power which did not belong to it. The Church had no power whatever to interfere in the distribution of its revenues, and this he had reason to know from a proposition which a venerable relative of his had made on the subject to the head of a former Government. He, however, was prepared to give his candid attention to the plan recommended by the Commissioners, and to carry out their views as far as he thought they ought to be carried out.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that during the ten years he had had the honour of a seat in Parliament, he had abstained from occupying its attention with anything personal to himself, because he considered the public business of so much more importance than anything that affected him; but after the motion which had been made by the hon. Member for Tynemouth, he could not forbear from stating to the House what his conduct had been on the subject. He did not know that the hon. Member had acted quite fairly in attempting to couple his name with the constitution of the Timber Duties Committee and its appointment by the Government, and by striving to create a prejudice against him in the minds of those Members who were opposed to that Government, by endeavouring to connect his conduct with the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers. He did think that the hon. Gentleman, considering how personal this motion must be, ought religiously to have abstained from creating any prejudice of this kind in the minds of those who had to entertain this question. This was the second attempt the hon. Member had made, to use a vulgar phrase, to burk his evidence. The first attempt was in the Committee. At an early period of the inquiry, he (Mr. Warburton) had informed the Chairman, that he was ready to give evidence before the Committee, and he left the Chairman to fix the time and opportunity for giving it. At the close of the inquiry, it was proposed that he should be examined. To this the hon. Member and his friends objected, contending that the witnesses ought to be examined first, one on one side and then one
 145 146 147
 The Speaker  thought the hon. Member should proceed.
 Dr. Bowring  advised the hon. Member for Exeter to withdraw his motion for the sake of the parties themselves. The request of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was reasonable. As the hon. Member persisted in his motion, he begged leave to move as an amendment, that the subject should be postponed till the 14th of April.
 Mr. Hardy  conceived that the question was not merely a matter between the hon. Member for Tynemouth and the hon. Member for Bridport, but one in which the public was interested and deeply con-
 155
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the Commissioners had done not only themselves but the Church great credit by the manner in which they had executed the inquiry intrusted to them. That inquiry, however, should have been undertaken by the Church itself long ago. The only part of the plan on which he had any observation to make was that which related to pluralities; and no man, he thought, whose object really was to support the Church, could deny that such things should be done away with as speedily as possible. He was anxious they should consider how far retaining heads of colleges and schools with livings was advisable. He thought that it was not, and, as there was a surplus, it would be better, in his opinion, to attach incomes to such offices than to allow the parties to be paid for duties which they did not perform. This, he felt persuaded, would remove half the evils consequent upon the system of pluralities.
 Mr. Hume  was glad that these claims had been brought before the House. He was one who had not thrown objections in the way of imposing of the tax, because the then Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that he had to reduce the House-tax of 1,200,000 l. 177
 Mr. Hume  thought it ought to be generally understood that no alterations of evidence, as delivered, would be permitted by the House. This was necessary to give the effect they ought to have to the reports submitted to the House from select Committees. If the present case stood without excuse, he should have joined in censuring the proceeding as an irregularity which ought not to be permitted, but his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, had only done that which had been requested of him by the Committee. That was admitted, and after licence and authority thus given, and more especially after the explanation afforded to the House by his hon. Friend, it would be very hard that anything like a censure should be passed upon him for executing with so much ability, and after extensive labours, a duty imposed upon him,—labours for which he, for one, thanked his hon. Friend. He hoped the hon. Member for Tynemouth would consent to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Philip Howard , though he considered the claims in question deserving of the greatest consideration, should support the amendment postponing the question until they could take a general view of the finances, and they could be sure they were not relieving one party at the expense of another. He suspected the zeal of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and believed they wanted to embarrass the King's Government.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  thought it should be recollected that the poorer classes of Ireland were much worse used than those of England or Scotland, and that there was considerably more necessity for legislation, as regarded them, in the former than in the latter countries. If with no other view than to bring clearly before the House the relative position of landlord and tenant in Ireland, he would support the introduction of the measure.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in answer to the gallant Officer, said he should bring forward the Budget at the very earliest period after the close of the financial year the state of the notice-book would permit.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the task of opposing this proposition was painful to him, and he begged to add that he believed the hon. Member for Exeter (Mr. Divett) was actuated by no unkind feeling towards the Government in bringing the motion forward. But he entreated the House, before they came to a vote on this subject, that they would do him the favour to listen to the few observations which he had to offer—that they would not come to a decision on the question without listening to the facts. He rejoiced that the country was financially in the position which disabled him from affirming that it would be injurious to public credit to acquiesce in the proposition; he believed, and he derived the greatest pleasure from having it in his power to state the fact, that the revenue would be able to bear this reduction. He, therefore, did not oppose the proposition on financial grounds; but he begged to call the attention of the House to the actual position in which this matter stood, and to the circumstances under which the proposition was brought under the consideration of the House. He had already said, that at the earliest possible period after the close of the financial year in April next, he would bring before the House the actual state of the income and expenditure of the country, and he trusted its condition would be flourishing enough to enable him to propose such modifications and alterations of some of the branches of taxation as appeared to himself and his colleagues, and as would appear also to the House, the best calculated to afford practical relief. The present proposition did not involve the question of a loss to the revenue of 120,000 l 171 Wealth of Nations. l. l. s. l s. l. 172 "Return of the number of retail spirit dealers in England, who have received relief under the Act 5th and 6th William 4th, cap. 39; stating the total amount of such relief, and the number of those relieved under each rate of duty. At 2 l. s. l. s., l. s. l. s., l. s. l s l. s. l. s. d., l. s. l. l. s., 1. s d l. s 1. s 1. s. 173 
 
 Number relieved. Amount of relief. 
 England Country 17,382 £.27,972 5 0 
 London 41 200 11 0 
 Total 17,423 28,172 16 0 
 Scotland 1,596 1,983 15 6 
 Ireland 2,616 3,161 0 6 
 United Kingdom  21,635 £33,187 12  0 
 Excise Office, March 10th, 1836. l. 174 175
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  reminded the House that the hon. Member for Bridport had not acted in the proceeding on his own motion, but upon the request and authority of the Committee. As a matter of principle, he was of opinion that evidence ought to be printed as given before a Committee; but when a Committee of its own accord gave instructions to a witness to complete his evidence, which, as in this case, could not be done pending its sitting, then he must say, that animadversion upon such a course was more applicable to the Committee directing it than to any other party. Believing, as he did to the fullest, the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Bridport, supported (if it needed support) by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, and the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Graham), he thought the hon. Member for Bridport had cause to thank the hon. Member for Tynemouth for bringing the matter forward, because otherwise the important labours of the hon. Member would have been unknown. He must further say, that he never knew such an instance of labour and exertion devoted to the public service of the country. Nothing could be more important than the history of the timber trade for the last eighty years, which these labours and exertions had afforded to the House. As to the motion, if carried, it would convey a censure not intended either by the hon. Member for Tynemouth or those who supported him, and he therefore trusted he would take the advice thrown out, and not press the question to a division. If the hon. Member pressed the question he should most cheerfully, and from his heart, vote against it, affirming thereby the proceedings of the Committee, and affirming what was still more valuable and important—namely, that there was not a shadow of imputation against the hon. Member for Bridport; but that, on the contrary, the House had every reason to feel grateful to his hon. Friend for the pains and labour he had devoted to the subject.
 Mr. Ewart  considered the additional duty imposed on spirit licences as a tax bad in principle and bad in character. He had a petition signed by many thousands of his constituents in Liverpool. This petition was signed by many of the most respectable inhabitants, not at all connected with the licensed victuallers; and the petitioners stated very strongly their opinion of the injustice of the additional tax, and he could assure the House their feeling was every day increasing. If his Majesty's Government did not abolish this impost they would have to encounter great hostility. It was only an Act of common justice to a deserving and industrious class if the House agreed to the motion of his hon. Friend, The additional tax on spirit licences was an aggravation of evil on a class already too much oppressed—and he was convinced it could not consistently with sound principles be advocated. Drinking of ardent spirits had not been increased by it. The only means of accomplishing such an object would be to promote education and do all that was possible to improve the morals of the people. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not come forward during the present Session to relieve those who now complained, he would have a much more arduous task to perform next Session.
 170
 Mr. Ewart  rose to order. The selection of such a Committee was not a proper subject for the consideration of the House upon this occasion.
 Mr. Finn  felt strongly that it would be a great blessing to Ireland to excite a better feeling and better understanding between landlord and tenant, and would willingly support any measure tending to effect that object. He owned he apprehended much difficulty attended the question under consideration, but even though he entertained a fear that the proposed measure was not calculated to meet that difficulty, he did not feel justified in opposing its production.
 Mr. Gillon  was of opinion that the parties should have no licences to pay for a fair, honest, and respectable calling. He could not understand, but he saw it with regret, why there was such a willingness to lay duty on spirits, the luxury of the poor man. As to intemperance, it was only the spread of knowledge that could put it down. There should be a reduction of these duties. However, under the circumstances, he was one who thought it would be wise to postpone the motion for the present.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  thought it at all events the duty of the House to receive the Bill, even though, at a subsequent stage, it might be thought necessary to reject or alter it.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  rose, to move for leave to bring in his Bill for the Amendment of the Law of Landlord and Tenant in Ireland, The hon. Member presented Petitions from several places in favour of the proposed measure. He had other Petitions, he said, which he should present on a future day. He was at a loss to know how he should proceed in submitting this Question to the consideration of the House at that late hour. He felt he should not do justice to the cause without stating the grounds on which he demanded their assent to the measure he proposed, He felt he could not ask the sanction of the House, with propriety, to that measure, without bringing before them the condition of the Irish peasantry, which rendered such a measure necessary; but, at the same time, he did not wonder the House should be reluctant to hear any lengthened details at that late hour. He would, therefore, submit to their pleasure, whether he should proceed or not. He stood before them to call the attention of the House to a subject to which it had not before been specially directed. He pleaded the cause of the wretched and starving rack-renters of Ireland—of the occupiers and cultivators of the soil, spread over a great portion of the area of that country. He would not detain the House at that hour by a detailed description of their condition—he would merely glance at it. If those circumstances were viewed which denote the condition of any peasantry, their wretchedness would be easily demonstrated. Look to their habitations, and they would be found unfit for human beings—their lands in the most deficient state of cultivation—exhausted and unproductive, from the want of manure, which it was impossible for them to supply, their poverty not permitting them to keep live stock of any description—their clothing unfit to protect them from the inclemency of the weather—willing to work, at the same time destitute of employment, whilst in the most distressed districts, thousands of acres of land, easily reclaim-able, and of the most productive nature, were lying waste and unproductive. What was the cause of all this misery, he asked? He answered, unhesitatingly, the disorganised state of the relationship between landlord and tenant. When we look to the state of that relationship, what do we
 184 185 d. d. 186 187
 Sir James Graham  thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not say that he would give no relief, but that if he found he could substitute a duty on quantity he would be glad to do so. He understood him to say that he was disposed to consider the question with a view to that institution. But these were not the grounds on which his vote should be given. It was said there would be a surplus revenue, but he wished to see that authenticated by a balance sheet; and he perfectly agreed with the noble Lord opposite, that if before that statement was made the House should decide on the reduction of a particular tax, he was afraid that a majority would take off tax after tax till the whole system was broken down, He never felt it to be more his
 180
 Sir James Graham  said, that having been referred to by the hon. Member for Bridport, he would state the facts of the case as far as they were known to him, for before the evidence closed he had left London. He could state, if any statement of his was necessary in confirmation of what had been said by the hon. Member for Bridport, whose honour had been un-impeached during the ten years he had known him a Member of that House, what took place with regard to that portion of the suggestion made by him with respect to the tables. The hon. Member for Bridport having made known to the Committee that he was in possession of details, resting on authentic documents, of the state of the timber trade for the last eighty years, he was asked to communicate them, but he said that they would be comparatively useless except in a tabular form, and to prepare tables at that period of the session was impossible. It was then suggested by himself and the noble Lord the Member for Westmoreland, that as the
 149
 The Attorney-General  observed, that when the Bill was brought in he would give it his best consideration, and should he then find it a good measure, he certainly should have no hesitation in proposing its extension to England or Scotland.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that, however much he respected and admired some of the members of the Commission, the Report of which the noble Lord had just brought up—however highly he esteemed the right rev. Prelates who had signed that Report—he could not conceal from the House the deep regret which he felt at hearing such a plan proposed for adoption as that which the noble Lord just announced. For his part, he was bound to say, that he would not be a party to the reception of a Report, the tendency of which he believed in his conscience would be fatal to the best interests of the Church of which he was a member. He certainly should not differ from the noble Lord with respect to the appropriation of the surplus which this Report proposed; but he must deny the right—taking that word in its largest sense, but without questioning the legal power—of Parliament to deprive one class of the Clergy of any portion of their revenues for the purpose of distributing it among another. At all events, he should be no party to any such arrangement. If he understood the noble Lord rightly, it was intended that the incomes of the present occupants of existing sees, livings, and prebends, should not be disturbed; and, before he proceeded further, he wished to ask the noble Lord whether he was correct—whether this plan meant to protect the rights of the existing sees, livings, and prebends? [Lord  John Russell John Russell: 163
 Lord Morpeth  observed, that the gallant Officer was in error in supposing that the Bill of his hon. Friend had been thrown out last Session. His hon. Friend obtained leave to bring it in, but did not press the measure. He agreed with his hon. Friend in the principle of a measure for placing the landlord and tenant in Ireland on a more just footing; but he also agreed with the gallant Officer that there was much difficulty in the application of a remedy to the evil complained of.— However, as his hon. Friend had last year obtained leave to bring in a Bill on this subject, he was quite willing that the House should now have an opportunity both of discussing the principle of such a measure, and of considering the alterations which his hon. Friend proposed making in the provisions of the Bill of last Session.
 Viscount Sandon  could not view the additional duty on spirit licences as a tax on the consumers, but as a direct tax on the dealer. If the tax was on ardent spirits, he would not oppose its continuance; but as he did not think it was, he should support the motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not think the incorporation should be acceded to unless it should be found useful, and if it was so he did not see why the Bill should be resisted. Two English companies were established, the first in 1813, called the British and Colonial, and another, the General Steam Company of London, in 1834. But the present company was an Irish one, which perhaps might be the ground of objection. The reason why this Act of incorporation was rendered necessary was to protect the individuals composing it from penalties that might arise under the Anonymous Partnership Act. It was very well known that in a short time Government would give up having packets of their own, because this company could carry the mails for one-half of the expense. Many Members of Parliament, himself among the rest, were members of this Company, every one of whom would forfeit a very large sum of money, besides their seat in that House, if this Company contracted with the Government for carrying the mails. The Company were ready to give up the clauses relative to carriage by land. Those points were for the Committee,
 Mr. Wallace  should vote against the second reading of the Bill. It was upon the principle no monopoly ought to be sanctioned by the House that he opposed the second reading. There was at present a small private company on the Clyde, whose vessels were going at the rate of twelve miles an hour to and from Liverpool, and they wanted no Act of incorporation to enable them to do this, which he believed was unprecedented.
 Viscount Howick  said, that in moving the Estimates for the army services for the present year, he felt it necessary for him to detain the House but a very short time, while he stated what propositions he had to make for the support of the force which the Government considered necessary to be kept on foot. The Estimates were precisely the same as those submitted to the House last year, and the amount of expense to be incurred was unaltered. When he said this, he must mention what some hon. Members were aware of, that three companies of mounted riflemen, and two provisional battalions of infantry, had been raised, for the temporary service of his Majesty at the Gape of Good Hope, and the charge for these troops was not included, since under the circumstances, he had considered it better, instead of adding the charge for the maintenance of this force to the regular Estimates of the year, the force being raised for a temporary purpose, to make a supplimentary Estimate for that charge. He did not think it necessary to make any statement at that moment explanatory of the reasons which had induced his Majes-
 211 l. l. l. 212 l. l. l. l. l. l. 213 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down had taken it for granted, that whatever had been voted last year was to be voted on the present occasion, without any information being afforded as to the necessity of the maintenance of so large a military establishment as had been proposed. He regretted to see so little interest manifested by hon. Members (as was shown by the present state of the House) when they were called on to vote away the public money. He contended, that one of the principal vices of the Government of this country was the extent of its military establishment, by which a military spirit, not existing during the war, was encouraged, and everything was now done by a military force, instead of relying upon the civil power, which ought to be the ease in times of peace. He wanted to know upon what grounds a liberal Government should keep up a military establishment, exceeding by 10,000 or 12,000 men, that maintained by extravagant Tory Governments. He had looked to former Estimates, and he found the following to be the state of the military force during the existence of Tory admi-
 214 215
 Sir Stratford Canning  thought the reduction proposed would not be consistent with the efficiency of the public service. His object, however, in rising, was to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, to a subject of great importance. He had intended to take that opportunity of entering into some statements with regard to our foreign relations, but as he understood that it would be more convenient to bring the subject forward at some future opportunity, he gave notice that he would, on the first day that the House went into a Committee of Supply, call the attention of the House to the subject.
 Captain Boldero  could not agree with the hon. Member for Middlesex to vote for a reduction of the army. If ever some increase of the military force was necessary it was at the present time. Look at the state of Russia. Look at France, with an army of 360,000 men. If the hon. Member had proposed to reduce the expenditure instead of the men, he would have agreed with him, because the expenditure for the colonies was extremely heavy, and many of the colonies were able to contribute to the support of the troops. He would begin with Gibraltar, which, as the population was small, could not contribute much; but the place was impregnable, and he, therefore, could see no necessity for keeping a force there which cost us from 120,000 l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. 216 l. l.
 Colonel Perceval  must contradict the statement of the hon. Member for Middle sex, that Ireland was in a tranquil state. He distinctly denied it. On the very same night, on which it was stated by a noble Lord in another place, that Ireland was tranquil, there were on the county of Tipperary calendar fifty-nine cases of murder fifteen of firing at with intent to murder, together with the usual proportion of riots, robberies, rapes, and burglaries. This county was said, however, to be remark able for tranquillity. Recently, however, it was proposed by some individuals that a meeting should be convened for the purpose of addressing the Lord Lieutenant. The gentlemen of the county did not think it worth while to notice it, and when asked the reason, requested that those who wished to congratulate the Lord Lieutenant on the peace of the county, would attend the petty sessions, and they would see that the state of things was very different. In fact, Ireland was never in so disturbed a state since 1798 as it was now. Let any person go through the Queen's County, the King's County, and the county of Carlow, and he would see how groundless was the assertion of the Member for Middlesex.
 Captain Dunlop  did not think circum stances would admit of the proposed reduction. Formerly English regiments were left in the colonies for ten years.— Now the term of service there was only five. The Committee which sat upon the subject of the colonies did not recommend a reduction of men, but of the term of service. The regiments serving in the East Indies were not relieved for twenty years. For these reasons alone he should think it unadvisable to make any reduction.
 Major Beauclerk  agreed with the right hon. Member for Middlesex, that there ought to be reduction in the military force, but thought that the reduction might more advantageously be made in the cavalry than in the infantry.
 Sir Charles Dalbiac  was glad to find that the hon. Member for Middlesex had
 218 l.
 Viscount Howick  observed, that the hon. Member for Middlesex had charged the Government with showing no reasons for not reducing the army, but the hon. Member himself had shown no reasons for the reduction, or, at all events, the only reason he did show was of a most extraordinary character, namely, that we should reduce the army because we had increased the navy. With respect to some of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member, he wished to say one word for himself. He had sat with the hon. Member on that side as well as on the other side of the House, and he doubted much, if the hon. Member could find his name in any one division that ever took place for the reduction of the army, because he had felt satisfied that the severity of the colonial service was so great that it was actually impossible to reduce the army. In all the colonies in the year 1792, a year the hon. Member was so fond of referring to, the number of our rank and file was 15,100; at present they amounted to 16,687; being an apparent increase of 1,600. At that period, in New South Wales, the number of soldiers was 420, while now there was 1,970. The occupied portion of New South Wales was as large as Ireland, and, filled, as it were, with the most desperate characters from this country, it absolutely was necessary to enlarge the forces to their present amount. If they were to expect any reduction in the army, it was in the colonies that reduction was to take place; and when hereafter alterations should take place in the Cape of Good Hope, and when the Bill of last Session for the Abolition of Slavery in the West Indies shall have been carried into full effect, then indeed a diminution might be found practicable. The proportion of our home to our colonial forces was 62 men at home to every 100 abroad.
 Mr. Hume  said, that his reason for pro posing the reduction, consisted in the fact, that we were now employing a large police force for the maintenance of peace in
 219
 Sir William Molesworth  was sorry that the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, had not been acceded to; for then he should have contented himself with moving, that the Foot-guards should be the 5,000 men to be disbanded. He considered those regiments to be a great abuse on account of the privileges which
 220 221 222 223 l. l. 224 225 l. l. l. l. l. "From the moment at which the officer enters his Majesty's service, till he attains the rank of general officer, he must be prepared to serve in all climates, in all seasons, in all situations, and under every possible difficulty and disadvantage. There is no peace or repose for him, excepting that some powerful party in the state should think that his services can be dispensed with, in which case he will be put on half-pay. While thus serving, he must per form all the duties required of him. He must be, in turn, gaoler, police-officer, magistrate, judge, and jury. Whether in peace or in war, in the transport, in the charge of convicts, or acting as a magistrate, or sitting in judgment,
 226 227 l. s. d. l. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  supported the amendment, and said, that the time had arrived when promotions should be regulated by merit, and not by influence. He knew that the distinction existing between the officers of the Guards and those of the Line, on the subject of rank, was a source of great irritation to the latter.
 Major Beauclerk , as an infantry officer was able, from his own personal know ledge, to state that, although the officers of the Line were too proud and high minded to complain, they vet were far from pleased or satisfied with the distinction made between them and the officers of the Guards. He did not think that such favouritism should exist; and, knowing the irritation and jealousy which the privileges enjoyed by the officers of the Guards occasioned, he most cordially sup ported the proposition of the hon. Baronet.
 Sir Harry Verney  said, that although he had never seen any active service, he was an officer in the Line. He begged to deny that any such irritation or jealousy existed in the minds of the officers of that branch of the army on this subject as the hon. and gallant Member for Surrey had stated. It was also quite clear to any man at all acquainted with the sentiments of the officers of the Line, that the hon. Baronet who brought forward the amendment advanced statements which were not borne out by the facts. Was he not aware that the expense of the officers of the Guards was much smaller to the country than that of the officers of the Line? He did not believe that the officers of the line viewed the privileges of the officers of the Guards with any dissatisfaction whatever.
 Lord Arthur Lennox  must also dissent from the testimony given by the hon. Baronet near him, and the hon. and gallant officer the Member for Surrey. He was an officer of the line, and had served in that capacity in various parts of the world, for thirteen years; and this was the
 228
 Viscount Howick  said, that he had heard, with great satisfaction, the observations which had fallen from the noble Lord who had just addressed the House; because in his (Lord Howick's) view of the question, the important point was the assumption of the hon. Baronet the Member for East Cornwall, that the officers of the British line did feel themselves aggrieved and injured by the privileges which were enjoyed by the officers of the Guards. If, indeed, such feelings had existed, and if there were grounds for the existence of such feelings on the minds of the officers of the Line, it would have been to him (Lord Howick) a subject to be deeply lamented. He was, therefore, delighted to hear from an officer of the line, a positive contradiction to the assertion of the hon. Baronet, and that such feelings were not entertained by that branch of the service to which he belonged. Then, with regard to the observation of the hon. Baronet, as to rank, the hon. Baronet had alluded to the short period within which officers of the Guards could obtain the rank of field officers; and he thought that the Committee would sup pose, from what had fallen from that hon. Baronet, that it was the usual practice and course of things, that officers of the guards could obtain the rank of lieutenant colonel at a very early age indeed. Now, he (Lord Howick) had required that morning an account to be made out of the number of officers serving in the Guards as captains, and who held rank as lieutenant-colonels in the army. The result was as follows: in the Grenadier-guards there were twenty-six captains, with the rank of lieutenant-colonels in the army; in the Coldstream, sixteen; and in the third regiment, sixteen also; making in the whole fifty-eight captains of the Guards who held the rank of lieutenant-colonel, exclusive of those who did the regimental duty as lieutenant-colonels. Now, what did the Committee think was the average period of service of these officers before they attained the rank of lieutenant-colonel? Why, instead of their having served ten or a dozen years, as
 229
 Sir William Molesworth : What he had stated was, that the mortality among the officers of the Line, in proportion to their entire number, compared with that of the officers of the Guards, was as three to one.
 Viscount Howick  said, that was precisely what he had stated. He was not, on a short notice, able to go into minute details, but from a calculation made by his noble Friend, when be was Paymaster of the Forces, it was ascertained that the mortality and sickness prevailing amongst the household troops was fully as great as amongst the troops of the Line. That being the case with respect to the men, he could not doubt that it was equally so with respect to the officers; and he was sure that there must be on that point some great mistake in the statement of the hon. Baronet. It occurred to him that what the hon. Baronet might have meant was, that from the officers of the Guards not persevering in the service, and from the frequent changes that occurred, the mortality on that account might not per haps be so great. The hon. Baronet had slated, that when officers of the Guards became general officers, their pay was 400 l. l. 230
 Mr. Leader  said, I rise, Sir, not so much for the purpose of intruding my own opinions on this subject upon the House, as for the purpose of setting right some hon. Members who seem to have misunderstood the statements and intentions of my hon. Friend, the Member for Cornwall. First, the hon. Member for Buckingham seems to imagine that my hon. Friend, the Member for Cornwall, in bringing forward this Motion, has been actuated by the desire to save a few thousand pounds to the country. Now, I beg most distinctly, on the part of my hon. Friend, on my own part, and on the part of those who think with us, to disclaim this small and paltry object of the mere saving of a few thousand pounds; our object is to correct an abuse, or what we consider an abuse, in privilege and in promotion. The hon. Member for Buckingham also said, that the Guards were of use as well as of ornament to the public service. So far as ornament goes, I quite agree with him, they are very ornamental; but as for their use, I must differ from him. The only use to which they are put, so far as I know, is mounting guard at the Palace, and at some public offices, appearing on parade, and, whenever any distinguished foreigner comes to this country, going through the ceremony of a review, for his edification. They are certainly fine and gallant looking troops, but they must make but a small impression on a foreigner who is accustomed to see 20,000 or 30,000 men reviewed, from the very small ness of their number, which in London never amounts to more than 4,000 or 3,000. I can assure hon. Members opposite, that I mean and that I feel nothing hostile or disrespectful to the Guards.
 231 Nulli secundus 232
 Sir Henry Hardinge  thought he might congratulate the House on the speech of the hon. Member, which was calculated to throw some light upon the discovery of "Junius." The hon. Member appeared to have discovered that "Junius" was an officer of the Line. If he was not much mistaken the hon. Baronet who had brought forward the motion, had drawn his information from a source equally as anonymous as the letters of "Junius." He had traced and followed him throughout all his marches and countermarches, and unless he was very much mistaken, the book now before him contained not only a great portion of the speech of the hon. Baronet, but the literal and actual words that the hon. Baronet uttered. The hon. Baronet had stated, that he got his facts from the King's  Gazette; Gazette London Review. London Review London Review 233 234 l.  l. l.
 Captain Hope  stated, that he had been seven years an adjutant in the Guards, and could take upon himself to say, that his duty was no sinecure, and that an adjutant in the Guards had as onerous and arduous duties to perform as an adjutant in the Line. With respect to the saving that would be effected by the proposition of the hon. Baronet, it would amount, he believed, to about 8,500 l. 235 l.
 Mr. Kearsley  did not feel bound to compliment the hon. Baronet for the manner in which he had brought forward his motion. He certainly thought that he had brought forward his motion very like a Serjeant of the Line, backed as he was by Corporal Junius, the hon. Member for Bridgewater. He trusted, however, that the hon. Baronet would soon receive orders to the right-about-left, and that his corporal would find admission info no service, unless of the corps which was under the command of the hon. Member for Middlesex, namely, the Old Fogies.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe , having some years since belonged to a regiment of the Guards, felt bound to express his dissent from those who stated that the Footguards was merely a school for the promotion of the aristocracy. Any Gentleman who chose to take the trouble of seeing them any day at parade would see upon their colours the record of the engagements in which they had been distinguished, in America, in Egypt, and in the Peninsular war. With respect to the present motion, if uniformity was necessary, instead of lowering the Guards to the pay of the Line, he would raise the Line to the level of the Guards. If there was any fault in our military system that more especially called for correction, it was that the soldier was too apt to be considered the mere slave of the State. With respect to any reduction of the pay of the Guards, these men had enlisted for their lives upon understood terms, and they could not fairly be deprived of those terms on which they had enlisted. The effect of raising the Line to the level of the Guards would be to raise the character of the soldier in his own estimation, and by so doing they would be able to get rid of that degrading system of corporal punishment which at present appeared to excite so much public disgust.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that there sometimes took place exhibitions in that House of which it would be more for its credit that the public should not be aware. The old proverb said,  in vino veritas? 236
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he felt himself called upon to make the remarks which he had been induced to offer to the House by the invidious distinction made between the Guards and the Line by the hon. Member for Cornwall. The Guards had been described as a sort of military police dressed in royal colours, but who were in fact mere cyphers. This statement being made, he felt it his duty to reply to it.
 Sir Charles Dulbiac  expressed his regret, that on every occasion when the army Estimates were discussed, it should be thought necessary to make attacks on his Majesty's Foot guards. He thought it unnecessary to vindicate them from the as persions which had been cast upon them. And would only say that his Majesty did not possess braver or more orderly troops.
 Mr. Charles Buller  contended, that the present system was continued for the purpose of jobbing, and of enabling young men of aristocratical connections to obtain promotions, which they would not obtain in the ordinary mode of advancement. He repeated it. The present system was kept up for the purpose of loading the Army List with officers wholly unfit for their rank. He would put it to the House, whether there were not a greater number of general officers for instance, than the country required? —and whether, without the aid of
 237 Oh!Oh!
 Mr. Ewart , in the course of the debate, had never heard it denied that peculiar privileges were bestowed upon the Guards, and that they were bestowed without reason. It had, indeed, been said, that no jealousy existed in the soldiers of the Line against the Guards. That was not sufficient. It was not enough to be shown that no discontent existed among the military, but it should also be proved that they had no cause for discontent. Upon the two grounds he had mentioned, he should give his cordial vote for the motion of the hon. Baronet, though he was afraid there was a military majority in that House ready to prevent its being eventually carried.
 Colonel Peel  said, the charges made showed the grossest ignorance of the question in those who brought it forward. He denied the existence of undue influence, or improper promotion in the Guards; on the contrary, he, at one time, exchanged into the Guards, but when he wanted to procure promotion he was obliged to go back again to the Line to effect his object.
 Sir William Molesworth  replied, with regard to his using the "London Review," no person had a better right, for it was his own property, and he would recommend it to the patronage of the House. He admitted, he never meant to deny the services rendered by the Guards in time of war, but the services rendered by the Line being not less, it could not be contended that the former were entitled to any peculiar privileges. The only reason urged, was the higher price of a commission in the Guards. This was the course of reasoning always pursued on similar occasions. It was the usual practice to prop up one abuse by another. The system of purchase was in itself a gross abuse, as it gave a monopoly of promotion in the army to the wealthy, and yet this very abuse was urged as a reason against remedying another.
 Mr. Hume  asked, whether the recommendation of a Committee last year, that more frequent changes should take place in Staff appointments in the army at the Horse Guards, had been, or was intended to be, carried into effect?
 Viscount Howick  was understood to say, that the recommendation had been referred to the Commander-in-Chief but it did not accord with Lord Hill's notion of military discipline, and it was not carried into effect.
 Mr. Hume : It appeared then, from what the noble Lord said, that the great grievance to which he alluded, was perpetuated by Lord Hill, in spite of the Re solutions of a Committee of that House, and, that the military business of this country was conducted by a department over which the Government of the country, and the Commons of England had no control. He must protest against such a system, and against such symptoms of weakness being exhibited by the Government. In the name of the public interest, he said it was their duty to exercise control and authority over every Officer of State. If the recommendations of Committees of that House were not attended to, of what use, he would ask were they? This was not the only instance, he must say, in which the Commander-in-Chief applied the patronage and influence of his department to thwart and oppose a liberal Government.
 Lord John Russell : The hon. Member for Middlesex seemed to think, that in that case the intentions of the Government had been frustrated by some decision of Lord Hill. That was not the case. The subject rested entirely with his Majesty's Ministers. When that Resolution alluded to was proposed in the Committee, he, being the only Cabinet Minister upon it, thought it right to say, that, in his opinion, it ought not to be strictly binding upon the Government, but ought to be left in their discretion; it was accordingly left in that situation; and the Government had thought proper to leave it, in a great degree, to the Commander-in-chief to decide on the propriety of carrying it into effect; With regard to the administration of the business, of the Horse
 239
 Sir Henry Hardinge : Nothing could be more candid, fair, and open than the testimony borne by the noble Lord opposite to the able manner in which the Commander-in-Chief performed the duties of his office. The hon. Member for Middlesex, too, seemed to forget that the Committee especially exempted the superior staff appointments. He had concurred with the noble Lord and the late Secretary-at-War, the Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice), in the propriety of exempting quartermaster-generals from the operation of the Resolution, on the ground that they were appointed immediately by the King, and not by the Commander-in-Chief. Nothing could be more free from any political bias than Lord Hill's conduct at the Horse Guards.
 Viscount Howick  said, the hon. Member for Middlesex had quite misunderstood him, if he supposed him to say that the Government had met with any difficulty from the Commander-in-Chief in enforcing the Resolution of the Committee.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he had always in his experience found the Horse Guards free from political bias. His father was in the army, and always voted on the Ministerial side. On a memorable and delicate subject, some years hack (he need not allude to it more particularly), he voted against Ministers; and he had never been prejudiced in the least degree by his con duct on that occasion. He was sure all military gentlemen would join him in saying, that Lord Hill was entirely free from any political feeling in the discharge of his important duties.
 Sir John Elley  begged to say a word on the subject which was under the consideration of the House. It had been said that aristocratical influence directed pro motion in the army. He was a soldier who had gone through every grade in the profession, and he would most certainly declare, that from the time he had entered the army up to the present moment, the remotest degree of aristocratic influence had never been used in his favour. He thought that the promotions in the army
 240
 Mr. Hume  said, that the case of the hon. and gallant Member who had just spoken was a glorious and honourable exception to the general rule. He thought, however, that it could not be advanced as a general argument on the subject of army promotion. There were exceptions to this as in every other rule, but would the gallant officer say, that in general aristocratic influence had nothing to do with promotion in the army? If so, his experience differed entirely from that of the gallant officer.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that nothing could be more unfounded than the observations of the hon. Member for Middle sex as to the management of business at the Horse Guards, which he believed to be entirely free from political influence; and he could not refrain from expressing his regret that the hon. Member should take occasion, upon the proposal of voles in Committee of Supply, not only to make his observations upon the number of men, the expenses incurred, and so on, but to vilify and traduce the character of officers not present to defend themselves, and without any accurate knowledge upon the subject.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  said, that the hon. Member for Middlesex was in the habit of meddling with every subject which came before the House, whether it was the army or navy, law or physic; and upon all occasions he had the misfortune to find himself in a glorious minority.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that whatever might be the opinion of the House as to the con duct of the Commander-in-Chief, there was one part of that conduct which had produced a very general feeling of indignation in the country; he alluded to the practice of allowing soldiers to wear their side-arms. [ Oh! Oh!
 Viscount Howick  wished the hon. Member had brought forward the question, which was one of very considerable moment, on a regular notice, instead of incidentally to a vote like the present. He admitted that the Government had not pressed upon Lord Hill the necessity for abolishing the practice of wearing side arms by soldiers when off duty. He believed, however, that the cases of inconvenience, or of serious accidents in con sequence of that practice had been exceedingly rare. When, then, the instances were so rare of abuse with regard to this practice, he considered it very inexpedient that the habit of self control with which soldiers in the habit of wearing their side arms were perfectly familiarised, should be discontinued. The consequence of such a change would be, that on occasions of strong excitement, when soldiers were called on to act, and when they might not be under the immediate control of their officers, they would be much more likely to transgress the bounds of duty than men who were always under the influence of salutary self restraint. He did not think that there was any ground for affixing this mark of degradation to the character of the English soldier, and, by lowering him in his own opinion, depriving him of a strong stimulus to meritorious exertion.
 Mr. Ewart  could not agree with the noble Lord, that the British soldier would consider himself lowered or degraded by being prohibited from wearing his side arms on ordinary occasions. There might probably be at first a feeling of wounded pride; but he was satisfied that such a feeling would on consideration be removed—that he would rather consider himself raised in the estimation of his countrymen by laying aside a useless but a dangerous weapon.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that when the noble Lord the Secretary at War, talked of the small number of instances in which accidents had occurred, owing to the continuance of this practice, he should remember that he (Mr. Roebuck) moved last Session for a return of the number of persons killed and wounded by soldiers who were allowed to carry their side-arms about wherever they went. That return had not yet been made, nor had the Government given any explanation why it was delayed; and, therefore, it was not for the Government to taunt Hon. Members as not being
 242 Howick:  "No, no," from the Opposition.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, the hon. Member was mistaken about the cavalry, the order being applicable to them as well as to the foot soldiers. He could not admit, that because some four or five un fortunate affrays might have occurred, the whole English army should be treated like assassins, and stripped of their arms before they left their barracks. Was any such regulation established in any other country in Europe?—in France, in Germany, for instance? No; and would the House then be prepared to declare (which they would do by passing a vote condemnatory of this practice) that the British soldier was less worthy of being trusted than the soldiers of France, of Germany, or of any conti-
 243
 Colonel Anson  said, he agreed with the noble Lord, that this was a most inconvenient time to discuss this question; and as the noble Lord had fairly stated the case, and taken the whole responsibility of the continuance of the practice upon himself, it would be as well to leave the matter in his hands. He also agreed in the sentiment, that to deprive the soldier of his side arms would be considered a disgrace, because it had become an established practice to wear them. Though the army might be capable of improvement, there was not any service in the world so well conducted.
 Mr. Maclean  remarked, that the hon. Member for Bath was mistaken in his law with respect to carrying swords; the mere act of carrying a sword was not illegal; it was the carrying any weapon in such a manner as to be alarming or dangerous to the country. He must be aware that Members of that House were accustomed on Court-days to carry certain things intended at least to represent swords; it was a proof that it was not illegal.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that nothing could be more inconsistent than the opinions which the gallant Officer (Sir H. Hardinge) advanced with reference to the dignity of the British soldier. When a pro position was made for doing away with the abominable practice of flogging, on the ground, among others, that it was continued in the British army alone, the gallant Officer maintained that the distinction in this respect was necessary to be preserved, for the reason, as he (Mr. Hume)supposed, that having made men brutes it was necessary that they be made to preserve the character. Now when it was thought by many hon. Members that the practice of
 244
 Mr. Shaw  coincided in the policy of several of the alterations which the measure went to effect; and, therefore, would not oppose its introduction. The details of the Bill would, however, require much consideration in Committee. He alluded particularly to the great expense which the Bill would entail on the City, and to the manner of appointing the officers.
 Colonel Perceval  trusted the House would allow the Bill to be read a second time, as the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, had acquiesced in its going to Committee, with a view to the removal of any clauses that might appear objectionable.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, there were provisions in the Bill to which he should most seriously object—those were the privilege of land carriage, and the power to borrow money on mortgage; but he did not object to their claims to sue and be sued by their secretary, or to their being incorporated, He should vote for the second reading and if those alterations were not made in Committee he should vote against the third reading.
 Mr. Grote  expressed his perfect concurrence in what had fallen from his hon. Friend with regard to the introduction of these Railways into the eastern end of the Metropolis. He was most anxious that the House should understand that a strong
 204
 Mr. Robinson  would like to know from the President of the Board of Trade whether he thought the Bill ought to pass? if so he would vote for the second reading.
 The Speaker  begged, to observe that hon. Members were now indulging in a very inconvenient practice—that of entering into lengthened details on the presentation of petitions. Whatever objections there might be entertained to the introduction of Railways into London, should be reserved for the Committee, and there urged.
 Mr. Wilks  could not sanction innovation and monopoly as this Company proposed. It started with a small capital, which it got leave to increase to 200,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had been waited on by several deputations from the districts in question, to say, that if the projected Railways were allowed to be brought into the heart of the City, they would be attended with almost utter ruin to them. He had hoped that the Government had taken up the subject, and that something satisfactory would be done for all the parties interested, but particularly for those complaining. He had advised his hon. Friend (Mr. Clay) to wait on the Ministry, and to state to them the hardships and grievances of this peculiar case, as one calling for an immediate remedy. He was asked why the parties about to be injured did not oppose the measure; but where were the funds? The people who would suffer by this infraction had not means to oppose the joint-stock fund of the wealthy individuals who were associated for carrying these projects into operation. The subject must be brought in a specific form before the House, otherwise the consequences must be ruinous. He was a friend of Railways, as he was to all  bonâ fide
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the circumstances of the traffic and agreement alleged to have taken place between Daniel O'Connell and Alexander Raphael, Esquires, touching the nomination and return of the said Alexander Raphael, as one of the Representatives in Parliament for the county of Carlow, at the last election for that County, and the application of the monies said to have been received, and the circumstances under which the same were received and expended. The Report was read by the Clerk, as follows:—
 "It appears to your Committee, that the subject may be arranged under two heads, the first as relating to any traffic or agreement between Mr. Raphael and Mr. O'Connell, for a seat in Parliament, and the second as to the application of the sum said to have been given. "It does not appear to your Committee to be necessary for them to enter upon any detailed summary of the evidence, but they feel it their duty to draw the attention of the House very briefly to the main points as they bear upon the question. "It appears that Mr. O'Connell addressed a letter, bearing date 1st of June, 1835, in which the agreement for Mr. Raphael's return for the county of Carlow for 2,000 l. "It appears that the money was placed to Mr. O'Connell's general account at his banker's in London. It was, however, advanced, the moment it was called for, to Mr. Vigors; and though some of it was paid in bills, the discount was allowed; the amount, therefore, was available whenever wanted, and no charge of pecuniary interest can be attached to Mr. O'Connell. "It appears also, that this money has been expended under the immediate direction of
 210
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  begged to state to the House that the Report which had just been read was the unanimous Report of the Committee. That there was no compromise of opinion, no difference of feeling, amongst its members upon this very delicate subject. He felt anxious to state this, because he thought it right that the country should know what this Report tended to prove—that eleven gentlemen, Members of that House, differing widely in political sentiments, could meet in one room, and, without the slightest hesitation, lay aside all party feeling. It was his belief, that if the country at large read the evidence with the same proper feeling that had guided the Committee, they would come to the same conclusion. He moved that the Report be printed.—Ordered.
 Mr. Gillon  thought that a very unjust monopoly was intended to be established by this Bill. It was proposed to add large additional powers to those which had
 207
 Sir H. Parnell  supported the Bill, as one in which his constituents were deeply interested.
 Mr. M. Stewart  thought this Bill gave very great privileges to this particular Company, and unless these were made general, it would be impossible for any other Company to compete with it. If, however, the objectionable clauses were to be struck out in Committee, he would not oppose the second reading. But it would only be on the distinct understanding that the only additional powers to be given to this Committee were, that partners being Members of Parliament should not hinder the Company from forming contracts for the conveyance of the mails. This Company had first obtained leave to raise a capital of 25,000 l. l.
 Mr. Clay  presented Petitions from the inhabitants of Spitalfields and Bethnal-green against the Eastern Counties (London and Norwich) Railway; from the East London Waterworks Company, and from the inhabitants of the parishes of St. George and St. Mary, Whitechapel, and Goodman's-fields, against the London and Blackwall Commercial Railway; and from the inhabitants of Whitechapel and Bromley, and the East London Waterworks Company, against the London and Blackwall Railway. The hon. Member said, that in presenting these petitions to the House, he was anxious to call its attention to, in his opinion, the very important principle involved in the subject to which they referred. Indeed, so important was the question to the metropolis, that he had intended to move that a Select Committee be appointed for the purpose of considering the principle involved in the Railroads to which the petitions referred; but, on consulting with his col-
 202 203 l. l.
 Lord Morpeth  said, it was well known that the Company had performed very great and signal services to Ireland, and this he thought a sufficient reason to extend to them an opportunity for future exertions. Any clauses that were objectionable might be altered or removed in Committee. On these grounds he asked the House to consent to the second reading.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the hon. Member might console himself. No such law existed, or had existed. He agreed with the hon. Member that nothing could be more monstrous or more unjust; but it was not law, and no particular decision could make it law. To take away a franchise for the non-payment of a tax, without giving the least notice to those who were
 259
 Mr. O'Connell  said, if he had imputed motives to the hon. Member it would have been the duty of the Chairman to have stopped him.
 Mr. O'Connell  admitted he had; he meant for the purpose of excluding votes. He had not said that was a bad purpose. He was glad to find that the hon. Member was in such good odour with himself, but he regretted that his judgment was not so good as his intentions. It seemed he did not comprehend the subject, and yet he took away the franchise, and then he praised himself.
 Mr. O'Connell  said he had used no casuistry, but casuistry had been used against him.
 Lord Stanley  put it to the Committee whether the present was either a fit time or place for acrimonious discussion? He could not, however, wonder at the warmth of the hon. Member for Tynemouth; but he hoped the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, did not mean more—though his language certainly went to a greater extent —than that the decision to which he referred had the effect of excluding votes. It was impossible to suppose that the Committee alluded to were doing their duty otherwise than fairly and conscientiously, or that they could be actuated by corrupt motives in either receiving or rejecting votes. But, to return to the clause under consideration, he must say, that it was far too important to be discussed in so thin a House. As he disapproved of the whole Bill he should not take the opinion of the Committee on the present clause, but he could not, at the same time, help observing on the unfairness of calling upon them to make provision for the self-government of those cities and towns in which Corporations were to exist without laying before them all the circumstances and information necessary to enable them to arrive at a just conclusion in each case. He should like to know how they were to decide whether a 10 l l l l 261
 Lord Stanley  said, that instead of showing that this Bill was consistent in this particular with the English and Scotch Acts, the right hon. and learned Gentleman had thought fit to avoid that part altogether. He denied that he had ever eulogised, the Act of the 9th George 4th,; what he said was, that that Act gave no political power, whereas this Bill did. He denied that this Bill had any other than political objects in view, and said that the effect of it would be to establish debating societies and political clubs in every town in Ireland. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of Lisburn; why, Lisburn was excluded from this Bill. He should like, however, to know where the right hon. Gentleman had got the information respecting Lisburn which he had read to the House. He found in a Report before the House that Lisburn contained 992 houses of all descriptions, and of those 209 were stated to be of the value of 10 l
 Mr. Sergeant O' Loghlen  said, the noble Lord had quoted from the Report of the Boundary Commissioners, and they only stated what the probable number of houses would be. The gallant Colonel (Colonel Conolly) complained that Lisburn had been left out of the Bill, because it possessed a large Protestant constituency; but he seemed to forget that Belturbet, Ballyshannon, and Antrim were inserted in the Bill, all of which were Protestant towns.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Boundary Commissioners had given too large an estimate in all cases. In Tralee the number of 10 l. l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell.  In the misapplication of this money the Corporation of Dublin had not followed the letter of the law certainly. No; but they had violated the letter of the law as much as the man who filches your handkerchief violates the letter of the law against feloniously stealing from the person.
 Mr. Goulburn  begged to ask, why in particular boroughs, where a greater number of 10 l. 1. l. l. 1. l.
 Mr. O' Connell  said, that in Kilkenny there had been no contest since the Reform Bill, and the 10 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was not intended by the Bill to give any greater weight to the new Corporations than were enjoyed by the old ones. Previously to the passing of the Reform Bill, a Return was made to the House by the Corporation of Dublin, stating, that they did not recognize the right of any freeman to demand his freedom. The Court of King's-bench, by refusing a  mandamus,
 Mr. O'Connell.  —Does the right hon. Gentleman mean to deny that the Corporation of Dublin do not recognize the right of a freeman? The Court of King's-bench decided that no such right existed. The mode adopted by the Corporation, since the passing of the Reform Bill, was in direct violation of that Act. All their admissions of freemen since were by special favour, and 400 or 500 fraudulent voters, thus admitted, had recently been placed upon the registry in Dublin.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to know whether the new Corporations were to admit those whom they chose to admit, and reject those whom they chose to reject?
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loughlen  saw no reason why the registry should not be completed in the time specified.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  did not rise to enter into a discussion upon the Bill, or the general question to which it referred, though, if the time had served, he would have gladly availed himself of the opportunity which the motion afforded for so doing. He was free to admit that the measure of which the noble Viscount now moved the third reading, was fraught with a great many advantages, and was likely to be of considerable importance in regard to the great question to which it referred, but at the same time it was his firm conviction, that it was wanting in one essential
 270 271
 Viscount Palmerston  agreed with the hon. Member in thinking that the most effectual plan that could be adopted for the suppression of the slave-trade, was for all the nations to make it a piratical offence, and punish it accordingly. It was obvious, however, that this could only be done by the consent, and with the good will of all the parties concerned, and not by the mere desire of one or two of them. Other nations, unfortunately, did not view the trafficking in human life with the same feelings of disgust and aversion that England did, and the consequence had been, that as yet it had been found impossible to persuade several of the necessary parties to concur in designating the trade as a piratical affair, and punishable as such. In the case of Spain, the British Government originally proposed to affix to the offence the severest penalty of the law, but it was eventually found impossible to persuade its Government to go to that extent. It agreed to affix to the crime a severe, but not the severest penalty. Not withstanding that, however, he hoped that much more good would result from the treaty than the hon. Gentleman seemed to expect. The Portuguese flag, it was true, might be made use of for the purposes of the trade, but it was undeniable that the power which the treaty went to give Great Britain, of putting down the trade when attempted under the flag of Spain, would be productive of most beneficial results. With regard to Portugal, he had only to observe, that the House must not suppose that there was no treaty upon the subject between Great Britain and its Government. There was a treaty, which, as far as it went, was found tolerably effective, though not entirely so. The defects, were first, that the district of country South of the Line, was not included in the limits to which it extended; and, secondly, that it did not empower the seizure and condemnation of vessels found equipped for the trade, though not in  flagranti delictu. 272
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought it evident that no practical end had been obtained. A little smoke had been raised, just to give rise to the supposition that something was being done; but as far as the suppression of the trade was concerned, it was evident no advance had been made.
 Viscount Palmerston  observed, that the smoke to which the hon. and gallant Member alluded must have got into his head, and rendered him unable to read the Bill under discussion. Had he done so he must have perceived that a most important step towards the suppression of the trade had been gained by the treaty to which the measure related.
 Mr. Finch  agreed with the hon. Member for Weymouth in thinking, that until the traffic in slaves was made a piratical offence, it would never be entirely suppressed.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  expressed his perfect satisfaction, that the Government were doing, and would continue to do, all in their power to induce other nations to join with them in discountenancing the slave trade. If, in the case of Portugal, nothing was done, he begged to say, that he would be prepared to call upon the House, by a specific motion, to sanction British cruizers in seizing vessels under that flag, in virtue of the existing treaty. He wished, before he sat down, to know from the noble Viscount, if any negotiation was pending to extend the operation of the French treaty, on the same subject, to the limits to be found in the Bill before the House?
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that though the limits were not quite as extensive as was desirable, no inconvenience had as yet resulted from their narrowness. No negotiation upon the subject was pending.
 Mr. Hindley  felt it his duty to lift up his firm protest against the introduction of the Bill, and against the alterations it proposed. It would be in the recollection of the House, that when the seven hours Bill was brought in, the Government desired more information as to the system pursued in the cotton factories; a Commission was accordingly sent down into the country attended by medical gentlemen of the first eminence for that purpose. And it was in consequence of that Commission, that the noble Lord (Lord Althorp) then the leader of that House, said, that with respect to children under eleven years of age, the Bill of the noble Lord, the Member for Dorsetshire, did not in his opinion go far enough. And he (Mr. Hindley) put it to the House, whether it was right that a Member of the Cabinet should now come down with a Bill to repeal an Act which had passed with the sanction of a Cabinet of which he was a Member not more than one or two Sessions ago.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, the House would give him credit for the great interest he had taken in this measure, and he could not but express a hope, that his hon. Friend would not continue to oppose the introduction of this Bill, as it had been moved under the impression that no opposition would take place.
 Mr. Trevor  also thought the present was not a fit time for discussing a measure of such importance.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  said, that the hon. Member had said enough, he considered, to make the Government pause before they went on with such a Bill.
 Mr. Hindley  would then reserve his opposition till the second reading, which he hoped would not be till after Easter.
 Lord Stanley  said, the question was a
 268
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Member
 269
 Colonel Conolly  said, that the whole character of the franchise established by the measure was so very low as to manifest its utter unsuitability for the county for which it was intended. The statements put forth by the learned Attorney-General for Ireland were called in question in a great variety of instances. On former occasions the learned Gentleman's statements with
 262
 Lord John Russell  said, he could answer the question with great satisfaction. His Majesty had been pleased to grant a free
 254
 Mr. Shaw  thought, as that clause had reference to the schedules, he might then call the attention of the Committee to the entire want of principle or consistency which pervaded the measure, even upon the shewing of the promoters of it. It appeared from page 8 of the Commissioners' Report, that they professed to go upon a mixed principle of population; and the circumstance of Corporations being "now effectively existing, and exercising the functions of such bodies." Schedules A and B were tolerably intelligible—but in schedule C, he (Mr. Shaw) was wholly at a loss to understand the ground upon which the boroughs were selected; for instance, Midleton and Belturbet were inserted, one with a population of 2,034, the other of 2,026—whereas Newry and Dungarvon were omitted; the former having a population of 13,065; the latter of 10,86l. But perhaps it would be said, that the two former, though of such small population, were "effectively existing" Corporations; no doubt they were arranged in a column under that heading; but he would beg to refer to the Commissioners' Report for a definition of what was "an effectively existing corporation, and exercising the functions of such a body;"—take the case of Midleton. The Report stated, that the Corporation was created solely for the purpose of returning Members to the Irish Parliament, which was exercised according to the dictation of Lord Midleton, up to the time of the Union, when the right was taken away, and compensation awarded to them; and then they came to what he (Mr. Shaw) presumed was the Commissioners' description of "an effectively existing Corporation, exercising its functions"—it was in the following words:—"Since that period the Corporation has been kept up, and an annual election of officers has been held, but for what purpose it is not easy to discover—the members of it having no duties to discharge, nor any privileges or emoluments, and the inhabitants of the town deriving no benefit or advantage
 255
 Mr. Shaw  asked the reason for the introduction of the word "office" into the pre sent Bill, which had not been in the Bill of last year.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that in the copy which he had received of the Bill of last year, the word "office" did not appear, and this Act would confer the right of franchise on about 20,000 persons. If the city of Dublin was to be legislated for at all in respect of its corporate functions, he thought that it was, at least, entitled to a separate consideration, as in the case of the city of London, and that the same machinery could not be very easily applied to the 260,000 inhabitants of Dublin, and the 2,000 of Belturbet.
 Mr. Shaw  denied, that the noble Lord (Stanley) had proposed to extend the pro-
 264 l. 265
 Mr. Shaw  said, that there was no doubt that the distinction was as well established in Dublin as in other Corporations, between honorary freemen, and those who were free by the rights of birth, servitude, and marriage; these rights were attained through the minor guilds; but, as regarded the Parliamentary franchise, it was necessary that the right should be consummated by passing what was termed the city at large. This was seldom refused, though it had been in some few instances. In one, the Court of King's-bench refused a  mandamus
 Mr. Shaw  was anxious to know how it was proposed to preserve the rights of free men to their Parliamentary franchise, as the Bill had no provision for that purpose similar to the English Municipal Reform Act. The new Corporations were to be composed of burgesses deriving all their rights from a household franchise, and there would be no recognition by them,  qua. 267 l
 Mr. Shaw  pointed out the absurdity of the shortness of the time allowed for the Mayor to perform the duty imposed upon him. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell) boasted, that there would he 20,000 voters under the Bill. Now, under the Irish Reform Act, it had taken eight Revising Barristers with eight separate Courts, six weeks to register 7,000 voters, and the time limited for the Mayor and assessors holding a single Court, was from the 1st to the 15th October, and the whole machinery of the Act depended upon the registry being completed in that time.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that all he had denied was, that there could attach any charge of individual corruption as respected the Corporation of Dublin. He did not deny the existence of the decree of the House of Lords. He admitted that the Corporation had violated the letter of the Act which regulated the pipe-water rate; but he con tended, that they had observed its spirit to the extent of expending on the works in question (under the Metal-Main Act) the full amount received, although the Act required that money to be applied in payment of a debt due by the pipe-water estate; this, however, as regarded the pecuniary interest of the Corporation was little more than the transfer of a debt from one estate of the Corporation to another; and while he would not altogether justify the departure from the Act, he could, in the strongest manner, deny, that there had been any interested misapplication of the funds, or personal fraud or corruption committed in respect of them by the Corporation of Dublin.
 Mr. Shaw  never heard of any such combination as the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded to, though he was quite free to admit, that generally speaking, the freemen were different both in politics and religion from the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Shaw.  —Nothing can be more contrary to the fact than the assertion, that the freemen in question had been admitted by special grace or favour—those who had been so admitted (being quite a distinct class) had no right to be registered as voters for the city of Dublin, and none such were registered; but it could not be for a moment maintained, that those who were free by birth or servitude ought not to be admitted to register.
 Mr. Finch  said, if Ministers would consent to strike out that clause, it would have the effect of inducing him to withdraw the greater part of his opposition to the Bill. After the concession which the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, made upon a former evening, very little difference of opinion existed between the two great parties in that House, except as regarded the administration of police, which was a matter that could be quite as satisfactorily provided for under the statute of the 9th of George 4th, as by a mayor and corporation. He would ask the hon. and learned Member for Dublin and the Attorney-General for Ireland, what great advantage in other respects was to be derived from the establishment of a mayor and corporation? He called upon them to point out, if they could, what ad vantage the people of Ireland would obtain from possessing these bodies. The only object of the party with which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was connected was, to make these Corporations political bodies, and to employ them as engines of political agitation, which the law could not reach. He could assure his Majesty's Ministers that no man could be more anxious than he was for the good government of Ireland, and if it could be shown that this measure would tend to that object, there was no one who would more readily support it than he would; but as he was convinced that the Bill would not only not conduce to the good government of the towns and cities of Ireland, but would render that country absolutely ungovernable by any British administration, whether Whig, Conservative, or Radical, he felt bound to protest against it in the strongest terms. It was known that when Ireland was under the influence of agitation, it was positively ungovernable. Lord Althorp and other individuals who had been in his Majesty's councils, had submitted statements to Parliament to show that the law was powerless under the influence of agitation. When this Bill passed, how was agitation to be suppressed? Suppose an emergeney to arise, which would render it necessary to pass another Coercion Bill, would it be possible, under that Bill, to deprive corporate bodies of the privilege of
 257 258
 Mr. George F. Young  said, the clause then under discussion rendered it necessary that all municipal cesses, rates, and taxes, should be demanded before the franchise could be interfered with. He (Mr. Young) had been most painfully circumstanced of late; for in Ireland the franchise was not made to depend upon the fact of publicity being given to the amount of each person's assessment. Now in England it was absolutely necessary that the assessment to the poor-rates should be published, and each individual could thereby know what was the amount to which he had been assessed; but, according to the law, as it applied to Ireland, a man might be deprived of his franchise for the non-payment of a tax of which he had no notice. The law ought to be so framed that a man should know distinctly what rates were payable by him.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that it would ill become him to differ on a point of law from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; but if the hon. Gentleman thought that any unjust decision had been come to in the quarter alluded to, for it would be affectation in him (Mr. Young) to profess ignorance of his meaning, it was impossible for the hon. Gentleman, or for any individual in that House, to feel to the painful extent which every Member of that tribunal did feel, that it had pleased the Legislature to place on the shoulders of men profoundly conscious of their inability adequately to discharge the duties required of them, a weight of responsibility from which, if it were possible, they would gladly relieve themselves. He could only say for them, as for himself, that in the decision to which they had come they had been guided only by an anxious desire to come to a just conclusion on those extremely difficult subjects submitted to their consideration. But in making the assertion that that decision was intended to serve a purpose, the hon. Member had brought a charge, and had imputed motives, which he had no right to ascribe, and which he threw back on him with such feelings as he knew the hon. and learned Gentleman would entertain if those aspersions were cast upon him. The hon. Gentleman said, that the decision was intended to serve a purpose. What right had he to impute motives, or insinuate accusations? "I say," continued the hon. Member, "that my motives were as pure and incapable of suspicion as any which the hon. Member could have had, had he been in my place. I give it him back, I tell him, with those feelings with which he would repel such imputations cast upon him. I repeat, I have endeavoured to fulfil the duties required of me to the best of my ability, and I will not allow him to cast any stigma upon me for doing so."
 Mr. George F. Young  said, all the casuistry of the hon. and learned Member would not induce the House to sanction the stigma which he attempted to affix upon the Committee.
 Mr. George F, Young  —You said "for a purpose."
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  wished to ask the noble Viscount (Viscount Palmerston) whether it were true
 274
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  said, that if the right hon. and learned Gentleman would take the trouble of reading the Bill of last year, as it passed that House and was sent to the House of Lords, he would find that the word "office" was inserted in it. That word was introduced in the Committee.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen , in answer to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw), must say, that he thought it would have been better to postpone his observations till they came to the schedules. He would, however, say, that the general principle upon which the borough had been selected was population—the schedule A above 20,000, the schedule B above 15,000, and as to schedule C, it would be open to correction. Belturbet and Midleton might certainly be omitted if desired, and he did not himself exactly see upon what principle Antrim and Ballyshannon had been taken in, unless there were Corporations already existing there. As to the towns that had been altogether omitted, if the hon. Gentlemen opposite pleased, they might move clauses to abolish them. He thought the
 256
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen.  —If the right hon. and learned Gentleman really meant what he said, he knew less of the affairs of the city of Dublin than any man living; for it was established by a decree of the House of Lords in 1823—and the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he (Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen) should have thought, must have known the fact, that a sum amounting to 1,500 l. l.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  said, that with respect to residence this Bill followed the provisions of the Irish Reform Bill, introduced by the noble Lord himself. He then thought a 5 l l l l
 Mr. Sheil  begged to know what the right was at present? It was said to be inchoate, and yet the Court of King's-bench refused to enforce it. It appeared from the statement of the right hon. the Recorder, that it was obligatory in the minor guilds to admit; but that it was discretionary with the Corporation to admit to the freedom, so as to enable the freemen to vote at elections for Members of Parliament. The Bill before the Committee enacts, "That no person is to be admitted by gift or purchase, but that he should be admitted by birth, servitude, or marriage." The right of exclusion remained as at present, and he thought it just that it should so remain. There was a combination in existence amongst the Protestant tradesmen of Dublin, who declared, they would not receive Roman Catholics as apprentices, lest by possibility they might obtain their freedom. If a  veto
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that when the Committee came to the schedules, that would be the time for discussing the question, whether any particular town ought or ought not have the benefit of a Municipal Corporation. The gallant Colonel (Conolly) said that Lisburn was excluded because it would not be possible to bring it under the learned Member for Dublin's domination. No; the reason why Lisburn was excluded from the Bill was, that the Corporation was extinct. But then Mallow was also excluded from the Bill, and Dungarvon also; and it would be scarcely contended that in those two towns the learned Member's influence would not tell for something. When, then, therefore, the gallant Colonel came forward and said that we exclude a particular town because we could not bring it under the domination of the learned Member for Dublin, the gallant Colonel, spoke either in utter ignorance, or misrepresented the facts of the case. He would contend that the promoters of the Bill did not desire that Municipal Corporations should be
 263
 Mr. Wakley  said, that having presented several petitions in favour of the mitigation of the sentence upon the two Dorchester labourers, the two Lovelaces, at present in New South Wales, he begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department whether any further investigation had been made into their case, and if so, with what result?
 The Attorney-General  begged to call the attention of the Committee to the question immediately before them, which was not as to the merits or demerits of the Corporation of Dublin; but as to whether there should hereafter be, in the towns of Ireland a municipal qualification or franchise, which, in some cases, should be vested in 10 l, l.
 The Attorney-General  said, the new town-council would have no discretion at all. An inchoate right did not exist, except where it could be peremptorily enforced.
 The Attorney-General  apprehended the new Corporation of Dublin would have no discretion. Those freemen who had been admitted in the way described by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, since the passing of the Reform Bill, were usurpers, and ought to be disfranchised by a  quo warranto.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, it was true that a Tariff of duties had been proposed by the Government of Portugal, which, if carried into effect, would be greatly injurious to our commercial intercourse with that country, though it was not directed more against the import of British goods than those of other nations. It was well known that the commercial treaty between this country and Portugal had expired with notice on the 30th of April last, and a negotiation was now going on for a new commercial treaty between the two countries. If that negotiation should not succeed, or if before it was brought to a close, the tariff should be carried into operation, it would be for the Government to propose to the House, and it would be for the House to consider, measures which would prevent other nations from obtaining commercial facilities in this country which they refused to give us.
 Mr. Goulburn  concurred with his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the advantages to be derived from pursuing that consolidation of the statutes which was begun by his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, on the subject of the Criminal Law, which was followed up by his right hon. Friend, the Member for Harwich, on the subject of the Customs and Excise, and which he had himself meditated to accomplish on this very subject of the Stamp Duties when he was in office in the year 1830. His right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had only done justice to his predecessors in office, when he said that a measure of the same kind with that which he had that night so clearly developed to the House had engaged their deep consideration. When he (Mr. Goulburn) was in office, in 1830, he had completed the consolidation of the laws relating to the stamp duties—which then were only 161 in number, though they now reached the larger sum which his right hon. Friend had mentioned—and had introduced into the House in the early part of the Session of that year a new schedule of duties upon various articles. That schedule was dif-
 352 353 Blackstone's Commentaries, Blackstone 354 d. d. l. d. d. 355 356 357 358
 Mr. William Ord  begged to offer the hon. Gentleman who spoke last his congratulations upon the near approximation which was proposed to be made to the object which that hon. Gentleman had so eloquently advocated when in a small minority upon the point. With reference to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, his proposal of placing in parallel columns the existing stamp duties and those proposed to be substituted, it would be impossible to act upon in the present case, from the nature of the sections. As to
 360
 Mr. Ord  would save the House the trouble of debating the question of order-by resting on the statement of his right hon. Friend to answer the objections
 361
 Mr. Hand-
 362 , in rising to bring forward the Motion of which I have given notice. I regret that I cannot adopt the suggestions of my right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Indeed, even if no other circumstances impelled me, the right hon. Gentleman had himself certainly furnished an important reason why the question of the Soap Duties should without delay be brought under the notice of the House, by pledging himself to the disposal of a large portion of the revenue in a manner which I can assure him will not meet with the approbation of those whom I have the honour to represent, and who complained, not without reason, that they have unfortunately been always excluded from the financial arrangements of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, through whatever side of the House he might come. It will be in the recollection of the House that, at the opening of the present Session, his Majesty, in his speech from the Throne, called upon the House, to direct their special attention to any measure that might tend to alleviate the distress prevalent in agricultural districts. Of that character will be found the motion which I am about to introduce to the attention of the House; but it is also connected with a circumstance I think will be considered no slight recommendation. Much as I wish, and ever have sought, that the agricultural districts should receive that protection to which they are entitled, I confess, Sir, that I should not now, or on any occasions claim relief for them, at the expense of other portions of the community. And it will form therefore matter of recommendation to this motion, that, while it comprises some portion of relief to agriculture, it will benefit all classes of the community, and give encouragement to a most important and declining branch of British manufacture. It is unnecessary, Sir, to dwell upon the subject of agricultural distress; it is universally known and deplored. But I may be permitted to observe that last year it was not of a more mitigated character than at any preceding period. But as no evil is without its concomitant good, so there is some consolation, I am inclined to think, even in this state of things. I speak from many communications I have received as well as from my own experience when I say that the different classes. operatives in this country are beginning to feel sympathy for their agricultural
 363 s. s. s. 1. s. 364 s. d. 365 l. 366 Hear, hear l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 367
 Mr. Francis Baring  rose to offer a very few observations on the present question. To begin with the remark of the hon. Member for Lambeth, that soap for exportation was chiefly manufactured from colonial oil and not from tallow, that was an argument which went against himself.
 375
 Mr. Curteis  said, he should vote against the proposition of the hon. Member for Lincolnshire. The agricultural interest, to which he was attached, would not have the country with them in it, and therefore he hoped the hon. Member would not press his motion.
 Mr. Hundley : The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer wished him to wait for the Report of the Agricultural Distress Committee. Now certainly he (Mr. Handley) should not he induced to bring forward his motion the more because they had received that report, inasmuch as he only asked his right
 382
 Mr. Charles Anderson Pelham  expressed his regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not prepared with something for the relief of the agricultural interest. He could assure the hon. Member for Bridport, that the agriculturists were not a selfish body; and though they did not wish to take a benefit to themselves at the expense of the community, they were anxious for relief, and would seek it in every constitutional way.
 Lord F. Egerton  wished to know if the noble Lord had received any information of this atrocity having been committed at the instigation of Mina?
 Mr. Hawes  rose to offer a few words in support of the motion. He believed he could show that this question presented a case of sound special exception to a very good general rule, which had been well enforced by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade. At the same time, however, he must say that his right hon. Friend had betrayed a very singular want of acquaintance with the practical part of this manufacture. His right hon. Friend argued that an increased duty on raw material could not be imposed without proving injurious to the export trade in the manufactured article. But the case of soap was an exception to this principle; the fact being that the chief
 374 l., l.
 Mr. Hawes  thought the Motion so important that it ought to have been preceded by a notice; and he was somewhat astonished, after what had passed on a former occasion, that the House should thus have been taken by surprise upon the subject. It appeared that one plan had been finally agreed upon, and although the Committee had been sitting for some time, and had taken evidence, the Report was unaccompanied by evidence, and this circumstance seemed to indicate that it had been prepared too hastily. He did not say that he would take the sense of the House on the Motion of the right hon. Baronet, but he apprehended that before it was adopted the evidence ought to have been produced. According to his understanding of the Report, it amounted to a final selection of a particular plan, and he wished to know whether the other plans approved by the Commissioners would be exhibited. The public had been long looking for them, and he thought that they were entitled to see them.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had not heard a single observation fall from the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade which could be called an argument against the proposal of his hon. Friend, who, he only complained, had not gone so far as he (Colonel Sibthorp) was inclined to go. He was prepared to show, by means of stubborn facts, that if this proposal were acted upon, not only would the large body of the agriculturists of the country be considerably benefited, but the revenue itself would be increased. The right hon. Gentleman had put this subject in comparison with the trumpery tax upon newspapers, but he (Colonel Sibthorp) would venture to say that the labourer would gladly throw aside his book, and his newspaper too, if he could see a good sirloin of beef on his table. The hon. and gallant Member concluded by observing that when the Chancellor of the Exchequer brought on his budget he should again urge the claims of the agriculturists.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  stated, that it was not upon the relative merits of his hon. Friend's proposition, as compared with the repeal of the tax upon newspapers, that he should wish to argue this question; but upon the simple proposition of his hon. Friend, and to say, that if the revenue were in a condition to spare the amount which his hon. Friend proposed to reduce, this was not the mode in which he should be inclined to appropriate it; because he believed that the proposition of his hon. Friend would not be conducive either
 369 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 370 l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. s. l. s., l. l. 371 l., l., l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l. 372 l. l., l. 373
 Mr. Harvey  had a Petition to present on the subject of the Abolition of the Newspaper Stamp Duties, but could not consign it to that ignominious bourne from which no petition returns, without adverting to a rumour which had reached him that all these petitions, which were for a "total repeal" of the stamp duty, were to be thrown away. He had been told, for he had not attended the Downing-street Parliament, that the Government had resolved upon disregarding these petitions, by reducing, and not abolishing, the stamp duties. Such a conclusion, he apprehended, could only have been arrived at in the absence of all knowledge of public opinion upon this subject, and he, therefore, trusted, that after such a manifestation as had just been made, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be prepared to defer the consideration of this subject until he could bestow upon these petitions the attention to which they were entitled.
 Mr. Edward L. Bulwer  had but a few remarks to make upon the important subject under the attention of the House. He should very certainly refrain from attempting to follow the right hon. Gentleman opposite, through the details of the many wonderful things which he set forth as
 359 d.
 Mr. Warburton;  Sir, this proposition involves two distinct questions; first, the remission of the excise duty on soap; and next, the imposition of an additional duty on tallow for the protection and benefit of English agriculturists. In the beginning of this Session I was marvelling what measures they were that would be proposed to the House to give relief to the agriculturists without their putting their hands into the pockets of the general consumer. Sir, I see that now the problem is solved; here is a measure
 376 l. l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman another question relating to another transaction of the same nature. It appeared that a man named Reeve had been stopped by some police constables, with a bundle in his possession. He was asked what it contained, but refused to answer. It was then taken from him, and was found to contain legally stamped papers. He was brought before a magistrate, fined, and not paying the fine, was sent to confinement, stripped of his clothes, and the flannel next his skin taken off, to the very serious detriment of his health. Now he wished to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman whether this was in accordance with the feelings of the people at large, or consistent with the spirit of the English laws?
 Mr. Hume  expressed himself satisfied with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, as far as it went; but he still entertained a hope, that, at no very distant period, a new light would break in upon the right hon. Gentleman, and that he would become favourable to the entire repeal of the newspaper tax.
 Mr. Hume  trusted that at all events the evidence taken by the Committee would be laid before the House before they were called upon to consent to the expenditure of any portion of the public money.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  rose to order. He wished to ask whether this discussion was proceeding in the spirit in which it was stated by the right hon. Gentleman that it should. If the Government were to have leave to bring on the Government orders to the exclusion of motions, and long discussions were to ensue upon them, it would be impossible for Gentlemen who had motions to make ever to bring them forward. He did not say this with the least wish to press his motion on the House; he knew it would be defeated by a large majority; nevertheless he would press it to a division—but he asked the question with reference to other motions, and amongst them that of his hon. colleague, who had a motion on the paper for the total repeal of the stamp duty on newspapers. He was also favourable to the total repeal of that duty. The motion of his hon. colleague was made to give way, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer might make his statement, and the understanding was, that no discussion should take place. They could not prevent hon. Gentlemen opposite from discussing the question if they pleased, it was a matter of taste for their consideration, and the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, had gone into the question in a manner that rendered it impossible the debate could be put a stop to now unless he could prove that the spirit in which the subject was entered into had been violated by the right hon. Gentleman, by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and by the hon. Gentleman who was one of the Lords of the Treasury.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested that it might be the most convenient course if the hon. Member for Finsbury would consent to allow him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to state what were the intentions of the Government, and then take the discussion on his own motion when the subject of the Stamp Duty on Newspapers was regularly brought forward in the financial statement of the year. This he thought, would be a much more convenient course than that proposed by the hon. Member.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said he would proceed to explain his views. He wished, however, the Committee to understand, that, although the proposition he was about to bring forward embraced the subject of the stamp-duties on newspapers, yet it was by no means confined to that one object. His proposition was of a much more enlarged kind, and, without wishing to undervalue the question as connected with the public press and with newspapers, he thought his proposition would be found to be deserving of the consideration of Parliament, even if there had not been any stamp-duties on newspapers at all. During the period which had elapsed since the close of the war, there had been very few proceedings of that House which had been more satisfactory than the steps which under various Governments had been taken for the simplification and consolidation of the laws, and there was a duty incumbent on the House, and which in times of peace and tranquillity it behoved the House to perform—it was, to make the laws clear and
 336 337 l., l.; 338 339 l. l. l. l.; l. l., 340 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. 341 l. s. l. s., l. l. s., l. ad valorem 342 ad valorem 343 l., s. 344 s. s. s. d., s. s. l. s. s. d. l., l., l. l. l. l. ad valorem l., s. s., 345 l. l. 346 ad valorem 347 348 d. d. d. 349 pro formâ, ad valorem ad valorem 350 bonâ fide 351
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to recall the attention of the House to the facts alluded to in the beginning of the debate, the effect of which he, however unintentionally to influence the division, had not, as might be supposed from the observations of those in favour of this motion, called on the House to come to a division on the question of the stamp duty; but, on the contrary, plainly and distinctly stated, that all discussion on the question should be postponed. He, however, felt bound to express his views on such a subject, because he considered it of importance that the opinions of the Government on a measure of so peculiar a nature should be circulated throughout the country, and carefully considered by the House. These were objects which could not be attained by any other than the course which he had taken. But so anxious and so cautious was he to avoid calling on the House for any decision on the question, that in the schedule moved for in Committee to-night, the duties now in force were proposed to be continued. He had said that he was unwilling to have the opinion of the House taken on the question of stamps until the period when, on a review of the whole of the interests of the country, it could be determined what was best to be done; and if he could have abstained altogether from disclosing his opinions on the stamp duty it would have been more acceptable to himself, and more consistent with the principles which he had laid down for the fulfilment of his duty. On the same principles he was anxious that the question of the reduction of the duty on soap should be left perfectly open to be considered when the general proposition as to the manner in which the revenue of the country should be made up, was submitted. When it was said, that such and such a measure would involve no sacrifice of revenue, he said, "Wait till you hear my propositions, and see if I make out a case; and I will hear your propositions, and adopt them if I can." The questions were open, and he was ready to argue them when the proper time came. With respect to the proposition before the House, there was one circumstance which had not been adverted to, but which had considerable weight. The only possible ground on which it could be proposed (though he dissented from the proposition) was, that it was a measure of relief to the agricultural interest. But were Gentlemen anxious to anticipate the decision of the Committee now sitting on the subject? Did they wish to overturn the
 378 s. s. s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  saw no difficulty, as far as the Government was concerned, in making the inquiry, and obtaining the information. The object certainly was, that the plan, whichever might be selected, should be executed with all due regard to economy. With regard to the exhibition of the rival plans, he had been informed that if it were done immediately, and the drawings thereby taken out of the hands of Mr. Barry, it might be attended with great inconvenience; but there would be no difficulty in giving the public the opportunity of seeing Mr. Barry's plan with the others, before the House of Commons came to any final determination. On a former occasion a question had been put to him either by the hon. Member for Middlesex or Southwark, to which he was not then prepared to give a distinct answer. The hon. Gentleman seemed to imagine that there had been some previous communication of Mr. Barry's plan to the Commissioners; but he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was now able, in the most distinct and precise manner, to assert, that up to the moment when the seals were broken, not one of the Commissioners was aware which was Mr. Barry's plan.
 Mr. Wakley  had never advocated a violation of the laws, but 400 persons had been arrested for the sale of a newspaper, which the Court of Exchequer had decided not to be a newspaper.
 Mr. Wakley  wished to know from his Majesty's Attorney-General, under what Act of Parliament a man named Cleave had been convicted for selling unstamped newspapers; and under what Act of Parliament the officers were justified in seizing those papers which were in his possession: and, lastly, how were the magistrates justified in sentencing him, in addition to imprisonment, to the punishment of the silent system?
 Mr. Wakley  was not satisfied with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, nor would his constituents be. He should certainly take an opportunity of dividing the House on the question as to the total repeal of the newspaper stamp duty. That impost was proposed originally by the 10th of queen Anne, for the purpose of putting down publications that were obnoxious to the Government. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that the general impression out of doors was, that the stamp tax was imposed in order that the newspapers might not give political information. The people thought that the goings in this House were such that the tax was imposed to prevent the people from coming to a knowledge of them. The people required information, and why was it to be denied to them? The hon. Gentleman then referred to the case of Cleave, who was confined in Tothill-fields prison for an alleged infraction of the Stamp Act. He never saw a more revolting sight than he witnessed last Friday, when he went to visit Cleave in prison. The 16th George II. provided for the punishment of the "venders" of unstamped newspapers. Mr. Cleave, when he was seized, had the papers in his bag in a cab. He was asked what he had in his possession, and he replied, "newspapers;" he was not "vending" them. Who could say what description of paper came legally under that definition. What was news? People had no right to publish the debates of the House. Could they be called news? Lord Tenterden had decided, that it was illegal to publish police reports. Could they, then, be called news? He thought these matters were subjects to which Ministers ought to give their most serious consideration.
 Mr. Wakley  would consent to adopt this course.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that in moving that the House do resolve itself into a Committee on the Stamp Bill, he should take the opportunity of expressing his perfect concurrence in what had fallen from his hon. Friend, and his hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, upon a little deliberation, be induced to do justice to the public, and consent not to take off a portion, but to abolish the entire of the stamp duty. Should the right hon. Gentleman, however, not do so, he should feel it his duty to press the House to a division. He would then move, that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House on the Stamp Acts.
 Mr. Hall  thought that all the plans were to be publicly exhibited before a final decision was formed. Mr. Barry's plan would not, he was afraid, be practicable on account of the expense.
 Mr. Halford : Sir, I rise to second this motion in the discharge of that duty which I owe to my constituents, in common with the whole agricultural body. I wish their interests had fallen into abler hands; but, Sir, after the clear elucidation of my hon. Friend, I have little more to do than to repeat the appeal he has made for protection and relief to the agricultural portion of the country. The proposal of the hon. Gentleman, in my opinion, is calculated to benefit the agricultural interests, and not only their interests, but that of every other class of the community. I know very well that we should hear of the impolicy of imposing a tax upon the raw material. I think that such an argument would serve to show the injustice which would be inflicted on the agriculturists, if, under the present circumstances, we were to admit foreign articles of common necessity to the home market, while there is also a scale of duties which affords no protection to the British producers, and robs them of that fair remuneration to which they are entitled. It is my opinion, that the doctrines of free trade and political economy, however expedient they may be in other departments, are inapplicable to agriculture; an interest, the importance of which I cannot exaggerate; and which is now burthened far more than is consistent with sound policy. Unless protection is afforded to the commodity in question, it will be impossible for it to compete with foreign produce; and if we can transfer from the Russian Exchequer to the pockets of the British agriculturists, some portion of the duty now enjoyed by that country, I think we are bound so to do. I have no doubt that the small increase of duty which is now sought for on the foreign article would increase the value of land about 30 s. 368 l. s. l.
 The Attorney-General  would not trouble the House with his opinion as to whether this conviction was in accordance with the feelings of the people at large; but as to its being consistent with the spirit of the English law, he should leave the House to judge from the facts of the case. From the information which he (the Attorney-General) had received, it appeared that the individual in question had been met by a constable, and asked what a bundle which was in his possession contained; his reply was, to knock the constable down. Such was the information he had received, and he believed it was correct. Under the 27th section of the 9th Geo. 4th he was brought before a magistrate, who fined him, as the Act authorised the magistrate, five pounds, and the fine not being paid, he was committed, according to the provisions of the Act, "either to the common gaol, or the house of correction;" in the present case, to the latter. Having been asked his opinion, he did not hesitate to say, that Reeve having been, under the Act, committed to the House of Correction, was subject to the discipline of the House of Correction. There was therefore, he apprehended, no ground for complaint, so far, at least, as the question of the hon. Member referred to a deviation from the law, in the course which had been adopted in this case.
 The Attorney-General  had inquired into the circumstances since the same question had been put to him before, and had ascertained that the man had been convicted under the 16th of Geo. 2nd, which provided, that any person carrying unstamped papers might be arrested, brought before a magistrate, and sentenced to three months' imprisonment. On the 4th day of the present month he had been found in a cab with thirty-three quires of  The Police Gazette, trover
 Sir John Hobhouse  felt bound to give an answer to his hon. Friend. Undoubtedly evidence had been taken, and the terms of the Report would show that the commissioners had been examined on the subject of the recommendation they had laid before his Majesty. As to the notice of the present Motion having been given, he could only say that it was not meant to take the House at all by surprise, and in fact the Report did not recommend any important or definitive step. All that had been decided was, that before any ultimate
 329
 Sir John Hobhouse  brought up the Report of the Committee for Inquiry into the Plans for building new Houses of Parliament, which was read as follows:—" Your Committee, after considering the Report of the Commissioners which has been referred to them by the House, and after personal communication with the Commissioners, as to the grounds on which their selection of certain plans was made, are of opinion that the plan of Mr. Barry, numbered 64, ought to be so far adopted as to be made the basis of immediate further inquiries in respect to the cost of the plan above mentioned, and to the best mode of carrying it into execution."
 Sir John Hobhouse  did not know whether it was necessary for him to preface his Motion by the statement of any details, or of the reasons which had induced the Committee to adopt the resolution now upon the table. He should however propose, in consequence of it, that a humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he would be pleased to direct inquiries to be made in conformity with the Report, and in such manner as his Majesty should deem most advisable. Me was ready to give any explanation that might be required, but it would be seen that the Report pledged the House to nothing, and merely declared that the recommendation of the Royal Commissioners had been adopted by the Committee. Should the House agree to the Report, the effect would merely be that proceedings would be taken to procure from Mr. Barry some statements of expense, without at all deciding that it ought to be incurred. The Report went no further, and the House would probably be of opinion, that under all the circumstances, due caution had been used in an important and somewhat delicate investigation. The
 328
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the course proposed to be pursued seemed to him calculated to lay before the House, at the earliest period, the information by which it was to be guided in its decision. The Motion of the right hon. Baronet was in conformity with the plan proposed in the Committee; and, as he had supported it there, he should give it his cordial support here. The House of Commons, naturally distrusting its own judgment on a matter of this kind, had recommended the Crown to select Commissioners to review the whole of the plans. They undertook the duty, of course, gratuitously, and had devoted a great portion of time and attention to the consideration of about eighty or ninety plans; they had weighed the merits of each, in conformity with the instructions they had received, and given the preference to four out of the whole number. That of Mr. Barry had received their chief approbation, both for exterior form and interior convenience. When the Committee came to discuss the subject, the members of it had not thought themselves justified in recommending the House to adopt the plan of Mr. Barry, which they preferred, without first taking some steps to ascertain the expense; and it appeared to them that under the Crown, the responsible executive department was infinitely better calculated to collect all the essential materials for a final determination, than a Committee of that House. If the House should be of the same opinion, it would amount to a  prima facie 330
 Sir Robert Peel : If it should appear that Mr. Barry's plan—beautiful in its exterior, and convenient in its arrangement as it was—could only be carried into effect under an enormous and unjustifiable outlay, which would require too great a sacrifice of economy, the motion of the right hon. Baronet implied no pledge that it should be adopted by the House.
 Sir Robert Peel  had seen in the public papers an account that either the wife or mother of Cabrera—an officer in the service of Don Carlos—had been shot by order of an officer in the pay and commission of the Spanish Government. He wished to ask the noble Lord opposite if he had any reason to know that this account was correct?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had not understood the precise nature of the complaint which had been made against the course he had pursued in respect to the stamp-duty. The noble Lord had not charged the Chancellor of the Exchequer with having given a pledge on that subject on the part of the House. It was quite unnecessary for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to vindicate himself from that
 379 380 prima facie prima facie prima facie 381
 Lord Mahon , seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in his place, wished to ask him a question relative to negotiations which had been some time
 333
 Viscount Palmerston  could assure the noble Lord, that his Majesty's present advisers were quite as anxious that the negotiation referred to should be brought to a satisfactory termination as were the Government of which the noble Lord had been a Member. It was quite obvious that the termination of disputes between Spain and her colonies was most desirable for many reasons, besides that which affected the commerce carried on by and with these countries. It was quite true, as the noble Lord had stated, that Generals Soublette and O'Leary had arrived in London, and proceeded to Madrid, on the subject of the negotiation which had been referred to. General Santa-Maria had also arrived in London, and had gone to Madrid, to take part, on behalf of Mexico, in the negotiation; and as far as a Minister of Great Britain could take part in it, by the interposition of his friendly offices, Mr. Villiers had interfered; and in so doing, only acted in perfect conformity with the instruction of the Government he represented. The part he had taken, however, was necessarily unofficial—the interference of a friend of both parties. He had at present no reason to believe that the negotiation was broken off. It was in some degree connected with a communication made by the Government to the Cortes; for the Government, instead of concluding a treaty on the part of the Crown, preferred making this communication to the Cortes. The
 334
 Viscount Palmerston  was much afraid that the account was correct. He had no official information on the subject; but from an account contained in a private letter he had received, he feared there was too much reason to apprehend the account was correct. The account he had received of this diabolical atrocity represented it (so we understood the noble Lord) as a reprisal for Cabrera's having shot the wives of four officers of the Government army.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that such was the rumour; which, however, might be quite false.
 Viscount Sandon  hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would remember the beneficial effect of the former reduction of duty, and not persist in refusing the further reduction of the soap duties, which was demanded of him.
 Mr. Roebuck  presented a Petition from Macclesfield, signed by 5,000 persons, against the Bill. The Bill, he observed, by one of its clauses, went to continue the principle of imprisonment for Debt, though the House had more than once decided that that principle should be abandoned, and though it was most probable a measure to that effect would be carried through Parliament this Session. Considering the Bill objectionable, upon these and other grounds, he should move that it be read a third time that day six months.
 Lord Stanley  complained that this opposition should have been reserved for the third reading of the Bill, after it had been thoroughly examined and discussed in Committee, and after it had passed through the Committee, with the approbation of all persons locally interested in the measure. The clause principally objected to by the hon. Member gave the Commissioners the power of imprisoning for Debt for seven days only, and should the general measure for the abolition of imprisonment for debt be passed, there was no doubt that it would override this and similar local Acts in that respect.
 Lord Stanley  said, that he would move that this Bill do pass, without saying a single word that might tend to revive the excitement which prevailed on the subject of this private Bill yesterday evening, and he hoped that the hon. Gentlemen who had then opposed it would be now satisfied, having the printed copies of the Bill in their hands, and that no further opposition would be offered to its passing.
 Mr. O'Connell  said the matter lay in the narrowest compass. The State of Cracow had not violated the treaty in any part; but the three protecting Powers —the three plundering Powers, as he should call them—had been guilty of the grossest, most undisguised, and unmitigated violations of treaty. In their note itself they did not pretend that this act came with in the terms of the treaty, and yet they marched their troops into the neutral territory that ought to hare been protected by the guarantee of France and England, and thereby committed what, on a small scale would have been a felony, and what in the circumstances amounted to land piracy. It was said, that Austrians being sent to occupy Cracow, instead of Russians, greatly mitigated the evil. It was a mitigation only of that kind which had been dealt out to the Spanish nobleman, who, being sentenced to be executed, pleaded the rights of nobility as an exemption from that punishment, and a silken rope was handed to him instead of a hempen halter. Would any one assert that the Queen of Spain would have a right of war against Great Britain, because there were Carlists in that House ready to make arrangements to support Don Carlos? Certainly not; and yet that was the sort of pretext on which these crowned robbers had marched their troops into the Republic of Cracow, in violation of its neutrality and independence. Their only plea was their will — their only justification was their strength. They seemed to have forgotten that we were parties to the Treaty of Vienna, and, in their for gleefulness, they treated not only this country, but France also, with the grossest contempt and contumely. It was a mistake to suppose that the people of England did not feel strongly on behalf of Poland. That feeling was working its way rapidly in every country in Europe, and these despots would soon be made to know what they did not appear to know at present— he meant the effect of their being so glaringly in the wrong in
 422
 Mr. O'Connell  observed that this provision was taken from the, English Act. One man escaped punishment when he gave evidence against another, and upon the same principle was this provision framed.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to caution the gentlemen opposite against sneering at judges who had been elected, inasmuch as an elected judge (Mr. Shaw) was at that moment sitting next to the right hon. Member for Tamworth. He would beg leave to remind hon. Members that by the common law all judges were elective, and no Act of Parliament was ever passed taking away that common law right. As to the King's Bench removing Magistrates, they certainly had the power, but very
 429 nil
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the whole
 430
 Mr. O Loghlen  could not help thinking that the powers to be conferred on the mayor, as a justice, were supposed to be much more extensive than the clause directed. The mayor would be merely empowered to act with another justice, on a summons issued under the bye-laws; but from their decision on such a matter there was an appeal in the larger towns to the Recorder, who had jurisdiction over almost ail questions of a civil or criminal nature. In the smaller towns the justices of the county had a concurrent jurisdiction with the mayor; and from their decision there was an appeal to the assistant barrister.
 Mr. O'Connell  protested against the proposed alteration, and said it was quite astonishing that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Recorder, should be so ignorant of the history of the Corporation of Dublin. Was it possible he should never have heard of Mr. Curran's celebrated speech on the occasion of Alderman James's rejection—or, having heard, could he have forgotten it? At all events, he would venture to assert, that to his dying hour, Lord Clare never forgot that memorable speech; and, above all, he would ask, could the right hon. Gentleman have forgotten Lord Clare's speech in the House of Lords upon the same subject? The new rules decidedly gave a negative to the Lord-Lieutenant and Council, and that veto was exercised in the case of Alderman James. The "new rules" were established for the purpose of excluding Dissenters from corporate offices. Those Dissenters were, in most instances, descendants of Cromwellians, and, therefore, found little favour in the eyes of the minions of Charles 2nd. He regretted exceedingly that Government should have made he concession. The clause as it stood was a good one; and no man could possibly be a sheriff, under the Bill, who was not
 433
 Mr. Lefroy  proposed an amendment to this clause, ensuring compensation to certain persons holding offices under charter in the city of Cork.
 Mr. Lefroy  contended that there were six aldermen of the wards in Cork who, as Magistrates, were entitled to preside in the Court of Conscience in that city. They were entitled to receive fees— they had a vested right in these offices for life, and were therefore entitled to compensation.
 Mr. O'Connell  —It is quite out of the question to give this man compensation. He is, forsooth, president of the Court of Conscience, and therefore must get compensation. It is called the Court of Conscience because conscience never enters it. At all events the Bill does not do away with the Court, and therefore he has no claim for compensation. With respect to Mr. Morrison, he was a very good innkeeper, but totally unfit to be elected Lord Mayor of Dublin.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  could not permit the subject to be disposed of in this manner. He had heard with a great deal of pleasure a portion of what had fallen from his noble Friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
 425 426
 Lord John Russell  was much more disposed to coincide in the opinion expressed by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, than to agree in the sentiments of the hon. Member for Middlesex. It would, he considered, be very unwise in that House to come to a strong resolution unless it was prepared for worse. They had seen, for example, in a neighbouring country, a public Chamber giving expression to a strong opinion upon the nationality of Poland; but not following it up by any further proceedings. He must confess that the expression of an opinion, not followed up by any distinct acts, could neither increase the reputation of the Chamber from which it emanated, nor add to the dignity of the country. Therefore it was, that he could not agree in the views of the hon. Member for Middlesex. They could not with propriety come to a resolution strongly expressive of their indignation, unless they were prepared to take such a step as had been referred to by the gallant Admiral, the Member for Devonport, and have a very large force to support their resolution. With respect to the question itself, which had been put by the right hon. Gentleman, he thought it was exceedingly right that such a question should be brought before the House. He thought it very proper that the House should not allow the occurrence of the kind adverted to that evening to pass without notice. The right hon. Gentleman was therefore quite right in calling upon the Secretary for Foreign Affairs to give some explanation respecting it. That explanation had been given, and up to the present moment the noble Lord had, he considered, shown that the honour of England had not been committed in this transaction. As the right hon. Gentleman had not proposed any motion, and as there was nothing before the House but a motion of mere form, he wished that, as there was a very important question to come before the House, the subject would now be allowed to drop.
 Lord John Russell  supported the clause, and contended, that when the English Bill was going through the House, no objection was made to the election of justices.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was not his fault that the hon. Member for Southward had not an opportunity of bringing the motion of which he had given notice forward last night; on the contrary, he had expected the motion to come on, and had been prepared to meet it. The motion had been prevented being brought forward only in consequence of the discussion arising on a private Bill, and the motion thereupon for an adjournment of the House, made, he believed, by the hon. Member for Bath. He thought, therefore, the hon. Member for Southward had no right to insinuate that his course had been impeded by his Majesty's Government. There were only Mondays and Fridays in each week on which Committees of Supply were fixed, or the Bills of the Government took precedence, and it was too much that the hon. Member should now interpose on one of those evenings, with a matter, though he admitted it to be of importance, but not of a pressing nature. If the hon. Member should persist in bringing it forward on Monday, when he, Lord John Russell should move the Order of the Day for the further proceeding of the Tithe Bill, he could not prevent the hon. Member doing so, though he must say that the discussion of the subject at that period of the Session would be most unnecessarily and veraciously interposed. He did not deny the importance of the question, but he would not bind himself to its interference with that of the settlement of the question of Tithes in England. He would, however, in the course of the evening, communicate to the hon. Member some day after Easter, when he should be ready to meet him on that question, and to discuss it fairly.
 Lord John Russell  said, that owing to there being no House made on Wednesday, the Committee of Supply did not stand in the orders of to-day. He, however, proposed to go into it, and with that view should move that the dropped orders be now read.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that he remembered several instances, in which a similar course to that he proposed had been pursued. It was the established custom to fix supply nights for Mondays and Fridays, though, in consequence of the House not meeting on Wednesday, the order for a Committee of Supply on that day could not he postponed until to-night. Though the navy estimates were on the notice-paper he did not propose now to take a vote in respect to them, but would at present content himself with moving that the dropped orders of Wednesday be now read, in order to their being disposed of, and to enable the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Stratford Canning) to bring forward the subject of which he had given notice.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the whole principle had been discussed on moving the
 431
 Colonel Perceval  —I cannot hear the observations which have just fallen from the learned Member without telling him that the present Lord Mayor of Dublin is respected by every honourable man in society whose respect is worth having. The Lord Mayor has raised himself to the station which he at present fills by his honest industry, and never was accused of living upon money wrung from the most wretched peasantry in the world. This, at all events, was the first time that ever the breath of slander or calumny was vented against him. I appeal to the hon. Members at both sides of the House, whether or no I have exaggerated in the slightest degree when I state that the present Lord Mayor of Dublin possesses the universal esteem of all those who have marked his honourable career through life. should be at a loss to discover why it is that the Lord Mayor of Dublin should be subjected to the attacks of the learned Member, were it not that he had once lauded him as his friend. I remember myself, when the present Lord Mayor was the subject of the learned Gentleman's panegyric, and I myself, when unknown to the learned Member, was present when he lavished the most fulsome praises upon him. It was perfectly true that Alderman Morrison was once in an humble station of life, and it is equally true that he once kept an hotel; but was that a reason why he should have been spoken of in the taunting and disparaging manner in which the learned Member had indulged.
 437
 Colonel Perceval  called the attention of the Committee to the monstrous injustice that would be inflicted upon the Lord Mayor of Dublin if no compensation were provided for him. The Lord Mayor of Dublin was entitled to act as president of the Court of Conscience the year after he filled the office of Lord Mayor. From this office he derived a sum of about 1, 500 1. [hear]. 436
 Mr. Harvey  could not but feel surprised, when he compared the fierce resistance which had been made to this motion last night with the very tame and insipid acquiescence in it to night. If he did not know what a sincere friend the hon. Member for Middlesex was to the revision of the Pension List, he should have supposed that he had received a hint—not from the Treasury Bench, for the Members there must of course be friendly to his motion— but from the other side of the House, to devise some stratagem or other by which his motion might be defeated. Knowing this, he should have thought, that instead of his hon. Friend's concurring in the motion of the noble Lord, he would have found ample justification for the course he had pursued in the Bill. True it was, such was the confusion of propositions last night, that he apprehended that those who made them were the most perplexed by them. For his own part, he would say, that to imprison a man, not because he had property, but because he had none, was a monstrous proposition; and if no other person in the House stood up against it, he would. He complained that private Bills were thought beneath a Member's attention, and no one would be heard upon them for a moment, unless it was some great club day, when some party question was expected to come on.
 Mr. Harvey  remarked, that there seemed a very considerable confusion as to the state of public business. This was to be attributed to the unprecedented course of proceeding pursued last night, and on the previous evening. He did not wish to impede the public business under the guidance of the Government: he never had done so, and it was only fair that the noble Lord who led the business of the House on the part of the Government should afford him every facility in bringing forward the important subject, so interesting to the public, into which he (Mr. Harvey) was last night prepared to have gone. He would, how, ever, now state, that unless the noble Lord would assure him of some assistance in this respect, he would bring forward his motion with respect to the Pension List on the reading of any Order of the Day on Monday next, whether that order might relate to tithes, the church, or any other subject. At the same time, he wished it to be understood that this course was forced, upon him, and that he had no desire to f pursue it. He, therefore, would ask the; noble Lord to accede to him some day, s either before or after Easter, for the dis-
 403
 Mr. Shaw  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell) might spare his sympathy. It was true he had been elected to his office by a popular assembly—but he had, notwithstanding, never concealed his opinion even from the body who had elected him —that on principle a popular assembly should not have the election of a judicial officer. The argument of the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck) had, at least, the merit of consistency— for he contended that all the judges of the land should be elective, and hold their offices at the pleasure of the popular voice—but that was going rather farther than he apprehended his Majesty's Ministers were yet prepared to go. It was their inconsistency which he attacked— they had adopted a different principle in all their legislation for Ireland from that of this Hill. By their present Constabulary Bill the Lord Lieutenant might appoint a stipendiary Magistrate to every one of the many boroughs in question. This clause, taken with the 83d, 84th, and 85th, would establish a complete system of village tyranny in Ireland, for the town-council, which, if ever established, would be in the hands of a dominant party—would annually have the election of this mayor, and the power of making bye-laws which he was to execute. These bye-laws were to create offences and impose penalties; the penalties to be recoverable in a summary way before the mayor holding office at the will and pleasure of the town-council, and by the 85th clause, all the fines arising out of these convictions, were to be carried to the borough fund.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the Bill of last year made the election by seniority in ease of the absence of the mayor, whereas this clause in that case added one more to the innumerable elections that were to be held under the Bill.
 Mr. Shaw  thought the words of this compensation clause obscure. It did not sufficiently provide for the compensation of officers, who, though they held their offices in form, from year to year, yet virtually held them for their lives, and had many of them abandoned other profitable pursuits in order to accept them. Then, as to the Lord Mayor of Dublin, it did not provide compensation for the loss he would sustain by not having the profits of the Court of Conscience the year after his mayoralty, as now secured to him by the Act of 33rd of George 3rd., eh. 16; also as to the aldermen of Dublin, who not only were to lose their offices and stations. but the Corporation Commissioners had reported that each of them had been 600 l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he hoped, after the confident statement of the Attorney-General for Ireland, and the hon. and learned Member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell), that he, (Mr. Shaw) had been mistaken or ignorant with respect to the case of Alderman James, the Committee would allow him to prove from the Report of the Corporation Commissioners, that his (Mr. Shaw's) view of the case was perfectly
 434
 Mr. Shaw  said, that this clause contemplated a very material change in the office of town-clerk, inasmuch as those officers now held independent offices for their lives; whereas, this clause made them removable at the pleasure of the new town council; and, by referring to the 115th clause, it would be seen that most important functions would be conferred upon them in respect to the nomination of juries, while they would hold their offices at the mere will and pleasure of probably a dominant majority. Then, as regarded compensation provided by the 60th clause, great injustice would be done to the existing town-clerk, who held an independent office for life, and for which he might be deprived of compensation by what was then termed a re-appointment to an office of a very different nature— namely, an annual office, from which he was removable at the pleasure of the town-council.
 Mr. Shaw  would not dwell upon the clause, as the Government had yielded the appointment of sheriffs by the town-council, because the principle was untenable. But he must dissent from the doctrine of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. O'Loghlen) that the appointment was before virtually in the Lord-Lieutenant, from the power given to him of approbation or rejection, by the "new rules" of Charles 2nd. The truth was, that had been considered a mere form; and the Lord-Lieutenant and Privy Council had, he believed, never been known to exercise it in the rejection of a corporate officer, duly chosen by the Corporation, in whom the election was vested, until the extraordinary and capricious use made of that power by Lord Musgrave, in the case of the Corporation of Cork.
 Mr. Shaw  denied, that any provision was made by the Bill sufficient to compensate the Lord Mayor of Dublin in respect of the Court of Conscience, as the Bill provided that the Mayor was to preside in that Court, and not the Mayor of the year preceding. He could not but say a word in behalf of the truly estimable individual who now held that office, in reply to the unwarrantable attack made against him by the hon. Member (Mr. O'Connell). He (Mr. Shaw) could suggest an additional reason to those urged by his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Perceval), for the attack made upon the Lord Mayor of Dublin by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell.) It was, that the Lord Mayor of Dublin had been considered as of liberal opinions, and friendly to the cause of the Roman Catholics. It was true that he had kept an hotel in the city of Dublin, but was that any reproach to him? Alderman Morrison had now retired from business, having raised himself by his talents and industry to the highest office in his native city, and having arrived at old age with the good will and universal esteem and respect of every class and denomination of his fellow citizens.
 Mr. Finch  opposed the clause, and said, that the Attorney-General for Ireland defended it, not so much because it was right in itself, as because the power possessed by the mayor was of a very limited nature; but if this power was likely to be used by a party man, and for party purposes, he must consider the clause as highly objectionable, and he should, therefore, oppose it.
 Mr. George F. Young  could not avoid thinking that this clause was totally inconsistent with propriety. He could perfectly understand why a person guilty of an offence should be discharged from the penalties thereby incurred, on becoming king's evidence—but when the particular privilege of the franchise was to be conferred on an individual on the supposition, of course, that he was duly qualified for the exercise of that franchise—upon what principle was it, he would ask, that if that individual was known to have offended in any way, he was deprived of all right to such franchise, but, that should he give evidence of another person having committed an offence, he was not only, in consequence thereof, discharged from all penalties imposed by his own offence, but actually had restored to him the
 427 Attorney Geared:
 Mr. George F. Young  disagreed from the doctrine laid down by the Member for Bath, that all the Magistrates and Judges should be elected. He would much prefer that the justices should be appointed by the Government, as he was confident justices so appointed would be much less likely to be swayed by party prejudices than if they owed their election to the popular voice.
 Mr. Aglionby  concurred in the view of the subject taken by the hon. Member for
 401
 Mr. Roebuck  defended the clause, and contended that the country never could expect to have good judges until they should be elected by the people and made responsible to them.
 Mr. Roebuck  objected to the clause altogether. Was it to be endured that, because a man enjoyed a lucrative office for
 435
 Mr. Hume  observed, that England was undoubtedly bound by treaties; but if any thing could show the absurdity of such treaties, it certainly was the mode in which the treaty to which reference had been made, was violated. Let them remember that the Treaty of Frankfort had been violated in the same gross manner. But the noble Lord would, it appeared, allow the Treaty of Vienna to be violated in the same manner that the Treaty of Frankfort had been. The noble Lord, however, was waiting for information. Of what use were the Ministers at Berlin and Vienna, if the moment they had heard of this transaction they had not apprised the noble Lord? The noble Lord had to send from this country for information. Why, he would ask, had they not a ministerial resident at Cracow? It seemed to him that our diplomatic establishments were utterly useless, and certainly little information was communicated by them. He hoped that the Commons of England would, when the documents were laid on the table, declare in the plainest manner what was the guilt of those who had violated treaties. But he was told the Commons could not do this without risking a war. Now he, for one, certainly did not wish to see the country plunged into war; he thought that the country had often been brought to the verge of ruin by engaging in war, in which its real interests were not concerned. They should, however, get rid of stipulations, if by them they could not secure the independence of the smaller states. Although. Cracow might not be larger than the parish of Marylebone, still its independence had been secured by treaty. Now if they were by treaty bound to pay Russia, they should, before they allocated any such sum of money, see whether it could not be
 424
 Mr. Hume  said, that having been one of those who had opposed the Bill, he begged to say a few words. He had objected to it because it went to continue the principle of imprisonment for debt, a principle which that House and the Government had already condemned, and because it established a law in England that did not exist in Scotland. He objected to the Bill, he repeated, because he regarded it as a violation of a principle over and over again asserted by that House; yet, seeing that in the situation in which the Bill was, it was impossible to take any further step with regard to it, except either to reject or pass it, and seeing that it contained the objectionable principle of imprisonment for debt to the least extent possible, he (Mr. Hume), while he protested against that part of the Bill, and against being compromised by it, was not disposed, after what had taken place, to offer any further opposition to the measure.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, that the Court of Conscience was a civil court, and it appeared to him that compensation was promised in the terms of the clause for such a case.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman, the Recorder of Dublin, forgot the famous case of Alderman James, where three times, successively, the Lord-Lieutenant and Privy Council had rejected the person chosen by the Corporation of Dublin.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, that after the intimation given by the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, on a former evening, he now rose to propose an alteration in the clause as originally framed, and intimated his intention of giving up the appointment of sheriffs, and vesting it in the Crown. At the same time, he must confess that he thought it of not much importance, inasmuch as the Committee were aware that by what were called the new rules of Charles 2nd., the Lord-Lieutenant and Council had the power of rejecting the persons elected by the Corporation. The sheriffs by "the rules" were not allowed to serve if disapproved of by the Lord Lieutenant and Council—and such power of rejection virtually vested in the Lord Lieutenant the appointment to the office. There was only one difficult}', arising out of the power of the Corporation to re-elect the same person, and that difficulty was got rid of by the 54th clause of the Bill. He considered that the Bill as it stood would have given the appointment to the Lord-Lieutenant, but as a difference of opinion appeared to exist upon it, he would
 432
 Mr. Sheil  said, it must be admitted the concession was a most important one, and one that he trusted would be felt, and have a proper influence, as well amongst hon. Members opposite, as in another place. In Ireland, the Crown practically exercised power in the administration of justice, by striking out the names of all persons obnoxious to the Government who may happen to be called upon to serve as jurors. After the great sacrifice which Government had just made, he did not see how hon. Members at the other side could further continue their opposition.
 Mr. William Roche  supported the clause, and said, that even under the bad system at present existing in Ireland, he had often seen Magistrates act together without any bias of political or religious feeling.
 Sir Harry Verney  said, that no circumstance had excited his commiseration so much as the fall of that noble people, who had made, he trusted, not their last struggle for their independence. He called on the Government to secure the friendship of those nations which surrounded Russia; he called on them to secure the interest of Turkey, Persia, and Carcasses; he called on them to obtain permission of the Turkish Government to send a fleet to the Black Sea. Russia had acquired influence in all the nations surrounding her, and it was the duty of this country to seek to obtain the confidence of the Powers threatened with Russian aggression. He hoped there would be such an expression of feeling by the House that night, as would inform Russia that she must despair of obtaining the sympathy of any party.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the learned Member for Tipperary had referred to what had been the practice in Ireland, but which was so no longer. Since his learned Friend (Mr. O'Loghlen) came into office, the practice of putting jurors aside had been entirely abandoned, and during the late assizes the best results had followed.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was understood to say that the power of public opinion would exercise its influence to check such proceedings. The wrong committed against Cracow had stricken terror into the north-
 423 l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to ask the noble Lord opposite, (Lord John Russell) what course he proposed to pursue with reference to the business on the paper, which had been dropped in consequence of what had taken place on Wednesday and last night?
 Sir Robert Peel  had no wish to obstruct the progress of the public business, but he must dissent from the statement of the noble Lord, that in several instances the same course as that now proposed had been followed. His (Sir H. Peel's) recollection was, it was only by universal consent that dropped orders took precedence, and that never had such a course been followed in. respect to a Committee of Supply.
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that no notice had been given of a Committee of Supply to-night, though it was true that Mondays and Fridays were ordinary supply nights, and though there appeared in the votes of moving the navy estimates in the Committee of Supply, yet of that Committee the orders
 402
 Sir Robert Peel  agreed that in matters of legislation the majority must govern the minority, but he altogether protested against its being applied to the administration of justice. It was the duty of the House to insure as much confidence in the pure administration of justice in Ireland as they could possibly inspire, and he contended that that could best be achieved by vesting the appointment of the justices in the hands of the Crown. The hon. Member for Bath said that the highest judical offices ought to be elective, but that was not the principle of the Government, nor the principle of the Bill. By this Bill the Recorder was to be appointed by the Crown, and the principle if it were good as regarded the Recorder, why should it not hold good with respect to justices?
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the defence set up by the noble Lord was a most, extraordinary one. His defence was, that the mayor being elected every year, his power of mischief would be so small; no apprehension need exist upon the subject. The noble Lord's defence reminded him of the defence set up by a woman who was accused of having had an illegitimate child. It is true, said she, I have had a child, but then it was a very small one.
 Sir Robert Peel  objected to the clause altogether. Mayors of towns elected by popular suffrage, should not be justices of peace. All that applied to corporate sheriffs would apply also to corporate justices. The mayor as a justice was entirely independent of the Lord-Chancellor, and could not be removed in a summary manner, as a justice of the peace might be. In Ireland it was was found necessary to act upon a different rule with regard to county Magistrates from that pursued in England. There was a summary power in Ireland to remove Magistrates. In England the Lord-Chancellor rarely removed a Magistrate, unless he was convicted of some offence; but in Ireland the practice was, without waiting for any conviction—upon, for instance, the ground of partiality or general unfitness to do so. Complaints were made on this subject by General Burke and Mr. Barrington in their evidence before, the Committee in 1825, upon the express grounds that town Magistrates were not, as county Magistrates were, subject to the direct control of the Lord Chancellor. These witnesses were asked, had not the King's Bench authority to act in reference to this subject—and their reply was, that although the King's Bench
 428
 Sir Robert Peel  admitted that the alteration proposed by the Attorney-General for Ireland was a most important one; but he repudiated the idea of its being effected by way of compromise. It was not a concession to his (Sir Robert Peel's) side of the House; it was a concession to justice: and he gave his Majesty's Ministers credit for the manliness and fairness of the mode in which they avowed their change of opinion.
 Sir Stratford Canning  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the late events at Cracow. It would be in the recollection of the House that, about a fortnight since, he had put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department on the subject of a rumour which had then, for the first time, gone abroad, of the military occupation of Cracow by the combined forces of Austria, Russia, and Prussia. That which was then a rumour had since taken the shape of notorious and
 404 405 "So long as the present state of things continues, every subject of the free city of Cracow who intends to pass the frontiers of one of the three neighbouring States cannot be admitted without a regular passport, signed by the respective residents. The three protecting powers flatter themselves that the required clearing of the territory of Cracow will, in consequence of the facilities offered to the Government of the republic, be effected without further difficulty. Should they, however, be disappointed on this subject, and should the period above fixed, pass over without the complete execution of the measures in question, the three Courts will feel themselves bound to effect, by their own means, what the Government of Cracow may have wanted the inclination or the power to carry into execution," 406 "As soon as the measures which the care of the august protectors of the republic has caused to be adopted in its behalf shall have been executed—as soon as the town and territory of Cracow shall be freed from the dangerous men that have assembled in it, and tranquillity and order shall have been re-established—the present occupation will have attained its object, and the troops under my command shall leave the territory of the republic. The administrative and judicial authorities of the republic shall suffer no interruption in the exercise of their functions. It is, however, understood, that, in so much as relates to the measures necessary for the public security, and the expulsion from the territory of Cracow of the refugees? that have intruded into it, they shall act under the military authority with which the high protecting powers have especially invested me during the present circumstances." 407 ad interim "At. 1. The city of Cracow, and its territory, shall be considered in perpetuity as free, independent, and strictly neutral, under the protection of the three high contracting powers." "Art. 6. The three Courts bind themselves to respect, or cause to be respected, at all times, the neutrality of the free town of Cracow, and of its territory, No armed force,
 408 "On the other hand it is understood and expressly stipulated that no asylum or protection shall be given in the free town of Cracow to any deserters or prosecuted individuals belonging to the countries of any one of the three powers; and that such individuals, on the application for their extradition, made by competent authorities, will be arrested without delay, and delivered under a strong escort to the guard appointed to receive them on the frontiers." "The three Courts having approved of the Constitution by which the free town of Cracow and its territory is to be governed, and which is annexed as an integral part to the present articles, take that Constitution under their common guarantee." 409 410 411 412 "Cracow, Jan. 23,1836. "The  Cracow Gazette  413 "—lacerum crudeliter ora, "Ora, manusque ambas populataque tempora raptis "Auribus, et truncas, inhonesto vulnere nares." "Unhappily, in the midst of these promising appearances, the spirit of discord seized upon one part of the nation: citizen armed against citizen; the sons of faction seized the reins of authority; and laws, and order, and public safety, and justice, and police, and commerce, and agriculture, all are either gone to ruin, or stand on the brink of destruction." "The connexions between nations, which border on each other, are so intimate that the subjects of the neighbouring powers have already felt the most disagreeable effects from these disorders. These powers are obliged, at a great expense, to take measures of precaution, in order to secure the tranquillity of their own frontiers." "Their said Majesties have determined, without loss of time, and with one accord, to take the most effectual and the best combined measures in order to re-establish tranquillity and good order in Poland, to stop the present troubles, and to put the ancient Constitution of that kingdom, and the liberties of the people, on a sure and solid foundation." 414 "The Empress has ordered part of her troops to enter the territory of the Republic. They show themselves there as friends, cooperating in the re-establishment of the rights and prerogatives of the Republic." "I, Timothy Tutolmein, Lieutenant-general &c, in executing the supreme will of my Most Gracious Sovereign, the Empress of all the Russias, make known to all whom it may concern, that Her Imperial Majesty, having repressed the troubles generally prevailing in the provinces occupied by her troops, means to incorporate with her own estates, for ever, the provinces adjoining to the governments committed to my care." 415 416
 Lord Morpeth  said, that as the mayor was only elected for a year, he possessed very little power to do mischief.
 Lord Morpeth  bore his testimony in favour of the respectability of the Lord Mayor of Dublin; but he begged to remind the House, the question before the House was one of recompense for loss of emolument.
 Viscount Palmerston  did not think his right hon. Friend required any apology for having introduced this subject to the notice of the House; it had already excited much public attention, and it was perfectly natural that the House of Commons should take it into their most anxious consideration. The state of Cracow had been created and established by a treaty to which England was a party; any apparent violation, therefore, of the independence of that state, or any apparent departure from the treaty by which it had been established, deserved, and necessarily called for, the attentive consideration of that House. Government, as yet, had not received any official communication from the three Powers, either as to the causes of the military occupation, or as to the fact of its having taken place; he was indebted for all he knew of the circumstances to our Ministers abroad, to whom he had written for information on the subject, and the notices which had appeared of the proceedings in the different journals of Europe. When, therefore, his right hon. Friend called on
 417 à fortiori 418 419 420
 Viscount Sandon  ventured to hope, that, from the expression of feeling which had been made in that House, Russia would find that she could hope for no sympathy from either side of the House of Commons in respect to her aggressive policy. He cordially participated and concurred in almost everything which had been stated by his noble Friend opposite (Lord Palmerston). Perhaps, under the law of nations, strictly speaking, no Power or State had i the right to harbour those persons who might fairly be considered parties who were likely to endanger the peace of the neighbouring countries; and so it would be in this ease, if the three Powers could
 421
 Mr. Goulburn  agreed with the hon. Member for Limerick that the expense would be considerably increased, and called upon the noble Lord to give some estimate of what the expense would be under this Bill.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what the scientific men did, and he should like to see a detached Report of the manner in which this sum was to be expended.
 Mr. Charles Wood : there had been excellent charts made of various parts of the coast of England and America, from actual surveys; a long series also of observations on the tides had been instituted, the Observatory at Greenwich was included, and many improvements which had been made in navigation; experiments also had been made to secure timber from the dry rot, and various other objects of importance were paid for by this vote though it was impracticable to lay a detailed account of them before the House.
 Mr. Charles Wood  explained that a portion of this sum was allotted for the half-pay of pursers, but the sum proposed to give them would be saved by an improved method of victualling the navy.
 Sir Edward Codrington  thought it was a great injustice to put officers of the rank of purser, who sat at the table of the admiral, on the half-pay of only 3 s. s. s. 442 l.; l. l. s, l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l., l., 443 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. s. d. l. s. l. l. s. s. l. s. s. s. l. 444
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  being one of the representatives of Durham, he trusted the House would permit him to offer a few words on a subject in which he and his constituents were so deeply concerned. He hoped this Bill would do nothing to lower the dignity of the Church. He was persuaded, that neither the noble Lord nor the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer could have, personally, any such intention; but such would be the consequence if they narrowed the income of the Bishop of Durham to 9,000 l. 445 l. l. l.
 Mr. French  considered this as the most objectionable clause in the Bill. Not only was the constitutional mode of appointing the constables departed from, but an unlimited power of augmentation, and, as far as the counties were concerned, an unlimited power of taxation was placed in the hands of the Lord-lieutenant. Hitherto the exercise of this power had been limited; it depended on a requisition signed by a certain number of Magistrates—the augmented force was paid for by the inhabitants of the disturbed district, and was reduced when tranquillity was restored; but by this Bill, as it at present stood, those parts of the country where no disturbance had taken place were to be saddled with a portion of the expense, and the augmented force was to remain a permanent charge on the country. To remedy his he proposed an amendment clause.
 Mr. French  wished to have the words, exempting the expense of removing trans-
 439 l.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the principle of issuing money for such purposes out of the consolidated fund. He conceived there was no control over the expenditure, and he should next year move that the estimates for the police be laid before the House, and a vote taken for them as was done with the army and navy.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted the force of what fell from the hon. Member for Roscommon, and assured him it should be attended to. Under these circumstances, he trusted the amendment would not be pressed.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  agreed with everything that fell from the hon. Member for Middlesex, but if his principle were good for anything next year he ought to apply
 440 l. l.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  proposed, as an amendment, that in every borough in which the mayor shall not have been elected before the passing of the Act, the council shall, on the 21st day after passing of this Act, proceed to elect a mayor; and in case of an equality of votes, in any election of mayor, the Alderman who shall have been elected by the greatest number of votes, shall have a second or casting vote.
 The Attorney-General  objected to the amendment, on the ground that the constituency of a place had not in contemplation, when they voted for a particular councillor, the intrusting him with such power. The clause, as it stood in the Bill, would be only applicable to the boroughs of Newport and Rochester.
 Viscount Morpeth  thought there was no reason for national jealousy on such a subject, as the heads of police in London were Irishmen.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the expense would not be increased by the Bill.
 Viscount Morpeth  was perfectly willing to adopt that portion of the amendment of his hon. Friend which related to the apportioning the expense of any extra force on the districts for which it was required, and would be prepared to add words to that effect to the 22d Clause, which was the one settling how the expenses of this body were to be defrayed; but he could not agree to that part of the amendment which
 441
 Lord Stanley  hoped that his hon. Friend the Under-Secretary for the Colonies, would allow him to interpose for a few minutes between himself and the House. As a member of Lord Grey's Administration,
 468 469 "You will distinctly understand that you will not be authorized to consent to any ordinance creating an intermediate state of a different description, or subjected to the restrictions of a different nature from those contemplated by Parliament. The term of apprenticeship may be shortened; the hours of compulsory labour may be fewer; the burden imposed may be made lighter; but no distinctions must be allowed to be drawn between those at present free, and those at present slaves, of a different character from, or to a greater extent than those which have been sanctioned by Parliament. As you will consider yourself precluded by your instructions from sanctioning any ordinance which may prolong the duration of the intermediate state, or impose any heavier burdens upon those who are in that state, so you will like wise withhold your sanction from any ordinance perpetuating or continuing, after the termination of that period, any distinctions or exclusions arising out of a previous servile condition." 470 "I am happy to be able to inform you that a Bill for giving effect to the provisions of the British Art for the Abolition of Slavery having been introduced into the House of Assembly, has passed through all its stages except the last; that it stands for a third reading to-morrow, which it is considered will be a mere matter of form, and I hope to be able to announce its having finally passed the House, in a postscript. It has of course been my anxious endeavour, in the absence of any positive instructions from you, to induce the Members of this House, with whom I have had personal communication, to bring forward such a measure as should adhere as strictly as possible to the principles of the British Act, and, at the same time, as far as they are at present in a condition to do so, to develope such of the details as are left to them, with a view to giving effect to its provisions.' "I do not think, upon the first point, you will find the slightest cause of complaint, as the majority so completely entered into my view of the importance, in the instance, of shewing their acquiescence in the principle, that, in general, they have adopted the very words of the British Act. If upon the second point their labours should not appear in all respects efficient, it is not from any indisposition to undertake the task required of them, when there shall have been more time given them for consideration;—but from a desire to postpone any minor points upon which there might be a difference of opinion amongst themselves to the great object of tendering to the British Government this substantial proof of co-operation on their part, and which they hope will give them a claim to the favourable consideration of a memorial they intend to forward home, asking to be allowed to make some alteration in the details;—upon the expediency or practicability of which, as soon as I am made acquainted with them, I have pro-
 471 "I can now release you from your further attendance here, and in thus closing a Session of almost unequalled length, and certainly of unparalleled importance, I look forward with satisfaction to your immediate return to your homes, whereby you will be enabled to diffuse through your several parishes, the most accurate information upon those difficult and delicate topics which have here engaged your attention, and upon which it is so desirable to avert misapprehension. You may rely upon my co-operation, by every personal exertion in my power, to secure the perfect understanding of the real truth. Under the peculiar circumstances of the season, I have, therefore, thought it better no longer to protract this Session, though there may still be some few measures not completed, which might otherwise have accompanied the settlement of that great question, the consideration of which has engrossed so much of your time, and which you have happily brought to a successful termination; for which I must now offer you my thanks and congratulations. 472 473
 Mr. O'Connell :—Sir, I regret exceedingly, that the Hon. Bart, should have made it necessary for me to intrude upon the House at all. He has censured (though certainly in very complimentary language to myself) the agitation of this question elsewhere; and yet I think enough has fallen from the hon. Bart, himself to justify agitation out of the House on this subject. Sir, it is true, I did say at Birmingham, that, under the working of the apprenticeship system, the negroes were worse off sometimes than they were in a state of slavery. I did not say that lightly. I had the documents before me from faith-worthy persons, showing that what it was the interest of the slave-owners to do was done; it is their interest to make the negro work out his full time; for instance, out of an able-bodied negro the owner formerly got twelve years' labour; but he had the twelve years to get it out of him; but now, the power of the owner lasting only for six years, it is his interest to get out as much of the twelve years' labour as possible in that six years. That is the natural consequence; it is the natural effect of the system; he has none, not the slightest interest in the negro after the expiration of the six years' apprenticeship, and he has no object therefore hut to get as much out of him as possible in that time, Again,
 485 486
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that the double assessment, when 9th George 4th was in operation, was the cause of much complaint The road assessment was the one most complained of. With respect to the 9th George 4th, if it worked well at present, it was because it was unconnected with politics, and confined to the mere business of paving, lighting, and cleansing the borough; but the present Bill would introduce all sorts of political subjects with discussion, and exclude real business.
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  said, from the borough he represented a petition had been forwarded to the House complaining of the excessive taxation of the county of the town for Grand Jury rates and assessments. The situation of petitioners was very serious, as they had to pay, as a county, Grand Jury assessments, and also borough rates. The corporation had done
 499
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to the heavy expense that this power of rating would cast upon a borough where no corporate property existed. He wished to know how the salaries of the mayor and other corporate officers were to be provided, where there was no corporate property, and asked whether a rate was to be levied for the purpose?
 Mr. Lefroy  said, that in seventeen of these boroughs there was no corporate property whatever; and how, he would ask, were the expenses to be provided in such cases?
 Mr. William S. O Brien  said this clause referred to collusive sales of corporate property. He wished to know whether such sales as that which took place in Cashel were to be confirmed by any part of this Bill?
 Colonel Damson Darner  declared that Portarlington, the borough he had the honour to represent, having been harshly, and he thought unjustly, treated in the Report of the Commissioners, which report was commented upon and urged as authority by the learned Gentleman the Attorney-General for Ireland, he begged distinctly to declare, in the name of his noble relation, as well as in that of the corporation of the borough he had the honour to represent, that they did not shrink from any inquiry, and were desirous every investigation respecting the sales and leases of property alluded to in the report of the commissioners should take place, although the clause in question would not have a retrospective effect.
 Mr. Randall Punkett  begged to be allowed to suggest upon this clause, which contained an especial "provision" on behalf of Dublin, an alteration having reference, he admitted, principally to Drogheda, but so framed as to be applicable to any borough similarly situated. If he was asked why he did not bring it on before, he could only say that a very severe illness prevented
 501 quoad
 Mr. F. Maule  thought the motion just made by the hon. Member for Southwark seemed intended as a censure upon His Majesty's Ministers; but he begged to assure the hon. Member that there was considerable difficulty in making up the return, consequently more time was required.
 Mr. Jephson  objected to the mode of assessment proposed by the Bill, and thought it most unfair to apply the principle of the 9th George 4th, to this measure. If the 9th George 4th had never been passed, the Attorney-General could scarcely have ventured to introduce such a principle into the Corporate Reform Bill at present. The learned Gentleman professed to take the English Bill as the basis of this measure, but in England a totally different mode of assessment was resorted to. Suppose the town-council in an Irish borough were to make a very high valuation, there was no appeal from that valuation except to the town-council itself. This surely was too absurd. What he (Mr. Jephson) proposed was, that property should be liable to assessment according to its value, and not by the ascending scale, 9th George 4th.
 Mr. Harvey  thought the hon. Member for Finsbury made a considerable draught upon the courtesy of the House when he expected twenty-one hon. Members would follow his example, and give up their motions. If he (Mr. Harvey) consented to withdraw his motion, it was because he could not help it. He had moved for a return of the total number of persons qualified to vote for Members of Parliament and town-councillors in each of the cities and boroughs of England, which return was ordered by the House on the 11th of February, but had not been laid on the table yet. He should therefore move that the order of the House of that date be complied with forthwith.
 Mr. Harvey  would not press the motion if it could be shown that due diligence had been used to get up the return.
 Mr. Shaw  would merely point out that this and the two following clauses contained one of the most objectionable principles of the present measure, and though the English Act had the same provision, the objection rested on the essential difference between the state of society in the two countries. The effect of these clauses in Ireland would be to vest in the hands of a domineering faction, such as would constitute the town-councils generally under the Bill, the power at their will and pleasure to make bye-laws, and to impose penalties upon, mulct in pecuniary tines, the party opposed to them in politics; and who, while over-borne by mere numerical strength, would prevent the strongest temptation, in point of wealth and station, to the unjust and arbitrary exercise of such a power.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the words in the 86th clause, "other municipal expenses." might bear a very large signification; and by the effect of the 88th clause, the borough rate might be levied for all "the purposes aforesaid," so that these "other municipal expenses" were among such "purposes" and left it in the discretion of the town-council to levy a rate to an almost unlimited extent. He (Mr. Shaw) would also observe, that the appeal which the corresponding clause in the English Act gave from the town-council with respect to the borough rate, was omitted from this clause.
 Mr. Shaw  said, if the object of the amendment was, that the present Bill should leave the law as it found it, without in any degree affecting the rights of parties as they now stood at law, he could not object to it.
 Mr. Shaw  thought this an improvement in principle, but it must be admitted, that in this, as in many other instances under the Bill, his side of the House, in choosing the lesser of two evils, had consented to throw a great accession of patronage into the hands of his Majesty's Government.
 The Speaker  remarked, that before the discussion on the petition should go further, it was desirable that the House should be aware, that it would preclude the possibility of the important business on the paper for to-day being proceeded with.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the present moment was the time to deal with this matter. The petitioners merely claimed from the Government an act of justice, and to that they were entitled. He complained, that pending a motion, of which last session he had given notice, with reference to this matter, Mr. Jeremie had been appointed and sent out to the judgeship at Ceylon, the Government well knowing at the time that it was his (Mr. Roebuck's) intention to make such a motion. Not only was this the case, but Mr. Jeremie had actually been sent out of this country against his will, for he sought for and wished the inquiry. This fact had been kept back—there had in this instance been a  suppressio veri l.
 Mr. Wilks  thought the contents of the petition well deserving the immediate attention of the House. It was impossible that the statements which had been made, could be allowed to go forth to the public without observation.
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition from M. H. Hitié and M. L. Letond, agents in this country for the inhabitants of the Mauritius, complaining of having been obliged to pay l,000 l. 448 l.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, that the appeal was omitted because there was a reference to the 9th George 4th, which gave an appeal. But if the right hon. Gentleman did not think that sufficient, he (Mr. O'Loghlen) would introduce an amendment in the Report.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, it was not intended
 498 1. l.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  saw nothing in the state of society in Ireland to warrant him in departing from the principle laid down in the English Bill.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  proposed an amendment to the effect that for the future the divisional justices of police of the city of Dublin, under the 48th George 3d. cap. 140, should be appointed by the Lord Lieutenant instead of by the new town-council.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, certainly not. He intended to propose an amendment to the clause, to the effect that the validity of the sale should be liable to question by the town council of the borough as fully as if this Bill had never passed.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  did not think that a high salary, or any salary at all, in many instances, would be necessary for the corporate officers.
 Mr. Borthwick  did not consider himself a party to the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He did not feel bound to deprive himself of the opportunity of bringing this motion before the House if that hon. Member had thought proper to abandon his.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, he was not precluded from proceeding, on a former occasion, by the absence of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) or his party, but by the premeditated and tricking devices of the Government, who availed themselves of every accident to suppress his motion. To this Ministerial and unworthy manœuvering —this political jockeyship—he would not yield. The hon. Member then proceeded as follows:—"Sir, of the large sum of money which has been awarded to the late proprietors of slaves, in order that they might, under the provisions of the Abolition Act, relinquish their claim to that description of property, one tithe, or about 2,000,000 l. bonâ fide 493 l. 494 bona fide bonâ fide 495
 Mr. Borthwick  defended the West-Indian planters from the charges of cruelty and oppression which were but too generally brought against them. He would most cordially support the motion for a Committee, because he thought it to be the duty of Parliament to inquire into the real truth of the matter, and see whether there was any foundation for the statements circulated through the country by the anti-slavery party, to the disadvantage and discredit of the West-Indian planters.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that, under any other circumstances, he should have had no hesitation to postpone his motion. Let it be remembered, however, that he had in vain essayed on several occasions to bring his motion before the House, and that he had been taunted because he was defeated by some hon. Members on the other side of the House, who took advantage of an accident of their own creation, and counted out the
 491
 Mr. Borthwick : Yes
 Mr. Forvell Buxton  rose to move for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the working of the apprenticeship System in the colonies, the condition of the apprentices, and the laws and regulations respecting them. What he had recently heard from his hon. Friend of the intention of Ministers to bring in a Bill to compel the continuance of that Act which had been allowed to expire in Jamaica, gave him the greatest satisfaction. He had not until very lately expected that this course would be pursued, and in his opinion it did the Government the highest possible credit. It would not be necessary for him to enter at much length into the subject, as the reasons for a Committee must be obvious to all. The very importance of the case would jus-
 451 452 l., 453 George Grey 454 But when the British Government gravely puts forward a claim to the gratitude of a class of his Majesty's subjects, whose property has been nominally paid for, but substantially confiscated; and when this claim, so ill-founded, is daily reiterated as an excuse for further aggression, the House owe it to themselves, and to their constituents, not to deny the acknowledgment of obligation, but most solemnly and distinctly to declare their sense of a continued succession of injuries, aggravated by misrepresentation and calumny, and consummated by an act of the most unparalleled spoliation ever committed by the Government of any country upon its own subjects. George Grey 455 456 457 George Grey "Nor to authorize any court, judge, or justice of the peace, to punish any such apprenticed labourer, being a female, for any offence by
 458 "A much more serious breach, not only of the spirit, but even the letter of the law, has been committed under the supposed authority of the Act in question. His Excellency alludes to the rule permitting the use of the whip upon women, by the superintendents of treadmills; this is a direct infringement of the 21st section of the Abolition Act, which expressly forbids the whipping of women under any circumstances." "The whipping of females, you were informed by me officially, was an illegal practice, and I called upon you to make enactments to put an end to conduct so repugnant to humanity, and so contrary to law." l. 459 G. Grey 460 "That though many have competencies which enable them to live well with economy in this country, yet the great mass of planters are men of oppressed fortunes, consigned by debt to unremitting drudgery in the colonies with a hope, which eternally mocks their grasp, of happier days, and a release from their embarrassments." "In the course of twenty years, 177 estates in Jamaica have been sold for the payment of debts: fifty-five estates have been thrown up, and ninety-two are still in the hands of creditors; and it appears from a Return made by the Provost Marshal, that 80,121 executions, amounting to 22,563,786/. sterling, have been lodged in his office in the course of twenty years." "Every British merchant holding securities on real estates, is filing bills in Chancery to foreclose, although when he has obtained his decree he hesitates to enforce it, because he must himself become the proprietor of the plantation, of which, from fatal experience, he knows the consequence. No one will advance money to relieve those whose debts approach half the value of their property, nor even lend a moderate sum without a judgment in ejectment and release of errors, that at a moment's notice he may lake out a writ of possession, and enter on the plantation of his unfortunate debtors. Sheriffs' officers and collectors of taxes are everywhere offering for sale the property of individuals who have seen better days, and now must view their effects purchased for half their real value, and at less than half the original cost. Far from having the reversion expected, the creditor is often not satisfied. All kind of credit is at an end. If litigation in the courts of common law has diminished, it is not from increased ability to perform contracts, but from confidence having ceased,
 461 "Within the last five or six years, 65 estates had been abandoned, 32 sold under decrees of Chancery, and 115 more respecting which suits in Chancery were depending, and many more bills preparing. From these facts," they go on to say, "the House will be able to judge to what an alarming extent the distresses of the sugar planters have already reached, and with what accelerated rapidity they are now increasing; for the sugar estates lately brought to sale, and now in the Court of Chancery in this island and in England, amount to about one-fourth of the whole number of the colony. "Your Committee have to lament that ruin has already taken place; and they must, under a continuance of the present circumstances, anticipate very shortly the bankruptcy of a much larger part of the community, and, in the course of a few years, of the whole class of sugar planters, excepting, perhaps, a very few in peculiar circumstances. "On the 15th of June, 1812, a 'Representation of the Assembly of Jamaica to the King,' was laid on the table of the House of Commons, and printed by its order. It is numbered 279. In this representation similar complaints to those already specified were renewed. They there speak of their ruin as complete. 'For two years has this most calamitous state been endured; the crops of 1809 and 1810 are in a state worse than useless; a third draws towards its close, with no appearance of amendment or alteration. The crop is gathering in' (they are speaking here of coffee), 'but its exuberance excites no sensation of pleasure.' If the slaves of the coffee plantations are offered for sale, who they ask, can buy them? 'The proprietors of the old sugar estates are themselves sinking under accumulated burdens. If ever there was a case demanding the active and immediate interference of a paternal government, to relieve the burdens and alleviate the calamities of a most useful and valuable class of subjects, it is that of the coffee planters of Jamaica.' "The distresses of our constituents are not confined to the coffee planters. The growers of cotton, pimento, and the minor staples, are also suffering severely from their depreciation. The sugar planters, however, call more especially for protection and interposition. The ruin of the original possessors has been gradually completed. Estate after estate has passed
 462 "The alarming and unprecedented state of distress in which the whole British West India interest is at this time involved," the petitioners say, justifies them in imploring Parliament "to adopt prompt and effectual measures of relief in order to preserve them from inevitable ruin." 463 "We possess with our property in the West India colonies, the means of ascertaining the actual state of the negro population. We know, and we are ready to prove what we assert, in the face of our country, our well-grounded conviction, that the speedy annihilation of slavery would be attended with the devastation of the West-India colonies, with loss of lives and property to the white inhabitants, with inevitable distress and misery to the black population; and with a fatal shock to the commercial credit of this empire." 464 John Rae Reid 465 George Grey: 466 467 l.; l. l. l.
 Mr. Wakley  rose amidst loud cries of "Order." He wished the House to remember, that when his name was called he consented to postpone his motion, but it was with the understanding that all the hon. Members who followed him should do the same, to enable the House to come to more pressing and important business. He would therefore ask whether it was fair for the hon. Member to take this course after several hon. Members had acted upon that understanding.
 Mr. Wakley  was only one out of twenty-two Members who had notices of motion on the paper for that night; if those who were to follow him would give way, he had no objection. His motion was one of great importance, and he thought it probable, that if he proceeded, it would be carried by acclamation, at least by the hon. Members on his side of the House, seeing that its object was the repeal of the Septennial Act.
 Mr. Wyse  objected to the clashing there would be between the Grand Jury presentment and the borough rate, and instanced the case of the city of Waterford, in proof of his argument.
 Mr. William E. Gladstone  said, that as Government had agreed to the motion for a Committee, it would be well that its object should be clearly understood. His principal motive in rising, however, was to remark on some of the observations that had fallen from some hon. Gentlemen in the course of this debate, and to counteract, if possible, the impression, unfavourable as it was, which was likely to be produced with regard to the West-Indian body. Allusion had been made in the course of the debate to the grant of compensation-money voted to the slave owners; and the term "enormous" had been applied to it. Now he had no objection that it should be called liberal, munificent, or any thing else which might serve to express the disinterested and noble generosity of the people of this country in making it. But the term "enormous" appeared to imply a disproportion to the value of the consideration which was given up for it: and when it was considered that, in the worst of times, the value of slave property was estimated at 45.000,000 l., l. 487 488 489
 Sir George Grey  did not rise to offer any opposition to the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Weymouth. When his hon. Friend brought forward his motion last year, on this subject, it was connected
 474 bona fide 475 476 477 478 "The Reports from the special justices for the last month show a very considerable decrease of punishment, the total number of cases for which whipping was adjudged being only forty-nine. I look forward with confidence to a still further diminution, and even to an ultimate disuse of the lash in this colony altogether, except by the sentence of the Criminal Courts for the repression of theft. Every successive month, since the abolition of slavery, the number of individuals so punished has gradually diminished, as to entitle me to be very sanguine in my expectations that the period is not far distant when this mode of punishment will be all but extinguished." 479 480 Your Lordship will be gratified to know that during the last month (November), the Custom-house Returns shew that, from this river, 8,211 hogsheads of sugar have been exported; whereas, upon an average of the three last years of slavery, during the same month, not more than 5,610 hogsheads passed through the Custom-house. This colony never was in a more prosperous and nourishing condition; and I believe, with very few exceptions, the dissatisfaction of the planters, at the late change, is fast wearing away. In proof of the rapid advance of a moral feeling amongst the apprenticed labourers, and of their anxiety to raise themselves in the scale of civilization, I take the liberty of laying before your Lordship an extract from last Saturday's  Gazette, 481 482 483 484
 Sir George Grey ; Sir, the hon. Member has called upon me to state distinctly the policy which the Government means to pursue with regard to the Mauritius. I answer, the only policy which they can pursue, viz., to carry out faithfully and effectually the provisions of the Abolition Act: That Act providing how the compensation should be paid, through machinery which it also creates. The hon. Member had asked why the mercy and the justice which pleaded so powerfully for injured Africa in the West Indies should have slumbered with respect to the Mauritius? Sir, I deny that they have so slumbered, and if he had been in the House at the time this Act was passed, or had he taken the trouble to look through that Act before he brought forward this motion, he would have discovered that the very case he alludes to was brought forward at that time by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets; and that the 46th clause was introduced into the Act for the express pur-
 496
 Sir George Grey  thought the hon. Member for Evesham should bear in mind the causes of the delay of which he com-
 492
 Sir George Grey  said, that he could not but thank the hon. Member for Middlesex for having furnished him with a copy of the petition which he had just presented to the House; at the same time he was bound to say, that the statements contained in the petition were wholly at variance with the facts of the case. He invited the hon. Member for Middlesex to an inspection of the correspondence, from which he would see the variance in the statement from the
 449
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, the hon. Gentleman had an undoubted right to proceed if he liked; but as twenty Gentlemen who had precedence of him waved their right, he thought he might also.
 Sir John Hobhouse  begged to ask the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) not to bring forward his motion (for the repeal of the Septennial Act) in the absence of his noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, as upon it there ought to be a full and fair discussion.
 Sir John Hobhouse,  in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury, begged hon. Members to cast their eyes down the list of notices, and he was sure they would admit that there was no business of such pressing importance as the Corporation Bill for Ireland.
 Sir John Hobhouse : Then you mean to proceed with your motion?
 Sir John R. Reid  said, that interested in this subject as he was, he could not but deprecate the manner in which the complaints of the anti-slavery party had been made, and he would ask why it was that they had not been brought forward openly and boldly, instead of surreptitiously? He was convinced there was no people on the face of the earth—not even the British people themselves—who enjoyed greater happiness than the negroes.
 Sir Robert Peel  had scarcely ever witnessed more forbearance than had been shown by the hon. Member for Evesham. He had frequently given notice of this motion, to which he attached great importance, and as he had not made himself a party to the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury, who had waved his right, that hon. Member ought not to have interrupted him. The hon. Member for Evesham was in possession of the House, and he would appeal to the Chair whether he had not a right to proceed with his motion.
 Sir Robert Peel  imagined, the clause as it stood would subject the borough to a borough rate, and also to a Grand Jury assessment.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the objection was not so much to the amount of the assessment as the vexation attendant upon two assessments.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there was a clear distinction between a borough rate and a borough fund. He would call upon hon. Gentlemen who had local interests to protect to look well to this difference. The 86th clause provided that in case the borough fund should be more than sufficient, the surplus should be applied for the public benefit of the inhabitants. To this he did not object so far as by the borough fund was to be understood corporate property, but then the last words of the 88th clause provided that all sums levied in pursuance of such borough rate should be paid over to the account of the borough fund; so that the rate would go to the making up of the borough fund as well as the corporate property. This clearly could not have been intended, and ought to be provided against.
 Viscount Howick  regretted that the hon. Member for Evesham had not complied with the general wish of the House; but he feared that if he persisted in his motion, in strict order he must be allowed to proceed, though it might prevent the House from going into other very urgent business.
 Sir George Clerk  wished to say a word upon the question, as he was one of those Members who had been upon the Committee, and had taken a different view of the question from the hon. and gallant Member. He was surprised at the existence of any doubt on the subject, for he had never heard the right of a chairman to a second vote put forward before. There were other opinions of equal weight with those of Mr. Sherwin—there was the opinion of Mr. Dwarris, who said the chairman of a Committee was placed in the same situation as the Speaker of the House. In the case of Election Committees, where the Members sat as a jury, the power was expressly given to the chairman to give a casting vote in the absence of a Member, and the votes being equal. Now, if the general law had been such as laid down by Mr. Sherwin, it would be perfectly unnecessary to introduce such a clause; but, according to the opinion of all other writers on this subject, the Chairman of the Committee was precisely in the same situation as the Speaker. He begged leave to state, that in the early period of the History of Parliament a doubt existed as to the right of the Speaker to give two votes, for he found in 1601, upon a division, the number being, noes 106, ayes 105; the ayes knowing which way the Speaker's mind leaned, called upon him for his casting vote. Upon this being objected to, the ayes said that they had, by the Queen's pleasure, been allowed to elect a Speaker, and that he had the right to give the casting vote; the Speaker and Sir Walter Raleigh were of opinion that he could not do so. With regard to the other question as to expense, he thought that great expense would be spared by adjourning to the time the Committee had done. He trusted, therefore, that the House would rest satisfied with the decision of the Committee.
 Mr. Denison  concurred in the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite, and as he had been appealed to by him, he did not hesitate in stating, that he did not recollect an instance where the chairman left the chair for the purpose of voting, and he considered that the only case in which he had a casting vote was where the numbers on both sides were equal. That was the custom which he had always seen observed.
 Mr. Wallace  presented the following Petitions from 350 individuals, the tenants of the hon. and gallant Member for the county of Carlow:
 Colonel Bruen  said, he scarcely felt himself called upon to make any reply to the statements contained in the petition from Mr. Woodcock. As, however, that gentleman was an old acquaintance, he would say a few words, more for the sake of letting the House know who the petitioner was,
 509 l s l s 510 l s
 Mr. O'Connell : When the hon Member claims courtesy, he should take care that he shews it himself. I did not retire to prevent the hon. Member for Bradford from making a speech, but I withdrew at the suggestion of the Speaker.
 Colonel Bruen  said, that he apprehended that he was in order in making an observation on that point. He would then tell the hon. and learned Member that the statements made respecting him were without foundation. These were only a number of old stories which had often been brought forward during the last four or five years, and had repeatedly been shown to be groundless. He had no hesitation in saying that the story about his persecuting his tenants in consequence of their voting against him was totally false. The hon. and learned Member had alluded to his hon. Colleague (Mr. Kavanagh) as being a good landlord, and the consequence was, that he was supported by the whole of his tenantry; but that was not the case with him. He admitted that his hon. Friend was deservedly respected as a good landlord; but it was notorious that many more of his hon. Friend's tenants voted against him than his (Col. Bruen's) tenant's voted against him.
 Mr. Wallace  wished to assure the hon. and gallant Member, that he had not brought forward the motion of which he had given notice, because he had no opportunity of doing so; but he would arrange with the hon. Gentleman, in the course of the evening, to fix on the first convenient day.
On Schedule C— Mr. Shaw  said, that he should be very glad to know the principle upon which this Schedule was formed? As to Schedules A and B, the first (A) was composed of places containing above 20,000 souls—and B, of those above 15,000; but with regard to Schedule C, it was impossible to discover any principle upon which it was drawn up. [[Viscount  Morpeth:
 Mr. Shaw  could not understand why Midleton should be omitted if Belturbet were to be kept, inasmuch as they appeared in the same list in the Report, but Midleton was above Belturbet.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that although the population was not so large, they were in the possession of property to the amount in value of 200 l
 Mr. Shaw  said, that the Commissioners reported but 9 l
 Mr. John Young  stated, that the Corporation of Belturbet was practically extinct. The late provost had died more than a year ago; but since, the Report of the Commissioners had been drawn up, and so many of the forms had been disused, that the patron Lord Belmore, as he was informed, found he had not the power of re-appointment to the office, which remained vacant. Of the 2,062 persons who were returned as forming the population of Belturbet, nearly 500 lived in a different parish, out of the corporation bounds, and divided from them by the river. Certainly, no town of equal size in Ireland contained a greater number of respectable inhabitants, every way qualified to possess the privileges and discharge the trusts of a Corporation; but he rather thought that if their opinion were ascertained, the majority of the better and more independent householders would be glad to be without the necessity of frequent elections, with their accompanying excitement and bad feeling, and to have the property of the corporation vested, as it ought to be, in Commissioners, for the use and benefit of householders, for charitable purposes, and the general improvement of the town.
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  begged that the Committee would just observe the extreme absurdity of giving a Corporation to Navan, which had neither tolls nor corporate property. It once had both, he admitted; that is, it certainly had tolls, but the limits of the corporate property and the titles to it, in the Corporation, were very undefined and obscure. Navan had a Bienzi, a highly patriotic individual, of the name of Farrell, he believed, who, in 1827, got rid of the tolls altogether; and the same pa-
 516 l l
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  said, the question was not whether Navan had considerable property, but whether Navan was entitled to collect tolls. It was the opinion of Sir Anthony Hart that tolls should be devoted to public purposes, and that a receiver should be appointed. If tolls were to be so applied, instead of being placed in the hands of corporators, they would unquestionably be paid.
 Mr. Shaw  did not think any person apart from political feeling, would deny that the abolition of tolls would be a greater public benefit to the place where they were collected, and particularly to the lower orders, than any possible appropriation of tax that could be devised.
 Mr. O'Connell  entirely agreed that tolls should be abolished where the party did not get value, but he thought they would be found extremely useful under proper management, and if applied, for instance, in establishing markets and hambles, and
 517
 Mr. Richards  contended that the amount collected was uncertain. Now, if it were necessary to hare market-houses, and scales for weighing goods for sale, established, why should not the inhabitants assess themselves for that purpose, and not do so by making persons who came to sell their goods pay toll, over which they had no check, and which experience had shown was open to considerable abuse and misapplication? As to the hon. and learned Gentleman insinuating that "Protestants" misapplied those funds, did he mean to say that avarice was less predominant in persons of other persuasions? He was disposed to think that the Catholic would act in precisely the same way. He did not mean to deny that abuse to a certain extent prevailed; but what he contended was, that Roman Catholics, placed in similar circumstances—he, however, in saying this, meant no disrespect to the religion—would be found to misapply funds fully to the same extent they were now misapplied, and that it was not at all to be wondered at from the nature of toll itself and from the way in which it was managed, or rather mismanaged, it should be in some degree misapplied. He, therefore, thought that tolls should be altogether abolished.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he did not mean to allude to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bradford [ Cries of Spoke hœret laleri lethalis arundo 513
 Colonel Bruen  could not help adverting to the manner in which the rules of the House were disregarded by the hon. and learned Gentleman, while, at the same time, he complained of others being disorderly. It appeared, then, that the hon. and learned Gentleman might get up and make attacks on the character of Gentlemen on his (Colonel Bruen's) side of the House, and when they rose to vindicate themselves from the aspersions cast upon them, they were interrupted by Gentlemen opposite.
  Mr. O'Connell  said, that before this Bill proceeded any further, he wished to know whether his hon. Friend would have any objection to let it be sent to a Select Committee? The subject to which this Bill referred was one of considerable importance to Ireland, and although it did not go the length it proposed, yet he must confess it contained many most excellent principles and practical enactments. One of these would be the digesting of that incongruous heap of grand-jury enactments, amounting to upwards of 100 Acts, forty-seven of which were in existence, the others more or less repealed, some of them directly, and some in the worst possible way—by implication. In such a state the grand-jury laws ought not to be allowed to remain. Another advantage, and a very important one, was the reduction that would take place in taxation. The money levied every year in Ireland by means of grand jury presentments amounted to no less a sum than 900,000 l l l 521
 Mr. Jephson : The power hitherto possessed by grand juries is by this Bill taken away from them. I cannot but consider
 522
 Viscount Morpeth : I am very sorry I have not the power to consent to this clause. I mean no disrespect to the grand juries in removing from them their fiscal powers but, at the same time, I cannot help remarking that in the course of the discussion in the Committee upon this Bill, it was admitted that the power of deciding the amount of the police force, and the levying various sums for the payment thereof, should be placed in the hands of the executive government, and not in those of the grand juries. The clause brought in by my hon. Friend opposite gives the power of superintending the arrangements, disputing the items, and altering them to the grand jury. The hon. Member, too, gives a power to the judge of sanctioning the objections of the grand jury. Provided the sums presented are not warranted by law, the judge now has that power. But I could not think it right to constitute the judge of assize the person to determine
 523
 Dr. Baldwin : I concur in opinion with the noble Lord. I think it is much better to leave the entire business in the hands of the executive government, than to trust it to grand juries who are irresponsible, and to judges equally irresponsible. I do not approve of the Bill altogether, except so far as it is an improvement upon the mode of managing the constabulary force. The time, I hope, however, is not far distant when the Government in Ireland will not be permitted to have a power entirely arbitrary. The time, I hope, is not far distant when both parties that are now contending in Ireland, and to whom the country is a common victim, and to whom, too, the prosperity of the country is sacrificed, will be completely quieted, and both made subject to the common law of England.
 Mr. Hume : The check there ought to be on those accounts is, a return to this House of all the necessary expenses of the police establishment. I do not think that the judges ought to have any thing to do with it. What I must remark upon the clause now before the House is this, by the previous clauses full authority is given to the Lord-Lieutenant, both as to the regulation and number of the police; and this clause, therefore, is rather in contradiction to the rest of the Bill.
 Sir Robert Ferguson : The powers which the grand juries have had hitherto, should, at least, be continued to them. In the county Donegal, it occurred at the last assizes, that the grand jury were required to pay an account incurred very nearly ten years ago. This account was incurred under the Peace Preservation Act; and for such an account it was only necessary to have it vouched upon affidavit before a magistrate, that 700 l
 Mr. Randall Plunkett : I have had some experience upon grand juries, and I must say, that I never knew a body of men look with more jealousy to the items of expenditure submitted to them. I have always had a difficulty in getting them to expend enough. If they have a fault it is
 524
 Viscount Morpeth : I have only to observe, when it is said by the hon. Member opposite that grand juries are too parsimonious, that he gives a good reason why they should not have that power over the police which this clause would give them. Our wish is to make the police force as perfectly efficient as possible. As the English Members have been desired to look at this Bill, because it enacts that one-half of the expenses is to be paid out of the consolidated fund, and the other half by the county, I would say that, if you enable grand juries to disallow certain portions of the expenses they may throw upon the consolidated fund more than a fair share of those expenses.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French : I assure the noble Lord he is entirely mistaken, both as to the object and the meaning of the clause brought forward by my hon. Friend the Member for Mallow; the objection of the noble Lord is, that it probably would lead the grand juries to reject certain items, for the purpose of lightening the expense on their counties, through view of their anxiety to lighten the burdens on their counties, is certainly not in accordance with that wasteful expenditure which the noble Lord, in common with others at an earlier period of the night, seemed inclined to attribute to them; but if the noble Lord had attentively considered the clause, he would have discovered that were they even inclined to act in a manner which had he known them he would not have suspected them of a disposition so to do; no such power was vested or proposed to be vested in them; all sought for in this clause was, in the event of a case being made out to the satisfaction of the judge, of mistake, overcharge, or fraud, the power should be given to him of examining into, and if he thought fit, disallowing the item objected to; the power to object was to be vested in the grand jury; the power to decide in the judge. In addition to the circumstances brought forward by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Derry, proving the necessity of some such power as this sought for to be given, I will mention what had occurred in the county I had the honour of representing some few years ago. At the assizes, on looking over the certificate for the constabulary expense sent down from the
 525
 Mr. Francis Baring : No injury occurred in the instance adverted to by the hon. Gentleman. There the mistake was rectified. The accounts are here to be laid before the Inspector, and the presentment is to be made in consequence. The presentment is to be made upon the authority of a responsible government officer. I certainly must object to the powers being given to a grand jury after the expense has been incurred to say, that it was one that ought not to have been incurred. With every respect for the grand juries, I must say, that I am afraid they would throw the payment of this force upon the public.
 Colonel Perceval : The Secretary of the Treasury, it appears, would not desire to leave any power to the grand jury of even making an appeal to the judge, that judge
 526
 Mr. Sharman Crawford : The presenting Grand Juries should, in my opinion, be a responsible body; and if they were so, I would be entirely opposed to the power being conferred upon the Lord-Lieutenant of forcing the presenting body. But, in the present state of the grand juries, I am apprehensive that the clause of the hon. Member for Mallow would not remedy the mischief complained of, and it would be in collision with the other clauses of this Act. I do not see any benefit to be gained by leaving the matter to the decision of the judge. If the clause were so worded as to be consistent with the other provisions of the Bill, and to give a controlling power to the grand juries, it would be intelligible; but, leaving it merely to the judge, makes
 527
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood : This Bill gives the power to the Lord-Lieutenant of putting his hands in the pockets of the people, and making them pay certain expenses. Surely, the grand juries ought to have the right of considering the question of what money they ought justly to pay. This power, at least, should be conferred to the grand juries. As an Englishman, I certainly feel bound to support the Irish Gentlemen by my vote when their proposition is, that having to pay expenses, they ought to have the power of inspecting the accounts.
 Mr. O'Connell : Does the hon. Gentleman know that it is competent for the judge to refuse his assent to a presentment if it be illegal. In the case of an illegal presentment, upon the grand jury showing that it is illegal, the judge will not fiat it; but, then, when the amount is disputed, how are you to ascertain the proper amount? Is it the judge who is to decide the matter of fact? Is it a jury of rate-payers who are to be summoned to determine the amount? Who is to he counsel for the rate? Nobody; but there are to he twelve counsel against it in the jury box. Really, Sir, the Irish Judges have enough to do at present. The Irish grand juries have also enough to do; those innocents, upon whom the hon. Member for Sligo has pronounced an eulogium, have quite enough to do, and they should not be troubled with any more business. Besides, if it so happened that by any chance the police in a particular county were active in a sense contrary to that which a grand jury thought (rightly thought, of course) they ought to be, there would be an infinitely more severe scrutiny into the accounts of that police force, and nothing would more gratify the grand jury than disallowing the items necessary for their maintenance. This is human nature, and I do not think that you possibly could, with safety to the Bill, admit this clause. A portion of the expenses, it is to he remarked, are to he paid out of the consolidated fund. You have, then, in this House the opportunity of seeing those accounts. You must have those accounts annually printed; and some Member, I am quite sure, will tale care to look at them. For my part, I think the entire sum ought to be paid out of the consolidated fund. I think that the general Government ought to pay for the
 528
 Mr. Shaw  I think the principle is certainly in favour of the amendment, for I know no more just cause of complaint on the part of the Irish grand juries than the various compulsory presentments which were brought before them, where they could exercise no discretion, while they had to bear all the odium of the heavy charges of which those compulsory presentments constituted the principal part. He thought it but reasonable, that if there was an obvious mistake, or an improper charge in the police accounts, that there should be a power in the grand jury to bring such mistake or error under the consideration of the judge, and that if both the court and grand jury concurred in its impropriety, they should not be constrained to allow it. It was new in hon. Gentlemen opposite to object to this influence of popular control, and the noble Lord seemed so much in love with the increased power the Irish Government was to derive under this Bill, that he was unwilling they should be subjected to any control whatever.
 Major Beauclerk : I think it is a great hardship upon the Irish grand juries that they are not to have any control over the police force. Supposing that we had, what we have not now, an arbitrary Government, and the police was entirely at the command of that Government, and it thought fit to increase that force far beyond what was necessary, who could be the proper persons to control them but the grand juries? I agree with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that we ought to have a better control over the grand juries than we have at present, I should like to see them chosen by the people, yet I think it is only fair that they should have some check or control over a police force.
 Mr. Lefroy : ( Dublin U 529 prima facie l
 Viscount Morpeth :The following clause appears to have been lost sight of in this discussion. The noble Lord then proceeded to read the clause, which was as follows:— 530
 Mr. William S. O'Brien : I think that the Accounts should be submitted annually to the Parliament. With respect to the clause proposed by my hon. Friend, I do not think that he can gain much by dividing the House upon it; and I express my hope that he will not divide the House. I think that the practicable operation of the clause read by the noble Lord will be equal to, and at least as great, as the clause brought up to-night.
 Viscount Morpeth : I must take this opportunity of repelling an attack made on a gallant officer and meritorious public servant, Sir Frederick Stoven, by the hon. Member for Londonderry. The charge was that of undue favour shown towards the Catholic portion of the police, at the expense of the Protestant. I felt upon the occasion that enough was said of the general character of the gallant Colonel, to satisfy every feeling he could entertain. With that keen susceptibility to reproach, in the discharge of his public functions, for which no one can condemn him, he is anxious to couple with an indignant denial of any improper motive, the fullest explanation of the minutest details of his conduct with respect to which I feel it due to him to submit to the House the following statement. The noble Lord read the following Document:—
 "Ulster Police, February 25th, 1836. Protestants, total force 1,048; Catholics, 202; 1 to 5–30. Dismissals since Sir Frederick Stoven took charge in February, 1834:—Protestants, 91; Catholics, 25; 1 to 3–16. Total constables:—Protestant, 196; 1 to 5–48; Catholics, 24; 1 to 8–10 of total force. Constables disrated:—Protestants, 9; Catholics, 2; 1 to 4–1. Constables promoted by Sir Frederick Stoven:—Protestan'ts, 33; Catholics, 8; 1 to 4–1. Cause of promotion of the eight Catholics. One for taking a murderer. One as a reward for honesty, for returning Bank-notes found to the Director of the Provincial Bank, Armagh. One a discharged sergeant of the 65th regiment, taken for a drill, and a remarkably fine looking man, and most respectable in every way. One by the Inspector-general, for his appearance and intelligence, and on the recommendation of a magistrate. Four on recommendation of the sub-inspectors." 532
 Mr. Shaw : I am very sorry for the absence of my hon. Friend, the Member for the county of Londonderry (Sir Robert Bateson), the more particularly as it is caused by his indisposition; but I do not think the noble Lord has accurately represented the statement my hon. Friend has made on the occasion in question. He (Sir Robert Bateson) did not himself charge Sir Frederick Stoven with any act of partiality, but merely repeated an observation that had been made to him by a chief constable, that it would be in vain to make a complaint of some inferior officer because he was a Roman Catholic. This certainly might be understood to imply an accusation that there was not perfect impartiality observed, as between persons of different religious persuasions. I have not the honour of being personally acquainted with Sir Frederick Stoven, but I have always heard him considered as a military man, an officer of distinguished merit. I must, however, add that, politically speaking, it was the general impression in Ireland that Sir Frederick Stoven was in politics a strong partisan.
 Mr. O'Connell : The right hon. Gentleman gave Sir Frederick Stoven the best possible character in everything, save that he was guilty of the crime of partiality. But he forgot to state that the Member for Londonderry did not name his informant until some time after. Now, the  Northern Whig 533
 Colonel Perceval : The imputation sought to be cast upon my hon. Friend (Sir Robert Bateson) is most unjustifiable, and like most of the hon. Member's statements is not supported by fact. On the night the debate took place, my hon. Friend told me and other hon. Members near me at the time, that Mr. Curry was his informant; therefore, it was not an afterthought as insinuated by the learned Member for Dublin. My hon. Friend, the Member for the city of Londonderry, is incapable of such conduct. With respect to the statement of the learned Member, that the number of Roman Catholics in the police bears no fair proportion to their numerical force, I must call to the recollection of hon. Members, that no man could be admitted into the police until it was ascertained that he could write a despatch. Now, it is a notorious fact, and I regret it, that the generality of the poorer classes of Roman Catholics could not write at all; and, therefore, many a Roman Catholic who had been recommended for a situation in the police, was rejected in consequence of his being unable to write.
 Colonel Bruen  again repeated that the rules of the House had been sacrificed by the learned Member in the attacks made by him. Was it impartial justice, then, that a person should be interrupted when he got up to defend himself? [ cries of spoke
 Mr. Lefroy (D. U.)  said, if the motion for a Committee to inquire into the state of the Dublin Society were really proposed with a view to extend the usefulness of the society, as it professed to be in the introductory part of it; if it were intended to achieve such objects by granting the Committee, he, for one, so far from objecting to such an inquiry, would give the motion his most cordial support. But when he looked to
 541 542 amende
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that an English Member (Sir E. Knatchbull) having spoken, he felt no delicacy in giving his opinion, which was, that a sufficient case had been made out for inquiry, on the sole grounds of misapplication of its funds. It was his (Mr. Duncombe's) opinion that the House had nothing to do with the rejection of Dr. Murray, and his vote would be given, if the question were pressed to a division, on totally distinct grounds from that rejection.
 Colonel Perceval  said, before an inquiry were instituted, it was necessary that a case should be made out against the society; but the only complaint preferred by the noble Lord regarded the payment of a few newspapers. The society had existed for upwards of 100 years, and had conferred great benefits on Ireland, For the last thirty years five persons only had been rejected. The learned Member opposite (Mr. O'Connell) was one of those rejected, but surely that was no reason why the despotic interference of the Government should be interposed in the way it had been attempted. It was the privilege of every society to choose their own associates, and no person could surely accuse the society of bigotry, when it was an ascertained fact, that in that period eight hundred members were admitted, and only five rejected. It was not the fact, as stated by the Attorney-General for Ireland, that Dr. Murray was excluded by a minority. The by-law was framed by the majority—a bare majority was capable of making it, and a bare majority could rescind it. It was manifest that the object was to give the Lord-Lieutenant the power of nomination of members of the society in the same way as he is to appoint constables. If the society submitted to the dictation of the Irish Government, and that they afterwards elected him, he should consider himself disgraced rather than honoured by the election. The noble Lord said, that if such
 544
 Colonel Perceval  thought the character of an individual Member a paramount subject. It might be irregular to refer to former debates, but he had never known the House refuse to a Member who had been attacked an opportunity of explanation. The hon. Member for Bradford would have vindicated himself on the former night had not the hon. Member for Dublin retired. He only claimed for the hon. Member for Bradford the usual courtesy.
 Sir Andrew Leith Hay  trusted that the Speaker would, in the first instance, give his opinion as to the point of practice, and he would then submit his motion for the Committee to re-assemble.
 Sir Andrew Leith Hay  said, he had to bring under the
 502 503 sine die
 Mr. Fitzstephen French,  before he allowed this Bill to go through a second stage, felt it incumbent on him to inquire from the noble Lord opposite what course, in respect to its future progress, his Majesty's Ministers meant to pursue? He rather imagined they were not aware of the nature of this Bill; it was one of no trifling importance, its object being to supersede the grand juries of Ireland, to take out of the hands of the country gentlemen the administration of fiscal affairs of the country. It contemplated a change of too important a nature for Government to remain neuter on, if such a measure was necessary. He contended it was their duty to introduce it themselves, and to undergo its responsibility. They should not leave the responsibility of a measure, the effect of which would be to repeal 100 statutes, and to put the fiscal system of all the counties on a footing entirely and essentially different from that which at present existed, on any shoulders but their own. Let not the noble Lord be led away by assertion incapable of proof, no matter how often repeated. He would find on inquiry that much had been done for Ireland under a system it was so much the fashion to abuse, from its introduction to the present day—her means of communication had improved in a manner unexampled in the history of any other country, both as to their extent and as to the economy of their execution. He confidently asserted no system had yet been brought forward superior to it either in theory or practice; the noble Lord would probably learn with astonishment, that the sum levied for the making and keeping in repair the roads and bridges of Ireland, did not amount to more than 400,000 l 520
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  said, he should support the proposition of his hon. Friend for inquiry. As it appeared to him, the ballot ought not to be retained in a society obtaining grants of public money. He regretted the mention that had been made of Dr. Murray. If the principle of the ballot were admitted, it was not the province of that House to interfere with its exercise; nor was it a matter of much moment to the House whether Dr. Murray, Dr. Whately, or Lord John Beresford were members of the Society. In his opinion, it would have been more consistent with the dignity of the House, and more in accordance with the feelings of the respected individual, if his name were not introduced.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that as no member of the Government seemed inclined to rise for the purpose of stating to the House the course which they intended to pursue with reference to the present motion, he felt bound to say a few words on behalf of the society to which the attention of the House had been drawn, and which he considered to have been very unjustly as sailed. The Dublin Society was, he believed, the only public institution in Ireland supported by any grant pf the public money, which had for its object
 536 tale "This is so much the country of reckless and
 537 "I regret that Dr. Murray was not, on the late occasion, admitted a member of the Dublin Society; not because he happened to be a Roman Catholic bishop, but because he is an amiable individual, whose manners qualify him to move in any station—whose fine and well-cultivated intellect would render him a valuable acquisition to any literary or scientific society in whose proceedings he would interest himself; in fact, Dr. Murray ought to rejoice in the vote of those gentlemen, when even the representative of majesty thought it a becoming occasion to take the unusual step of descending from the vice-regal pedestal to reprove the society in his behalf. It would appear also from the uncalled for" [he (Mr. Shaw) hoped the noble Lord opposite (Lord Morpeth) would
 538 bonâ fide 539
 Mr. Warburton  spoke to order; submitting that this course was inconsistent with the rules of debate.
 Mr. Warburton  again interposed.
 The Speaker  again decided that the course the hot). Member was pursuing was irregular, although the House might grant him the indulgence of being heard.
 The Speaker  decided, that any reply to what had been said in a former debate was undoubtedly irregular.
 The Speaker : In this case there are conflicting authorities, and there is also, as I am informed, conflicting practice. The gallant Officer, the Member for Elgin, has cited two authorities, the one that of Mr. Sherwin, and the other, anonymous. On the other side, the authority of Mr. Dwarris has been cited by the hon. Member for Mid-Lothian, and also an anonymous writer, who takes the same view of the question. In number, therefore, the authorities are equal. But I confess that I do not attach any great weight to these authorities, because they do not rest their opinions on any rule or principle that can he adopted as a guide. The only safe and intelligible principle, as it appears to me, is, that Committees should be regarded as portions of the House, limited in their inquiries by the extent of the authority that is given to them; but governed in their proceedings by the same rules which prevail either in the House or in Committees of the whole House. This is the opinion which I have always given when I have been referred to by Members, and I believe that any other course would lead to a variable and uncertain practice. The rules by which the House and Committees of the whole House proceed are known, and an adherence to them leads to uniform practice. There is, I believe, no doubt that there has been conflicting practice, in this matter, in different Committees, and that has probably arisen from the opinion expressed by Mr. Sherwin. It is, therefore, most expedient that the future practice of Committees should be regulated by the opinion and authority of the House. For the reasons which I have stated, I am of opinion that the rules followed in the House, or Committees of the whole House, ought to regulate the practice in Select Committees, whether sitting on public or private business. The reason and justice of the case are also in favour of holding that a Chairman ought not to vote except when the voices are equal. A Chairman generally acquires some influence and authority in a Committee in which he presides, and if in addition to that he is to have always one, and occasionally two votes, he is invested, especially in small Committees, with undue power. There are other circumstances connected with the station and duties of Chairman which equally favour this view, but it is not necessary to dwell on them in a case which appears to be so plain. 506
 The Speaker : The hon. and gallant Member is clearly out of order, as he has already spoken on the motion before the House.
 The Speaker : The hon. and gallant Member has already spoken on the question that the Petition do lie on the Table.
 The Speaker  agreed that he had told the hon. Member that he could revert to
 512
 Mr. Hardy  was perfectly satisfied.
 Mr. Hardy  urged that he was only pursuing a course due in justice to him-self. Me had understood that he was to be afforded an opportunity of explaining certain matters with which he had been
 511
 Mr. Hardy  was desirous of taking this occasion to explain some part of the conduct he had pursued on a late occasion. He had then been pointedly alluded to by the hon. Member for Dublin; and he should have replied at the time, but for the retirement of that hon. Member from the House. The hon. Member had complained of an assertion made by him, viz.—that the hon. Member had received a copy of the petition from Bath before it was in his hands. He had been informed that such was the fact. He had letters to prove that a printed copy of the petition from Bath was sent to the hon. Member for Dublin; and if he had not received it, it was at this moment in the dead-letter office. The hon. Member had also remarked, that it was extraordinary that he had brought forward the case, as they had formerly met in the Temple. He remembered meeting the hon. Member in the Temple; but he did not remember that they had ever been at the chambers of each other.
 Mr. Hardy  hoped, then, that the House would grant him the indulgence.
 Mr. Hardy  could only say in explanation of his conduct that he had lost his election.
 Mr. Hardy  rose, but could not proceed on account of the cries of  Chair! Order
 Mr. Hardy  rose amid cries of  Chair, Order Hear
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  said, the rejection of Dr. Murray did not speak the sentiments of the whole society; for, by the rules of the society, a power of rejection was vested in the minority which ruled the decisions of the society. He should certainly, when the question was brought on, vote against granting a sum of 5,000 l
 Mr. Methuen  complained of this delay of public business.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  thought that that which had been referred to by the hon. Baronet was very much in favour of the decision of the Committee, The Chair-
 504
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  observed, that although he concurred to the fullest extent in that principle of the Bill which intrusted the local expenditure to those only who represented the rate payers, yet he could not agree in other portions of it; for which reason he now gave notice of his intention to bring in a Bill at the latter part of the present session for remodelling the present grand jury system.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien,  in pursuance of his notice on the paper, rose to move for a Committee to inquire into the administration of the Royal Dublin Society, with a view to the wider extension of the advantage of the annual parliamentary grant to that institution, without reference to the distinctions of party or religion. The society was instituted more than a century ago, having for its object the promotion of literature and science, and the encouragement of agriculture, manufactures, and the arts. It has connected with it a botanic garden, a library, a museum, schools of design, architecture, and drawing, and professorships filled by gentlemen who deliver lectures in the different branches of experimental and mathematical science. He was not disposed to deny, that this society had been advantageous; but he would say, there had been an impression for some time prevalent, that it had not been so advantageous as it might have been made, and that, therefore, an inquiry should take place on the part of this House, with the view of rectifying this defect. This had been his opinion for several years. It was generally thought the society had too much the
 534 535
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  agreed with the hon. Baronet, that no measure for amending the grand-jury laws could give satisfaction in Ireland that was not based upon the principle of representation. This Bill he conceived to be most valuable in that respect, and in its alteration in the mode and principle of assessment. Assessment for county works should undoubtedly be thrown upon the landlord as well as the tenant—a most essential principle in order to give satisfaction in Ireland; and as a member connected with the northern part of that country, he could most confidently state, that there was no subject in which the inhabitants of the north felt at this moment a greater interest than the amendment of the grand-jury system. He could also state that feeling was not confined to Roman Catholics, but was participated in to an equal degree by Protestants. They were all, in fact, united in their call upon the Government for a measure of relief.
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that the simple question was, who was to take the votes if the chairman left the chair? He had never known the chairman to leave the chair for the purpose of voting, except when the parties were upon an equality. He thought that, under all the circumstances, they could not take a better example than that by which the Speaker was guided in the divisions in that House.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, it appeared to him that no case whatever had been made out for inquiry. The right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down could not surely have considered the subject, when he said that the minority of the society controlled the majority. It was true that, according to the by-law, a certain number of black-balls excluded, but it was competent for the society to call a general meeting, and rescind that by-law, that is, if the majority considered it advisable so to
 543
 Sir James Graham,  though his experience was not so great as that of many members whom he saw present, could confidently state, that during the period he had sat in that House, eighteen years, he had never seen a chairman leave the chair for the purpose of giving his vote. It was very desirable that, as the hon. Member for Finsbury recommended, they should decide these points separately. It was very desirable, in the first place, to settle the point of practice. As the hon. Member for Surrey had sat so very long in that House, and had very great experience in Committees, he would appeal to him to state what the practice had been.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  spoke to order.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  had no objection, hut rather wished, that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. Read a second time, and referred to a Select Committee.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  rose to move the second reading of this Bill. It had been already proved that where public works had been carried on, improvement to a very great extent had taken place in the condition of the people. He would not go through the evidence taken before the Commissioners on the subject—contenting himself merely by observing that the Report stated, that most important results had flowed from the carrying on of public works in the
 518 l 519
 Viscount Morpeth  did not wish to put himself forward in the present discussion, the more particularly as it might be said the Government was in a state of collision with the society. He considered that the Committee proposed by the hon. Member for Limerick, would be the proper tribunal to mediate between the two parties; and, therefore, it was that he regretted that from the turn the debate had taken, he was forced to take a more prominent part in it than under the circumstances he could have wished. It was his opinion, that if certain objections to the society could be removed, it might be continued so as to be most advantageous to Ireland; but he did not believe that the society was conducted at present so as to insure in the most satisfactory manner results so desirable. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Shaw) had read several extracts from a letter published in the newspapers by Dr. Meyler. It was Dot his intention to enter into the lists with Dr. Meyler; but he must be permitted to say, that he did not think Dr. Meyler was accurately informed when he denied that the society had devoted some portion of its funds in supplying the reading-room with newspapers. In 1829 a Committee of the House of Commons sat to inquire into the Irish Estimates generally; and it appeared in evidence before that Committee, that the newspapers and reviews furnished to the reading-room were paid for out of the private subscriptions; but since that period he was informed that the expense was defrayed out of the public fund. Now, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) asserted, that this attack upon the society had proceeded from the Government solely on political grounds. He must deny the justice of the statement; for independently and antecedently to the rejection of Dr. Murray, when, in fact, he (Viscount Morpeth) had
 540
 Viscount Morpeth  was bound to admit that the circumstance of Dr. Murray's rejection alone would not have been sufficient grounds for Parliamentary inquiry. The strong case was this, that the Government had proposed a series of regulations to the society which they had rejected; and, therefore, when the Government had to propose a grant for a society with which they were in collision, he thought the House was bound to step in and arbitrate between them.
 Colonel Thompson  said, that if he had 10,000 l. 579 l.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  approved of the course pursued by the Committee, from which he thought the public would eventually receive great benefit. He thought also that thanks were due to the Speaker for the zealous and cordial manner in which he had co-operated in the views of the House upon this subject. He must say, that the privilege, now discontinued, of permitting hon. Members to obtain numerous copies of public papers, was one that was very much abused, and it only existed in consequence of the impossibility of purchasing them. As for the hon. Member being put to the expense of purchasing these Reports at the cost of but a few shillings, he thought that many hon. Members would be glad to oblige their constituents at so cheap a rate. With regard to Bills in progress through the House, the greatest facility should be given for Members to receive them and send them to their constituents.
 Lord George Lennox  did not complain of being asked to pay for the papers of the House, but of not being able to procure those which he wanted by payment, on applying for them. It happened to himself the other day, that being anxious to obtain the Report of the Commissioners on Military Flogging, he made application at the usual office, but was told that it was printed elsewhere, and that, consequently, it was not to be had there. He then walked down Parliament-street, and went into a bookseller's shop, and obtained the Report in [question, for which he paid nine shillings.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  was surprised at the attack made on the Committee, and recommended that the whole system should be reviewed.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he wished to advance a principle which he believed to be nearly the same with that of the Member for Wigan. On asking an engineer at one of the Railway Committees the average expense of carrying a parish road over a railway by an arch, he had been told between 400 l. 1.; l. l.
 Mr. Wyse 
 584 585 586
 Mr. Lefroy (D. U.)  was surprised that the Government had not given any opinion on this question, nor stated how far they were willing to support the views of the hon. Member. He wished to know whether, after the great anxiety they had manifested to support the system at present in, operation in Ireland—whether, after all the trouble they had given themselves to establish that system, they were now prepared to supersede it altogether? He asked, were they to have two Boards of Education in
 587
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was not justified in casting these imputations on Government, of allowing motions to be brought on for party purposes which they did not mean afterwards to support. What right had he to judge of the feelings or acts of Government? The right hon. Gentleman was not now for the first time a bad prophet. He attached great importance to the question of national education, and he therefore should be sorry to withhold from any Member an opportunity of bringing forward his views on the subject. Was no Gentleman to introduce a motion to the House unless he could previously calculate on the predetermined support of the Government? This doctrine was not, he thought, in accordance with the feelings of the House, nor the principles of the Constitution. The plan of the hon. Member for Waterford had the approbation of the former Government, which the right hon. Gentleman had so cordially supported, He repudiated the charge that
 588
 Dr. Baldwin  complimented the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lefroy) on the chivalrous gallantry which induced him to fight the battle of his party against such odds. He congratulated him on being left without a single supporter of his opinions on his own side of the House. He knew the powers of the right hon. Gentleman. He knew they had a powerful and determined foe to contend against. He knew that, like another Ajax, the right hon. Gentleman could receive upon his shield the shafts and darts, if not the entire armoury, of that side of the House; but he thought it would be found that in such a struggle as the present question involved, invulnerable as the right hon. Gentleman might be, he would scarcely escape unscathed from the conflict. Powerful and courageous though he was, he thought even he was but a puny opponent against the cause of truth and justice. The right hon. Gentleman complained of Members on that side of the House being too ready to suggest measures for the moral and intellectual improvement of the country. He was not surprised at this; on the contrary, he should only be astonished at the right hon. Gentleman or his party consenting to any measure calculated to raise the people in the scale of moral excellence. To these errors of benevolence he and those with whom he acted were, he admitted, too liable. The Gentlemen on the opposite side, however had never sinned in such a manner. Their playthings and new fangled projects were of a different description, and of a totally opposite character, and, whether originating with individuals or their leaders, only contemplated the undue ascendancy of their own party, and the unfair depression of an opponent. In conclusion, he would only say that the proposition of his hon. Friend had his most hearty concurrence.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, that he had no intention to object to this petition being referred to the Committee; still less was it his intention to occupy the valuable time of the House with any detail of the circumstances bearing upon any question between the person who had signed the petition and himself, and indeed it would be quite impossible for him to explain those circumstances in any mode or manner so as to enable the House to form a judgment, if it were called upon to do so, as to the nature of this transaction. With regard to what had fallen from him on a former occasion, it appeared that the petitioner felt hurt by it. It was quite out of his power, however, to suppress the fact that there was a decided difference of opinion between the petitioner and himself as to the mode in which the affairs of this concern—a concern in which the public were as much interested as he was—should be conducted; and if the House had formed any opinion to the prejudice of Mr. Sothern on that score, he had not called for it. It was an opinion that arose immediately from the statement of the facts of the case made by him. It was no object of his to call for the sentiments of the House, in any shape, on the conduct of that individual. It was true that he had used strong expressions with regard to the conduct of another individual, acting, as he supposed, according to the instructions of Mr. Sothern. He had said, on that occasion, that the petition, on a subject in which he was interested, both as a Member of Parliament and as a private individual, had been put into the hands of a Member of that House in a surreptitious Way, and in a manner which he should not further condescend to characterize. It was put into the hands of the hon. Mem-
 552
 Mr. Forster  had but a single observation to make in reply to the remarks of the hon. Member for Middlesex, with respect to the repeal of the malt-tax. That hon. Member said, that the property-tax was repealed in 1816, by the landed interest, from a desire to be especially relieved. Now, the popular feeling was unanimously expressed against that tax; and a petition he remembered was presented from Liverpool, to which there were affixed more than 40,000 signatures. Lord Brougham, who was then a Member of that House, remarked upon a petition from Newton-Bushel, the only one presented for its continuance, that as it set itself against the rest of the country upon this subject, ha trusted it should be excepted from the benefit of its repeal. To show the pressure upon the landed interest, he would state a fact, of which he was himself a witness —he saw that day, upon an investment of 40,000 l. l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  considered, that if the property-tax were again levied, the great burden of it would fall upon the labouring
 578
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought it shameful for the House to entertain this trumpery proposition of a three-halfpenny saving to Members in procuring documents for the use of their constituents.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that seeing the noble lord (Lord F. Egerton) in his place, he would now present a petition, of which he had given that noble Lord notice. It was the petition of John Sothern, the acting trustee under the Duke of Bridgewater's will, and the sole superintendent of the vast estates comprised under that will. There was at present before the House a
 550 551
 Mr. Baines  thought, that there was this great advantage in direct taxation, that the person upon whom it was imposed could ascertain exactly what it was he had to pay. There was another advantage too, that it was less expensive than a circuitous tax; for in the same proportion that the taxes were circuitous were they expensive. This should be remembered with respect to a property-tax, that if they had a property-tax they must have also an income-tax; and who, he would ask, would submit in the time of peace to the inquisitorial investigations of their affairs necessary with an income-tax? The property-tax was exclaimed against. As to the house-tax, which was a direct tax, the cry against it had been so loud, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was compelled to remit it. With the views that he entertained, and which were decidedly opposed to those expressed by the hon. Member for Worcester, he should vote against his resolutions. He should do so, not because he was indisposed to direct taxation, but because he was indisposed to a property-tax, accompanied as that should be by an income-tax, to be collected by means of inquisitorial investigations, and which in a state of peace would never be endured in this country.
 Mr. Robinson  stated in reply, that it was his intention to withdraw his resolutions, as he hoped the discussion which had taken place would produce an impression upon the country and the Ministry.
 Mr. Robinson  thought it more convenient that the Speaker should not be troubled to decide in any case, but that an inflexible rule should be laid down.
 Mr. Robinson  claimed the kind indulgence of the House while he submitted to its consideration not any preconceived principles of his own merely, but which were also entertained by some Members of the House whose opinions were entitled to the highest respect. Though his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer might think he (Mr. Robinson) was interfering with the duties which properly belonged to his office, yet he (Mr. Robinson) begged to
 553 554 * * 555 556 l. l. 557 l. l. 558 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem 559 l. l. l. 560 561 562
 The Speaker  inquired whether the hon. member intended to make any motion.
 The Speaker : The hon. Member says, that he does not make a charge against me, because he now alleges that the refusal of the papers for which he applied is owing to an opinion expressed by the Committee on printed papers; and then he contends that in giving this opinion the Committee have exceeded their powers. Now, before I state how the facts are, I must at once say, that whatever the blame be, it belongs to me, and not to the Committee. The House came to a resolution that the printed papers should be sold, and a Committee was appointed to assist the Speaker in regulating the printing and sale of the papers. The distribution of papers remained as before with the Speaker. But as I found that if papers were distributed as liberally to Members as they had been before the resolution of the House was passed, it would have defeated the spirit and intention of that resolution, I thought it desirable to consult with the Committee on particular cases for the regulation of my own conduct. I have received the most cordial and useful assistance from the Committee, but the responsibility of distribution rests with me as before. The duty imposed on me, is not an easy one, because, as I must limit the former practice, the task is ungracious. I am bound to exercise my discretion on the applications made, and I endeavour, as far as I can, to lay down general rules, and to afford all the accommodation to Members that I can, consistently with the resolution of the House. When the hon. Member applied for two copies of the Report on Accidents in Mines, for the use of two libraries in that part of the country with which he is connected, I felt that, in refusing or complying with his request, I was establishing a rule of extensive application. If the Reports were to be given to libraries in Cornwall, they must
 581
 Mr. Benett  had always advocated a property-tax because he considered it a fair tax, and one that could be collected with the least possible expense to the country. The landed interest, he thought, must be benefitted by a property-tax, and for his part he did not object to its inquisitorial powers. It had the additional advantage, in his opinion, that it was calculated to relieve the country from many of its burdens. It would commute 11,000,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. John Maxwell  condemned the attack that had been made upon the landed interest by the hon. Member for Middlesex. He coincided in opinion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the imposition of a property-tax would be improper. While entertaining this opinion, he could not refrain from expressing his desire that some judicious alterations could be made in the taxes upon soap, malt, and sugar, which now pressed so heavily upon the working population.
 Mr. Hume  could not agree with those hon. Gentlemen who thought that direct taxation was the very worst mode in which taxes could be levied. He had thought that little difference of opinion existed on that subject. Even the Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted that taxation to be the best which proportionately took the least out of the pockets of the people, and returned the most into the Exchequer. With regard to what the hon. Member had said respecting the inconvenience which any portion of the labouring classes would feel at the loss of employment for fifteen days together, he considered that nothing more distressing to the labouring classes could take place. If a man who had no other means of subsistence than his daily labour was to be kept for fifteen days out of employment the consequences to him would be most grievous. But what was the best way of promoting the employment of the working classes? It was, in his mind, by not taking money out of the pockets of those who afforded them employment. He could call the attention of the House to what had occurred with respect to the repeal of the duty on salt. It would be in their recollection that at the time that they repealed the duty on salt that duty amounted to 15 s. s. s. 573 l. l. 574 575 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem d. d. 576 s. 577
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Committee which had come to the decision of selling the papers to the public did so on the ground that there were two millions of copies by them, and that there were great numbers who would be glad to avail themselves of the privilege of purchasing these papers at a cheap rate; and that Committee was moved for at the suggestion of his hon. Friend himself. That Committee had, for two days together, taken into consideration the question whether copies should be given to public libraries and institutions, and had at last come to the decision that it would be so utterly impossible to draw a fair line of distinction between those institutions to which it might be desirable to extend such a privilege and those to which it would not
 582
 Mr. Potter  rose to move a resolution declaratory that no railway or tramway whereon carriages are propelled by steam shall be made across any highway on the level, unless the Committee on the Bill report that such a restriction ought not to be enforced. If there was not some check to the present system of railroad-making the country would be dissected in every direction; and from the great velocity of steam carriages it was necessary to guard against sudden and unexpected accidents on the crossways. The railroads should either pass under or over the present highways. Frequent accidents occurred of persons having been overtaken while crossing the railroad. He had witnessed some. At present he would content himself with introducing his motion without entering into details.
 Mr. T. Attwood  protested against the resolutions being withdrawn. He came down to the House prepared to support them. He regretted that so many hours had now been wasted upon a discussion which was to terminate thus.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not quarrel with his hon. Friend for having brought this subject under consideration, though, no doubt, the House would have wished that it might be postponed. As it was, he was glad that the speech of his hon. Friend had been listened to with so much attention, and he would briefly endeavour to touch on the various points to which the hon. Member for Worcester had referred in the observations he had made; and he trusted he should be able to show that it would not be expedient to give the sanction of the House to the propositions of his hon. Friend. One great fallacy pervaded the whole of his remarks. He attempted, by the exclusion of facts of the greatest possible importance, to lead the House to judge upon a partial view of the case, and to draw inferences unsustainable on sound reason and argument. In the first resolution the hon. Gentleman stated, that the public income was made up from taxes imposed during the exigencies of the war. Now, a certain portion of it was undoubtedly so raised, but the hon. Gentleman excluded from his resolutions all mention of the large proportion of the war taxes which had been repealed since the peace; he did not say one word on the subject, and any person unacquainted with what had been done by successive Governments would suppose, that for a peace establishment and a peace expenditure the nation was called on to pay taxes imposed during war, in which no deduction or remission had taken place. It was most material to bear in mind that the war expenditure was not entirely defrayed by taxation, but was to a great extent supplied by loans, the interest of which had now to be provided for; so that to the regular peace expenditure was to
 563 564 l. l. l. 565 l. 566 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem 567 l. l. l. 568 l. l. 569 570 571 l. Barlow Hoy 572
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it would be more convenient if the resolution were referred for consideration to the Select Committee sitting on Railways. He would beg leave to move that it be referred.
 Mr. Tooke  denied that he was actuated by any paltry feeling of parsimony. He
 583
 Mr. Tooke  rose to call the attention of the House to the subject of the delivery of Printed Papers to Members of the House. He had a short time back applied for two copies of a Report which he thought it desirable that his constituents should have, and which he intended to present to two public libraries with that view. The Speaker, however, at the suggestion of the Committee, declared that he did not feel himself authorised to order those Reports to be given to him, but that he might purchase them. Now it was very well for his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, to send any of his constituents to the shops where these documents were sold, but when the request for them came from the country, seldom accompanied by remittances, few hon. Members would have nerve enough to make their constituents the same reply, and he thought it hard that hon. Members should be put to the expense of purchasing papers which were necessary to give information to their constituents. Another objection was, that no
 580
 Mr. Tooke  said, that if he made any motion, it would be that it was not within the province of the Select Committee of Printed Papers to interfere with the discretion of the Speaker in the distribution of the printed papers of that House.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  gave his cordial
 592
 Mr. Wilkes  would support the prayer of the petition. At the same time he thought that they might advantageously undertake the cultivation of beet-root in this country, and the manufacture of sugar therefrom, whereby they would have sugar as good and much cheaper than at present.
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that he must revert to a question which he had put to the noble Lord on the subject of tithes on coals and other minerals—a question of great local importance in many parts of the country, and in respect to which the Bill brought forward by his Majesty's Government was silent. The noble Lord was not prepared on a former occasion to answer the inquiry; and he therefore now begged to ask whether it was the intention of the Government during the present session to introduce any measure relating to tithes on minerals?
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had given the matter his serious consideration since it was last mentioned, but had not been able to come to any satisfactory conclusion in respect to tithes on minerals,
 593
 Sir R. Peel  asked if the noble Lord had any alterations to propose in the provisions of the Bill?
 Lord John Russell  replied, that he had none of any importance, or at all affecting the principle of the Bill. He therefore should be glad to get into Committee, in order to hear the suggestions and opinions of hon. Members on each clause as proposed.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that many cases would arise which were not provided for in the provisions of this Bill. He wished to know in what way the modus was to be disposed of—who were the authorities to decide whether the allegations that a modus existed were valid or not?
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had a clause to propose to set that point at rest, but at present he would not enter into the details of it.
 Mr. Pemberton  said, that the noble Lord could not be more anxious than he was to see a system for the entire commutation of tithes; but he was persuaded that this Bill, as it now stood, was incapable of effecting that object, unless some most important alterations were made in it. He was extremely anxious to give effect to a measure for the entire commutation of tithes, but he was sure, that if the law-officers of the Crown would examine this Bill, and compare it with that of the hon. Member for Tamworth, they would see that the latter was best calculated to bring about the views and intentions of his Majesty's Government.
 Lord John Russell  had not seen the Bill of the right hon. Baronet before he had brought forward his own measure. He had asked the right hon. Baronet to state his plan last session, and he was sorry that the right hon. Baronet had not acceded to his request. He however, did not think that at present he should be justified in adopting the provisions of that Bill.
 Mr. Estcourt (O. U.)  said, he saw that the Bill of the noble Lord contained no provisions as to the time within which voluntary commutations must be effected, and before the expiration of which compulsory commutations would not be enforced, He
 594
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had originally intended to limit the time for voluntary commutations to six months; but that upon consideration, he thought that time was too short, and he therefore meant to introduce into the Bill words which would make that point clear. He should propose that twelve months, from the 1st of October next, should be allowed before compulsory commutations could be made.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had put certain questions to the noble Lord merely for the purpose of being guided in considering the details of the Bill by the answers he might receive. He, for one, had no objection to the House resolving at once into Committee, if the noble Lord so desired; but there being many important omissions in the Bill, and the noble Lord not being prepared to supply them, he (Sir R. Peel) should certainly feel some difficulty in offering suggestions to do that which the noble Lord was not prepared to do in respect to his own measure.
 Sir Robert Price  was of opinion, with many of his constituents, who had paid a great deal of attention to tithes that before Surveyors or Commissioners were sent to value tithes, with a view to a permanent commutation, it would be advisable, if not necessary, that some law should pass, to declare what is and what is not titheable, since there prevailed, at the present moment, the greatest uncertainty on that subject. There had been a great contrariety of decisions on the point, and the consequences of an attempt to make a permanent settlement, under such circumstances might (as in the case of Lord Tenterden's Act) be, the commencement of an infinite number of actions to try disputed questions. The state of the law with respect to timber trees had always been considered as free from tithe, of above twenty-years growth, until the decision of the case of the executors of Dr. Ford which had ever since involved the point in great doubt and uncertainty. He should conclude by expressing a hope that if the Government did not at once bring in a Bill to settle this and other similar questions, they must not be chagrined if they found, in consequence of their own measures, increased litigation should take place.
 Mr. Gally Knight  said, in the interval
 595 status quo, status quo 596 597
 Mr. Lennard  said, it was in his mind an extreme defect in the Bill, that in ascertaining the rent-charge, which was to be permanently settled on the land, no regard was had to the real nature and staple of the land to be so charged, nor to the consideration, that of two farms similar in soil and in situation, the one under a good and enterprising tenant might be producing ten times as much as the other under a slovenly one. No provision was made for that period, if ever it should arise, when the corn laws would be repealed, and when those lands which were cultivated as corn lands, in consequence of the monopoly given by those laws, should
 598 s. s. s. s. 599 600 601 602 603
 Mr. Parrot  said, the present question was one of such immense importance that he thought it ought to undergo a much fuller discussion before they went into Committee, for which the House was not prepared—as from what was said by the noble Lord (Lord Howick) on a former night; the impression on his mind was (and most of the hon. Members near him were impressed with the same notion) that they were to have had a full discussion of the principle of the Bill to-night, in order to bring out the facts and bearings of the subject—and to go into Committee on some future night. It now appeared, however, that, notwithstanding this supposed arrangement, an attempt was to be made to pass over the general discussion of the Bill, and to go into Committee at once. He should object to such a proceeding, because when such immense interests were at stake, and when the question was so little understood both in and out of the House, he thought much more time was necessary for the consideration of the subject than had already been given, or could
 604 605 l., l. l. 606 Cheers. 607
 Mr. Blamire  said, that connected as he was with a part of the country in many respects peculiarly circumstanced as to the payment of tithes, and having for a number of years had considerable experience in all rural matters, and having, as a practical man, had ample opportunity of observing the working of the tithing system in its various ramifications, he trusted he might be allowed to obtrude himself for a short time on the attention of the House. He said he must, in the first place, beg that it might be understood that the observations he was about to offer to the consideration of the House were more especially applicable to the working of the system in the north of England, where alone he felt competent to give an opinion with any degree of confidence; and said, he must beg that it might be distinctly understood that he was not about to hazard any conjecture as to the success or failure of the measure now proposed in the midland or southern counties, where he had not had the opportunity of acquiring the requisite information. To the intricacies and perplexities of this great and important question he was perfectly alive, and he was well aware of those difficulties with which it was surrounded and beset—difficulties which none but practical men could fairly or duly appreciate. He was also well aware that it was much more easy to raise objections to, and point out imperfections in, any plan that might be proposed, than to devise a suitable and judicious remedy; and, in consequence, he felt no slight degree of diffidence in stating his objections to the plan proposed by the noble Lord, and in submitting such suggestions as occurred to him; but since the measure of a commutation was first brought forward, he had, on various occasions, stated it as his opinion that it was far beyond the reach of any degree of ingenuity to contrive one general measure fairly and equitably calculated to meet the difficulties of each particular and varying case. All that could be done, therefore, and all that it was prudent to attempt to do, was to place
 608 609 610 l. l.; l. l. l. l. 611 612 l. l. 613 614 l. l. 615 l. l. 616
 Viscount Howick  was sure, that the observations which the House had on that night heard, must naturally have made the strongest impression. Any one who had listened to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman must have derived the most valuable information from it, and must have felt the importance of advice proceeding from a Member of so much practical experience. The subject which they had to deal with, it must be admitted, was one beset on all sides with difficulties, and some of those difficulties were of a formidable character. He could not agree in the opinion which the hon. Member for Cumberland had expressed, that, in the present state of the country, it was desirable that they should hold out an inducement and temptation to voluntary com-
 617 618 619
 Sir Robert Peel  regretted that the House had been involved in the present discussion on the principle of the Bill before the question of going into Committee; because, whatever his opinion might be on some important particulars, not being opposed in principle to a compulsory commutation, he should have been disposed to forego all preliminary objection, and go at once into Committee, in order to have an opportunity of obviating any objections of detail which might be made to the various provisions of the Bill, and rendering it in all its parts as complete and unobjectionable as possible. In point of fact, the principle of compulsory commutation being conceded, the policy of applying it depended so much on the machinery by which it should operate, that it was difficult to consider the principle apart from the details; the policy of admitting the principle depended almost wholly on the perfection of the details, and the manner in which they were to be applied. But, at the same time, after the very able and powerful speech of the hon. Member for Cumberland, whose opinion on this question was entitled to so much weight, urged, as it had been on the present occasion, with such consummate knowledge of the sub-
 620 621 622 maximum minimum 623 624
 Lord John Russell  did not regret the discussion which had taken place, because when they came to consider the clauses of the Bill they might take advantage of the observations which had been thrown out, and their decisions, in consequence, he hoped, would be calculated to give a wider scope and efficacy to its provisions. His object in desiring the Bill to be committed that night was, that they might hear and have time to consider all those points upon which there was any difficulty, that they might listen to any practical suggestions, and adopt or reject them in rediscussing the matter after Easter, as might appear to be advisable. He agreed that it would be a great misfortune hastily to adopt a measure for the sake of its principle, which might afterwards be found so faulty in its details, as to aggravate the very mischief it was intended to remove. As to the question of a voluntary or a compulsory commutation of tithe, he considered the right hon. Gentleman had not fully answered the observation of his noble Friend, the Secretary-at-War, who stated that a measure to facilitate the voluntary commutation of tithes, con-
 625 626 s. d. s. d. s. 627 s. s. d. s. d. s. d. data l., l. 628 l., 629 l., l. bonus 630 631
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  thought there would be more cases of hardship than the noble Lord had anticipated. If the noble Lord meant when he said that agriculture was likely to advance that the more highly cultivated lands in England, and those lands in Ireland which would doubtless speedily be brought into cultivation, would be sufficient to meet the demands of our population to whatever extent it might increase, he fully agreed with him. But what then was to become of the inferior soils under such competition? They would be thrown out of cultivation, and how would it be possible for them to pay the amount of tithe permanently fixed upon them by this Bill, on an average taken on the basis of their present value? There were many other points to which he would refer at the proper time. At present he would only say, that whatever the result of this Bill, and whatever the result of the Bill of his right hon. Friend might be, nothing could be more gratifying to the House and to the country than that this important question should have been brought forward and discussed as it had been, so wholly free from political or party bias. His noble Friend, (Lord John Russell) had failed, in rebutting the objections which were urged against his Bill at an early stage of the debate, by the hon. Member for Cumberland (Mr. Blamire) in the able and lucid speech for which the House was so much indebted to him. In the views of the greater part of that speech he cordially concurred. It was true, that a commutation on compulsory principles was abstractedly the best;
 632
 Mr. Cayley  approached the present measure, or any measure of a similar nature—unless it were voluntary in its principle, with the deepest distrust and apprehension of the result. He was not only diffident of his own powers to decide this question equitably for both parties, but he was doubtful of the data on which others proposed to decide it. There could be no dissentient voice as to the principle of commutation of tithe; its object was to relieve the tithe receiver, especially if he was a clergyman, of an obnoxious and invidious and most unpopular mode of collecting an ecclesiastical revenue. It released capital to be hereafter invested in the soil from being taxed in the ratio of one-tenth of its gross returns. The difficulty in the question was, how to arrive at correct data upon which to ground a just arrangement. He was averse to any plan of reduction which amounted virtually to a release from the payment of tithe; he was equally averse to enhancing a customary payment, or perpetuating a charge on a temporary system of cultivation, to such an extent as involved confiscation. There were various opinions as to the origin and real legal claim of tithe. Authorities of equal weight differed in opinion. One said that the claim was one-tenth of the produce, another that it was one-tenth of the land; and he believed that Justice Wray had laid it down that every tenth laid in a field should be for the tithe-owner, and that the farmer might cultivate it as badly as he pleased. Into this question he should not enter. They could not go so far back. Latterly, decisions of Judges, he believed, had been more in favour of the tithe-owner than the tithe-payer. Whatever might be considered the law upon the subject, common sense and common justice had, in ninety-
 633 l. l. l. 634 minimum minimum The Morning Chronicle 635 l. l. l. 636 637 s. d. s. s. 638
 Mr. Benett  said, his hon. Friend was mistaken in what he said respecting the average of the last seven years, as the payment, though fixed, would bear a relative proportion to the current produce and value. As to what he said about customary payments, nothing could afford a more uncertain test. He knew one instance, in Wiltshire, where a man paid a composition, for forty-five years, of 300 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hodges  was understood to say, that, while he was anxious for an equitable adjustment and final settlement of the tithe question, he could not but admit that there were strong objections entertained against the present measure. The injury resulting from the project of taking the estimate from the last seven years, would extend over a larger share of England than the noble Lord imagined, and the discontent would be in proportion. Against the plan of taking the estimates from the last seven years he begged to enter his protest; and he hoped there would be introduced some modifications in the Bill, to render it palatable to the country.
 Mr. Wrightson  thought that the experience derived from Inclosure Acts was fully sufficient to found at once a compulsory system on. At the same time he did not think that the present measures had not the proper medium. To the twenty-ninth clause, which contained the principle on which the commutation was to be effected, he strongly objected, and he should prefer the voluntary Bill of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) to the present measure, if that clause were retained unaltered.
 Mr. Pryme  said, the principle of voluntary commutation was adopted in many cases, and was found not to have worked well. He thought the principle of compulsory commutation was the only good
 639
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that his opinions on this question had been strengthened by what he had heard. Whatever might be the fate of this or any other measure brought forward on the subject, the country would at least see that the question was fully discussed, and that there was a desire on both sides of the House to do something effectual in the matter. He felt obliged to the right hon. Baronet for what he said, and he agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that no measure founded on the voluntary principle would be attended with any great benefit. Indeed, it appeared to him to be almost impossible to frame a measure on any one principle, which should be applicable to the whole of the kingdom. All the measures which had been brought forward in this House for the commutation of tithes had hitherto proved unsatisfactory; but of all the measures which had been brought under the notice of Parliament on this question, that which appeared best calculated to effect a practical compulsory commutation was the Bill introduced by Lord Althorp in 1834. Now, there was a very great objection to the principle of that Bill, and being aware of the objections urged against it from many quarters, he was convinced that it was quite impossible for Government to carry such a Bill through this House. He trusted his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) would endeavour to effect a compulsory commutation upon fair grounds; but he was afraid it would be found impossible to frame a measure upon certain fixed principles, so as to make it generally applicable. For instance, the  minimum 640
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the party who drew up the Bill seemed to have paid very little attention to accuracy. In one clause it was stated to be a Bill for England, and in another a Bill for England and Wales. He should like to know from the noble Lord, or from the Attorney-General, to what section of the empire, England alone, or England and Wales, did the Bill apply?
 Lord John Russell  said, the Bill was to apply to' England and Wales; and the word England alone was used, as he understood that England included Wales.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  inquired whether the two Commissioners who were to be appointed by the Secretary of State, would be members of the Church of England?
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that as the appointments emanated from the Crown, that was a sufficient guarantee that they would be properly bestowed.
 Mr. Cayley  wished to ask from what class of persons these Commissioners were to be selected? Were they to be of the same sort as the Poor-Law Commissioners? He thought they should be acquainted, not only with law, but also with the nature and value of cultivated land.
 Sir Robert H. Inglis  hoped that the interests of the Church would be attended
 641
 Colonel Thompson  said, the principle which claimed that the Commissioners should be of the Established Church because the Church was one party to the contract, would go to prove there should be one Commissioner a Catholic, and another a Unitarian, because both these opinions existed among the parties on the other side.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, whether the hon. Member for Hull meant it for wisdom or for wit, there was little to surprise in the fact of such a suggestion originating in such a quarter.
 Colonel Thompson  meant it for nothing but the wisdom of justice.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, from the reply his question had received from the noble Lord, he felt it imperative upon him to press on the House the amendment of which he had given notice upon this clause. It was evident, as the Bill stood, that the two Commissioners to be appointed by the Secretary of State, might be of any sect—Unitarian, Roman Catholic, or, in short, any person whatever. Now, though, in the opinion of hon. Gentlemen opposite, this discretion might be deemed a fitting discretion, he and other friends of the Established Church looked upon it with fear and apprehension. The remedy he proposed was this: the Archbishop of Canterbury was to have the appointment of one Commissioner; and, as there was no reason to apprehend that he would not appoint a member of the Church of England, it would be well to provide that, in every case in which the interest of the Church was affected, a casting vote should be given to the Archbishop of Canterbury's Commissioner. The effect of this precaution would be, that no decision could be come to unless it had the sanction of the Archbishop's Commissioner [ laughter. 642
 Mr. Richards  said, his hon. Friend, he was sure, would give him credit for being favourable to the Established Church, but he could not support the amendment his hon. Friend had introduced. In his opinion, it would not even bear discussion; he earnestly entreated him, therefore, to withdraw it.
 Mr. Edward Buller : The hon. Member had professed to bring forward the amendment from a regard for the Church. In his opinion, it would be considered only as an expression of suspicion and distrust against the Dissenting portion of the community. The House must remember this Bill involved a question of property; and he put it to the House to say whether an honourable Dissenter of that rank in which it was likely those persons would be who would be selected for this purpose, would not deal quite as fairly with that question of property as any Churchman?
 Mr. Greene  rose to move an amendment. He objected to the principle of allowing individual commutation. He thought it would lead to great inconvenience and great inequality; and, in some cases, to the grossest injustice. The substance of his amendment would be this: that an individual should not have the power of commuting his own particular tithes, but that the consent of the whole parish should be required.
 The Chairman  required a more specific amendment.
 Mr. Edward Buller  considered that this clause involved one of the most important questions which the House would have to decide. It involved the question of individual and parochial commutation. The Bill of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth proceeded rather, upon the principle of parochial; the Bill of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, favoured
 643
 Mr. Pemberton  observed that it appeared to him as this Clause and the following then stood that occupying tenants, for instance under a lease for seven years, which must be nearly expired, would have the right of binding the inheritance for ever, with the sanction of the Commissioners without the consent of those really interested in the land. That surely could not be the intention of Government.
 The Solicitor General  said, such undoubtedly was not the intention of Government. It was their intention only to give the power to those who were really the owners of some portion of the inheritance: either the owner of the estate or the tenants, under church leases, leases for renewals, or for lives, who, as his hon. and learned Friend was aware were considered in the Courts of Equity as having a permanent interest in the soil.
 Lord Stanley : Sir, it appears to me, that on this clause there are two important and distinct questions; first, what is the
 644 i. e., 645
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  deprecated the injustice of preventing an individual willing to commute from commuting, without the consent of the majority of the parish.
 The Solicitor General  said, with regard to the objection against allowing commu-
 646
 Sir Robert Peel : the Clause under consideration allows any owner of land, and any owner of lithe, to contract with each other. It would therefore appear that the owner of land, part of which is subject to rectorial and part of it to vicarial tithes, might, if the owner of the former consented, contract with him, and that with the consent of the patron or ordinary, that contract might be made a permanent one. In the 17th Clause, it is enacted, that "to every agreement that shall be entered into for the commutation of tithes, pursuant to the provisions of this Act, there shall be parties the owner of the land whereof the tithe is proposed to be commuted, as also  every any Solicitor General. any any 647
 The Solicitor General : —The parties agree: say the Rector for 30 l. l.;
 Sir Robert Peel : But there is no distinct provision for the mode of recovery of their tithe or that such agreement shall be necessary; and I see great difficulty in the way of settling that point as the Bill stands.
 Mr. Goulburn : With respect to individual commutation by agreement, I confess I do not see so much difficulty in the way of general parochial agreement, yet, as the consent of each party is necessary, if you combine the consent of the rector and vicar, I am not disposed to offer any opposition to the clause at this period.
 Sir Robert H. Inglis  concurred with his noble Friend (Lord Stanley), that voluntary individual commutation would lead to general commutation through the parish, and that the clause as it now stood, limited by the word "owner," would meet the necessities of the case.
 Lord John Russell  I think that as to the mode of recovery: there will be no difficulty, and that justice will be done by this clause: when the owner of the land and the owner of the tithe agree. I can see no danger whatever in individual voluntary commutation. With respect to individual or compulsory award, I will not now touch upon that.
 Lord Stanley  suggested that the last line and a-half of the clause in question (unless the same should have been confirmed under the hands and seal of the Commissioners) should be omitted; the effect of which would be, that while pre-
 648
 The Attorney General (Sir John Campbell)  considered the rector and the vicar, in the case put by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, as joint owners of the tithe, and therefore the consent of both was necessary. With regard to what the noble Lord, who had just sat down, had said, as to limiting the power of agreement binding successors and inheritors to owners of fee-simple or fee-tail, he entirely protested against that opinion. There was a Bill now upon the table which he had had the honour of introducing into the House, the great object of which was to give to the owners of particular estates the power of enfranchising copy-holds; at present the liberty to agree with the landlord for enfranchisement being limited to owners in fee-simple or fee-tail. The principle of that Bill had been sanctioned by the House, and it was upon that very principle that this clause had been framed. Indeed, if that principle was not admitted, they had better strike out the clause altogether; for it was well known that all the great landed estates of the country were preserved in the family by their being limited, with remainders in tail; almost all the nobility in the country held their estates only for life, with remainder in tail to first and other sons, &c., and the effect of such a limitation as that proposed by the noble Lord, would be, to render the clause, nearly, if not wholly, ineffectual by imposing a most widely-operating check upon the power of commutation.
 Mr. Pemberton  had never conceived it possible, as the Bill was framed, that the consent of both rector and vicar should be required in the case put by his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel). He was surprised
 649 vice versâ.
 The Solicitor General : There appears to me, Sir, to be two points raised by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Ripon. First: whether the rector and vicar should be allowed to commute distinct from each other; and secondly, whether the Clause, as it stands, gives them the power of doing so. Now to advert to the latter point, in the first place: at the beginning of the 12th Clause, it is enacted that the "owner of any land, and the owner of any tithe, may contract" together in manner hereinafter mentioned. In the 17th Clause we find a provision, that "in every agreement which shall be entered into for the commutation of tithe, pursuant to the provisions of this Act; that there shall be parties, the owner of the land whereof the tithe is proposed to be commuted, as also every owner of any tithe arising from or out of any such land." Now although, undoubtedly I admit there may be some apparent obscurity in the first of these clauses, yet the words "in manner hereinafter mentioned," plainly couple it with the second, and therefore it is clear what meaning is meant to be conveyed by the two together. Now, to look at the question in the light of principle; is it or is it not advisable to require the concurrence of the rector and the vicar in any agreement for commutation of tithe. I do assure hon. Gentlemen that this was matter of very serious consideration to Lord Althorp, and I admit that it is fair matter for discussion. But he came to the conclusion that it was advisable to prevent the possibility of jobbing between the owner of the land and the tithe owner, or of one of those persons, to the prejudice of the other.
 Mr. Goulburn  agreed in the necessity of preventing that species of jobbing, but was of opinion that in the succeeding part of the Bill that danger was not sufficiently provided against, inasmuch as any landowner might compel any tithe-owner to commute his particular tithe.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  said, that having given 20,000,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that an equalization of the duty was as important to the consumers generally as it was to the traders in sugar. He was not surprised to see, from the returns of the last year, that the consumption of sugar was on the decline, to the great injury of the mass of the community. He hoped that his Majesty's Ministers would not postpone beyond this session the equalization of the duty, as the unequal duty at present existing was the source of aggravated injustice to the community at large. At all events, he trusted that his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, or some other hon. Member, would bring the question before the House, and have its opinion taken upon it this session. The hon. Member might be sure of having the House as well as the country with him on the question.
 Mr. Ewart  begged to say, in reference to what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex, that one of the first things he had done this session, was to give notice, that on the annual sugar duties' resolutions being brought forward, he should move that the duty on East-India sugar be reduced to the same amount as that levied on sugar the produce of the West-India islands.
 Mr. Ewart  presented a petition from the bankers, merchants, shopkeepers, and other inhabitants of Liverpool, praying for an equalization of the duties upon East and West India sugar, and upon all other commodities, the produce of our East-India possessions. The petition, the hon. Member said, was most numerously and respectably signed, and it referred to a subject with regard to which the feelings of the people of England were every day becoming stronger. The feeling in favour of an equalization of the duties was not confined to the merchants—it pervaded all classes—the retail shopkeepers and the consumers, who had the good sense to see that their interests would be benefited by such a measure. This petition was signed by all the merchants and a vast number of the shopkeepers engaged in this trade in Liverpool, who saw that the best mode to encourage trade was to reduce that indirect taxation which pressed upon the raw material of importation.
 Sir James Graham  said, that in order to fix the practice of Parliament with respect to the power of the Chairman of a Select Committee to vote, he thought an uniform rule should be laid down, and established by a declaratory resolution of the House. It was not necessary to argue the point, because it must rest on the analogy to the practice of the House itself, and the equity and justice of the case demanded, that in a Select Committee, where the numbers were so small, the Chairman should not exercise so very preponderating an influence as the power of voting, except where the votes on each side were equal. He should therefore now move, according to the notice he had given, the following resolution:—"That, according to the established rules of Parliament, the Chairman of a Select Committee can only vote when there is an equality of voices."
 Mr. Crawford  said, he had to present a petition which he was sorry to say had been in his hands for the last month. He must also express his regret that none of the Ministers were present in their places who might naturally be supposed to feel an interest in the petition, especially the Chancellor of the
 651 652 l., 653
 Mr. Shaw  said, that considering his connexion with the most important beyond all comparison of the Irish Corporations, and that he had not before troubled the House with any observations on the
 654 655 656 657 l. l. 658 l. 659 660 l. 661 662 663 "hear" Mr. Roebuck 664 665 Hon. Member: 666 667
 Mr. Blackstone : In rising to second the motion of the right hon. Gentleman, I take an early occasion of expressing my satisfaction at having an opportunity afforded me of giving a satisfactory and honest vote in opposition to the principles of the Bill introduced by his Majesty's Government. Having been one of the minority who recently supported the resolution moved by the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, I think it but fair and candid to state to this House, that on no occasion did I come to a vote with greater difficulty and uneasiness, or one which since has given me a greater cause for regret. The more I have reflected upon that subject, the more I have had reason to believe that the principles there adopted, though probably less felt in their immediate results, were infinitely more subversive of the constitution, and dangerous to the liberties of the subject, than those contained in the Bill upon the table. I object not merely to the principle of destroying all vested rights, but to the unconstitutional powers to be erected in their stead, to carry out the principles of destruction. It has been stated that these Corporations are exclusively Protestant, and the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, has argued, that in carrying out the measure of 1829, which he introduced for the relief of the Roman Catholics, it is incon-
 668
 Mr. Ward  had one fault to find with the speech of the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin. It seemed to him to be a speech, not on the motion for the third reading of the Bill, but upon the motion of the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire. The proposition of that noble Lord had reduced the ques-
 669 670 671 "No, no," 672 673 O'Connell 674 The grant to Maynooth had been followed up by one of the most atrocious, unprincipled, and diabolical measures that ever disgraced a Christian legislature, and which none but the very refuse of the Whig faction, impelled on-wards in the mad career of revolution by Popish agitators, intriguing fanatical Dissenters, and infidel Republicans, would have ever had the audacity to insult the public by proposing. 675 Whenever the clergy of the Established Church were disparagingly mentioned (and they were never alluded to by certain Members without acrimony and the bitterest invective), such discordant yells were set up as were not surpassed in a menagery of wild beasts at feeding-time, there being nothing human but their forms, and he was told that the two Whig members for that county, and the shallowpated Radical for the city, had learned the Irish yell to such perfection, that they would on such occasions, astound even a keeper at Pidcock's or Wombwell's menagery. And this was the conduct of Legislators in the first Reformed House of Commons." 676 in propriâ personâ, 677 678 679 680
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that in consequence of the personal appeal made to him by the hon. Member for St. Alban's, he felt it necessary to explain why he had not voted against the second reading of the Bill, and why he had voted for the amendment of his noble Friend, the Member for South Lancashire. By the admission of the noble Lord opposite the Corporations at present existing would by this measure be entirely swept away. The House of Commons had already sanctioned a Bill for putting an end to the existing Corporations in Ireland. The amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire, assumed that those Corporations had been already swept away, and proposed to substitute a different system in their stead. The expression, he believed, of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, was, that the Bill swept away that system which had been the source of so much mischief. Presuming then that the old Corporations were to be put an end to, it became their duty to substitute in the stead of those Corporations some system in which they could place confidence. They did not wish to see erected on the ruins of those institutions a structure of democracy, which would be the source of great political evil. They wished that those institutions should be succeeded by a Monarchical institution, instead of by a democratic system. They, of course, would have been anxious to preserve the existing institutions, but that was not the question they were now called on to discuss. He had supported the amendment that had been proposed by the noble Lord, but he would much rather have opposed the Bill altogether. He for one would have been anxious to maintain institutions which had for their object the establishment and support of a Protestant ascendancy. He would have preferred to maintain those institutions in the spirit in which they were established by their founders, namely, for the support of Protestant interests and of Protestant ascendancy. But if he was forced to decide upon a different system, he would prefer the nomination by the responsible advisers of the Crown rather than a nomination directed and influenced by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He would prefer the legitimate
 681 Mr. O'Connell yawned. 682 O'Connell: O'Connell: Morning Chronicle. 683 O'Connell
 Mr. William Roche  said, that connected as he was with the city of Limerick, which had been so often referred to in the debate on this question, than which none had figured more or had suffered more, heretofore, in the annals of municipal misgovernment, and he was sorry to add, of political perfidy also, he could not permit the Bill to leave this House without expressing his warm approval of it, considering it, as he did, a measure so much in accordance with the local rights and liberties of a free people—so congenial with our other institutions, and so characteristic of the representative principles and spirit of the constitution at large. He, therefore, hailed this measure as one imperatively called for and importantly useful—useful not only locally, but nationally—not only civilly and socially, but morally and religiously; nationally as well as lo-
 684 will, 685 686 687
 Mr. Ewart : Sir, I cannot but consider that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Oxford, has not answered satisfactorily the hon. Member for St. Alban's. The hon. Gentleman said, that the question proposed was not upon the principle of the Bill, but whether or not the Irish Corporations should be altogether abolished. Now, I ask, if the hon. Gentleman objected to the principle of the Bill, why did he not take the opportunity of opposing the second reading of the Bill? The proper course would have been not for the hon. Baronet to have contented himself merely with saying "No!" but to have divided the House upon the second reading, he would thus have vindicated himself from the charge of inconsistency, which, I must say, he has not refuted satisfactorily. Sir, the hon. Baronet, referring to the case of the reverend Joshua King, said that was only an isolated instance. I would recall to the recollection of my hon. Friend those scenes which have recently occurred in the most learned University; scenes, I think, not entirely characterized by that charitable spirit which the hon. Baronet seemed inclined to impute to all the clergy of the Church of England. Sir, a great deal has been said about the voluntary renunciation of power by the minority over the majority in Ireland. Why, Sir, has it been a voluntary renunciation? to come forward now that that power is receding from their grasp, and claim credit for relinquishing that which they were unable to retain, exhibits, I think, a degree of confidence almost unprecedented in political history. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin, has gone back into old charters, and told us what Ireland was under the old system. Sir, the abuses
 688 689 690
 Mr. Finch  would yield to no one in his desire to benefit Ireland; but, before legislating upon any question, he was bound to consider the condition of the country. It was a country divided by faction, and between it and England there was no analogy to fit them for the same institutions. In this opinion he was borne out by what the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said upon the subject of the repeal of the Union. That right hon. Gentleman had stated it as his opinion, that if there were to be a domestic legislature in Ireland the war between the two great parties in that country would be a war of extermination. Now, how much greater would be the contention if it carried itself into every town and borough of that country? How would it increase the agitation? Agitation was at present confined to Roman Catholics, who were organised for the purpose. If this measure passed, it would also extend to the Protestants, who, of course, would also organise. A reference to a book written by the hon. Member for Water-ford (Mr. Wyse) would show that there was a strong republican party in Ireland and a strong democratic feeling. Now the object of that party could only be effected by dissolving the connexion between the two countries, and getting rid of the Protestant Establishment and the Protestant aristocracy. Besides the authority of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the proceeding of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin furnished another
 691
 Mr. Montesquieu Bellew  trusted the House would excuse him while he trespassed a few minutes on their attention on the present occasion as an Irish Member, to whom the measure of Corporate Reform was naturally a matter of great interest, and also as living immediately adjoining a corporate town. Indeed, he might say, that the town he alluded to was within the limits of the county which he had the honour to represent, and that town appeared, from the Report of the Commissioners, to possess an adequate share of all the evils which are usually complained of in such localities, and to have fully participated in that indistinct perception of the rights of property which appeared such a common failing in Irish
 692 693 694
 Major Cumming Bruce  eulogised in the highest terms the speeches of the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, and the right hon. Baronet the Member for Cumberland, on a previous occasion. Notwithstanding the worn-out jokes of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and the quotations from the new drama of "Where is he now?" of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, they had proved most convincing to the public, and set the true merits of the question in the clearest point of view. Nothing but the most conscientious apprehension of danger to our religious and political institutions could have induced the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet to take that course. It was the fashion on the other side of the House to taunt the Opposition with what was called the strange conjunction which had taken place between the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, the right hon. Baronet the Member for Cum-
 695 696 697
 Mr. Vernon Smith : —Sir; The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has only stated a part of the case—the part that suited his own purpose. I shall not follow the hon. Gentleman through all the points of his argument; and through some I should be sorry to follow him After the subject had been already fully debated as a whole, and in all its parts, the debate must prove very uninteresting; but certainly the facetiousness of the hon. Gentleman has much enlivened it. The
 698 699 700 701
 Sir William Follett  would endeavour to follow the course marked out by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, by applying himself exclusively to the question then before the House, namely, whether the Bill should be read a third time; and although he was not able to vote for the instruction moved by the noble Lord (Lord Francis Egerton), he fully approved of it, and was willing to accept the challenge which the hon. Gentleman had thrown out, and to explain to the House why it was he approved of that instruction, and why he was now prepared to vote against the third reading of this Bill. He was the more anxious to do so, because the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Vernon Smith) had reiterated a charge which had been made again and again, that no hon. Member who took part in the discussion on the English Corporation Bill, and who approved of the principle on which it was founded, could withhold his acquiescence in the provisions of the measure now before the House, without being inconsistent in his conduct. Now he did not object to the principle of the English Bill, and he offered that principle no opposition, although he felt bound to object to many of the details. But he was prepared to object to the principle of the present measure. He was most desirous that the House, and the country too, should
 702 703 704 705 706 707 708 709 710 711 712 713
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the speech of the learned Member would have been an exceedingly powerful one against Catholic Emancipation, or against the extension to Ireland of Parliamentary Reform, but that those measures having been carried, it was preposterous to rely upon a policy utterly at variance with the principles on which they were founded. The hon. Member had relied upon a concession made by the Government respecting the administration of justice. The appointment of the sheriffs had been transferred to the Crown. This, said the hon. Member for Exeter, established a distinction between England and Ireland, wherefore, since you have made this distinction, not abolish corporations altogether? He would answer, that the appointment of sheriffs was an incident to the existence of corporate bodies, and not one of its elements, that
 714 715 716 717 "Then put your trust in God, my boys, And keep your powder dry!" 718 719 720 721
 Mr. Stuart Wortley : Sir, I am induced to rise, though with the greatest diffidence as may be imagined, after the brilliant speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, to rescue myself, and those who think with me on the present subject, from the attack made upon them by the hon. and learned Member, when he said that all their arguments resolved themselves into the cry of "No Popery." That I do most distinctly deny. I can assure that hon. and learned Gentleman that I am not prompted in my support of this Amendment by any Sectarian feeling for Protestant ascendancy. On the contrary, it is because I wish to see Sectarian feelings allayed in Ireland, it is because I believe that the plan which has been proposed on this side of the House will do more to alleviate those feelings than any that has hitherto been proposed, that I give my opposition to the third reading of this Bill; and I am the more anxious to state shortly the grounds of my opinion, because I was one of those who, from the first agitation of Municipal Reform in England, admitted its necessity, and was resolved to give my best support to the measure from whatever quarter it should come. I am prepared to go with the principle of the Bill to this extent, to abolish all existing Corporations; but the condition and circumstances of England are quite different from the condition and circumstances of Ireland; and the same principles of legislation on the subject are not applicable to both countries. I much fear that the adoption of a measure of this description will serve to strengthen the Sectarian spirit which already too much prevails in Ireland. Even in this country what have been already the effects produced by the Corporation Bill? An exclusive spirit already prevails in the Corporations of England; and if the object of the promoters of the Bill had been to introduce into the administration of justice the partizans of a particular Administration, they have succeeded most entirely; and in Scotland, about which so much has been said, what has been the effect there? There was one circumstance that throws some light upon that question; and that is, that since the passing of the Scotch Burghs Reform Bill, inconsequence of corporate agitation, there has again risen that spirit of religious dissension that has slept for ages; and there is excited in that country now a spirit of
 723 724
 Mr. Sheil : I did not say that Dr. Philpott's name appeared in the evidence before the Intimidation Committee.
 Mr. Wortley : I am glad that I have given the hon. and learned Gentleman the opportunity of making that statement. I will make no farther comment on that point. One of the chief arguments used by the supporters of the Bill is, that it is necessary to extend to the people of Ireland an equality of rights. Sir, is this Bill calculated to extend an equality of rights? No. Yes; I say, no. What is it you find fault with in the Protestant Corporations? Is it not their exclusiveness?—a system of exclusion turned to corruption and abuse. And that is what you are going to transfer. I say you are only transferring exclusive power; the exclusive system has been already displayed in England; how much more dangerously displayed then will it be in Ireland? You have already taught the population of Ireland by your "Commission of Public Instruction," that numbers are their strength. Nay, more; that these numbers are a legitimate justification for their appropriating the property which has been devoted to religious purposes; you are about to transfer exclusive power; in the language of the hon. Member for Northampton, from the weak to the strong, from the few to the many; you are stripping the dwarf to augment the giant, that giant whom you will one day learn to fear. For I ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, if when he triumphantly refuted the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin on the Repeal Question, would he have had no more difficulty in refusing it, if there had been laid upon the Table of the House petitions from two-thirds of the Corporate Municipalities of Ireland, bearing the Corporate Seals, praying for a Repeal of the Union? Sir, I protest against the principle laid down by the hon. Member for Liverpool, that the majority must govern this country. No, Sir, thank God, we are not yet come to that. [ Oh, oh! 725
 Mr. Gisborne  was reluctant to occupy the time of the House at that late hour of the night, and more especially after the powerful and impressive speech which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary. In the first place, he must be allowed to congratulate the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis) for appearing there, that night in his old and consistent character of a defender of ancient institutions. On a former night he certainly had been led to think, that the University of Oxford had fallen on evil times, when he saw its Representatives in that House giving, not an active, to be sure, but a passive acquiescence to the destruction of the corporate bodies in Ireland, whilst at the very same time a sort of popular election was raging within its own walls. Alluding to the policy pursued by the hon. Gentlemen now on the Opposition Benches, he expressed his firm conviction that, notwithstanding all the declarations of the Gentlemen opposite, in favour of Reform, the real principle upon which they had always acted, and upon which they were always prepared to act, was this, that any abuse or corruption had better be preserved, than by its removal to give an increased popular power. On the present occasion, the choice they had to make was between the correction of corporate abuses in Ireland, and the extension of popular power in that country. He believed, that the choice which would be made by the hon. Gentlemen opposite would be perfectly consistent with the whole of their previous career in the way of Reform. When the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, invited him to become his follower in the path of Reform, the first feeling that possessed his mind was one of a little distrust in his proposed leader. Circumstances excited a feeling of suspicion. There was nothing in the previous conduct of the right hon. Baronet, with respect to Reform, which in any degree tended to allay that feeling. He did not mean to represent the right hon. Baronet as a general anti-Reformer. He believed, that in many instances the right hon. Baronet was as ready as any one to reform abuses; but at the same time it
 726
 Sir Robert Peel  begged in the outset to claim the indulgence of the House, not only on account of the lateness of the hour, but in consequence of other disadvantages, which he felt so severely as to render it doubtful to him whether he should be able to make himself audible or intelligible. He had already, on a former occasion, endeavoured to state fully and completely what his views were upon the subject of corporate reform in Ireland; but after the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil), who he hoped was in his place—[ the hon. Member was absent 727 728 729 730 731 732 733 s. 734 735 736 primâ facie 737 738 739 l. l. l. l. 740 741
 Mr. O'Loghlen  would trouble the House with a very few words at that late hour. He was induced to trouble them at all, principally by some observations which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Sir W. Follett), relative to the original institution of the Irish Corporations. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, if he understood him
 742 743 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l., l. 744 l. no, no" from Mr. Shaw 745 746 l. ex-officio "The powers given to the sovereign and free burgesses, who are by no means identified in interest with the inhabitants, but who were elected by them, are also complained of; and the raising of the qualification of voters for the election of Commissioners and Committee, was made so high, by the Act of 1816, that it is asserted to have made them the representatives rather of a party, than of the body of the tax-payers; the effect certainly has been to exclude a large portion of the rate-payers from a control over the appointments, and expenditure in them out of the last five years. The 40 l. l. ex-officio, 747 "And be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for any of his Majesty's subjects, professing the Roman Catholic religion, to be a member of any lay body corporate, and to hold any civil office or place of trust or profit therein, and to do any corporate act, or vote in any corporate election, or other proceeding, upon taking the oath hereby appointed."
 Mr. Labouchere  did not think the hon. Gentleman could fairly impute blame to Ministers, as he had not given any notice of his intention to present this petition. Were his right hon. Friends present, he believed they would have no difficulty; whatever in giving a satisfactory answer to the statements of the hon. Gentleman, He recollected the discussion which took place last Session upon this subject. The Government then expressed their desire and readiness to equalise the duties on East and West India coffee, but they were bound at the same time to take care that it was a  bona fide
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  fully concurred in what fell from his hon. Friend who spoke last. The principle of the Bill of last Session was as he had represented it. The principle of equality of duty was that laid down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he was friendly to that principle. Duty, however, was not the only thing to be equalized. There were other burthens to which the West India growers were subject, that ought to be taken into the account. For his part, he was not a grower, but a consumer; but yet he thought Government could not, in justice, dispense with the test of  bona fide
 Mr. Goulburn  was not surprised that his hon. Friend who had just sat down should come to a different conclusion from him upon this question. He always maintained that the professing of particular political opinions should not exclude any person from holding the commission of the peace; and he only now desired that a difference of opinion from what predominated in the Government should not be deemed an insuperable bar to the magisterial office. The Government which consulted party politics in those appointments certainly did not do their duty. His hon. Friend who had last addressed the House said that representatives had a right to recommend to those appointments. No doubt the recommendations made by his hon. Friend were honestly and conscientiously made; but, however strong his impression of the fairness of his hon. Friend's motives might be, those who were not so well acquainted with him, and who knew the political opinions which he entertained might be apt to look upon his recommendation with suspicion. This must be particularly the case as regarded Rochester, where opinions were so equally balanced. He did not object to his hon. Friend's interference, but he did object to the acquiescence of Ministers, who, on so delicate a point, ought to have resorted to sources of information more free from the suspicion which must be attached to such a recommendation by all who had not the pleasure of knowing his hon. Friend as well as he knew him. If, as the noble Lord said, he made the recommendation of councils one of his principal motives in these appointments, how happened it that, whilst the recommendations of others were attended to, those from Conservative councils were neglected? With regard to the charge of taking by surprise, which had been brought against his right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth, he would say, that it was the wish of the noble Lord opposite to have the question brought forward this evening. His right hon. Friend, not wishing to disturb the progress of business, by bringing it on in a Committee of Supply, gave notice that he should take another opportunity; and it was now before the House with the concurrence of the noble Lord. He would conclude by stating it as his opin-
 796
 Mr. O'Connell : the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not speak at all last night.
 Dr. Lushington : Sir, I have listened very attentively to the whole of this debate, and certainly not less attentively to the amusing speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down than to those of any hon. Members by whom he was preceded: and I agree entirely with the last observation of the hon. Gentleman for having expressed his intention upon rising not to speak to the question; he has certainly persevered very strictly in that intention. I do not rise, Sir, to make any observations however upon that speech, for I hope I shall not be guilty of wasting the time of the House, which is so important to the nation, in a manner so utterly superfluous and unnecessary. I rise for another purpose, namely, to endeavour, if possible, to obtain some explanation of a certain statement made by the hon. Member for Bristol, which does appear to me to rest in a degree of obscurity, under which, for the dignity of the House, his Majesty's Government, and the welfare of the people, it ought not to be suffered to remain. When I listened to the speech of the hon. Baronet, I entertained an opinion respecting it, which I had the satisfaction of hearing confirmed by you, Sir. It did strike me that if it were the intention of the hon. Baronet to impute motives of corruption to my noble Friend, as a Member of this House, it was the duty of the Chair, in compliance with Parliamentary usages, at once to interpose and prevent the continuance of such observations. At the same time I agreed with the assertion, that though this charge was of a most grave nature, it was perfectly competent to the hon. Baronet, nay it was his duty, to prefer it, provided he was in possession of information to substantiate such a charge—namely, a charge against my noble Friend, of having exercised the powers invested in him as Secretary of Stale, which rendered it peculiarly incumbent on him to watch over the administration of justice, for improper purposes—of having, in fact, corruptly (for that was the expression) perverted those powers for the advancement of party interest. Now that was the charge which I understood the hon. Baronet to make: and before I go farther, I respectfully take the liberty
 805 806
 Mr. O'Connell : really I think I have a right to interfere. Nobody deserves less or cares less for the taunts of the right hon. Gentleman than myself. The hon. Member who sits near me said something which made me laugh. I believe I ought to have laughed at the right hon. Gentleman opposite, but I did not.
 Captain Berkeley  said, the hon. Baronet, the Member for Bristol, had stated, that the place which he represented was almost, if not quite, the only influential town in the kingdom where there was a Tory corporation, and it was upon the refusal of the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, to comply with the recommendations of that Tory corporation that the hon. Baronet founded his charge. Now, it did so happen that the place which he had the honour to represent was a large mercantile town, and a place of no slight importance, and there also, there was a Tory corporation. When that corporation was elected, he was strongly urged by the liberal party in the town, who were his principal supporters, to wait upon the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, and express the fears which they entertained, that the recommendations of the corporation, as regarded the appointment of Magistrates, would not be such as would give general
 824
 Mr. O'Connell —Sir; One word with respect to the magistrates of Leicester. I remarked that the right hon. Baronet made no personal charge against any of them. He indeed stated, that they voted against the sitting Members; but he went no farther. The hon. Member for Leicester has thrown a new ingredient into the debate. The hon. Gentleman has assailed them on account of their religious opinions. Now I did hope that we might have been spared such a subject to-night. Dissenters have as much right to be magistrates, or members of Town Councils, as the hon. Gentleman himself, or anybody else. I did hope that the days had gone by when a man's religious opinions were to be made a ground of charge or quarrel against him. Well, these gentlemen were unanimously selected by the Town Council of Leicester; and the only thing against them is, that they voted for the unsuccessful candidates at the last election. But was any of those who voted for them accused (however falsely) of bribery? If not, I don't see how it can be made a matter of accusation against any Gentlemen, that they voted on that side of the question. Sir; the debate to-night has assumed various shapes. We have had three kinds of public exhibitions—tragedy, comedy, and farce. The performance commenced with all the tragic dignity of an impeachment of a Minister. Then we had the amusing comedy, or interlude, between the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) and the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Richards); and, finally, we had the broad farce exhibited by the last-named Gentleman in his reply. But various and amusing as the topics of debate have been, I think it has also been very useful—useful in this,
 825 826 827
 Mr. Scarlett  referred to the circumstances attending the selection of Magistrates for Guildford, where, out of three persons put in nomination, a deaf person was selected by the Government. In the city of Norwich also, there was evidence of the prevalence of partisan policy. A list of twenty persons was prepared, in the framing of which the names of all the truly respectable and influential Conservatives qualified to act as Magistrates were studiously set aside, on a system of exclusive dealing no ways creditable to the operation of the Municipal Reform Act, and in their stead he found placed on the list only eight Conservatives, of whom two were barristers, two attorneys, two who declined to act, and two more who were superannuated. He considered the preparation of such a list for Norwich, positive evidence of great unfairness existing there in that respect; and he hoped the noble Lord would yet inquire and ascertain from intelligent and impartial persons who were really the fittest to be chosen for the important office of Magistrates in these corporations.
 Lord Granville Somerset  wished to know from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), whether it was on account of the private character of the individuals named that the noble Lord had refused to sanction the recommendation of the Bristol Magistrates. He was the more anxious to have an answer upon that point, because in the early part of the debate words had fallen from the noble Lord, which induced him to think that the refusal had been grounded upon the private character of the gentlemen recommended, and with respect to some of them, he felt that the noble Lord had thrown out something like a very grave insinuation. He did not pretend to know all the gentlemen who had been recommended; but he knew two or three of them independent of Mr. Alderman Daniel, and with respect to them, he would state, that he defied the noble Lord, or any one else in that House justly, to state anything that could be properly regarded as reproachful against them. The noble Lord stated broadly, that he objected to them on political grounds. If the noble Lord assured him, that that was the sole ground of objection, he should rest perfectly satisfied; but, if the noble Lord had any accusation of a personal character to prefer against them, it was only right that the parties should know what those accusations were, in order that they might have the opportunity of satisfactorily explaining. He trusted that the noble Lord would give him a distinct answer.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the noble Lord had quite misunderstood him, if he supposed, that in any explanation he had given of the circumstances alluded to, he had meant to charge those gentlemen with anything like unfitness for the office of Magistrate, or to insinuate anything of a personal nature against them. But in answering a question like that put by the right hon. Baronet, it was obviously impossible for a person, in his (Lord John Russell's) situation, to enter into the various reasons that had induced him to make such and such appointments. If it were possible, it would perhaps be highly impolitic.
 828
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that he did not retain any idea of personal imputation in the charges which had been brought against his official conduct in this affair.
 Lord John Russell  rose to explain. If any fault had been committed in bringing on this discussion to-day, that fault, certainly did not rest with the right hon. Member for Tamworth, but was owing entirely to himself. He had been informed by the right hon. Baronet that he intended asking some questions with respect to the appointment of Municipal Magistrates, and perceiving that those questions materially affected himself in respect to his conduct as a responsible Minister of the Crown, he certainly felt most anxious that those questions should be heard and disposed of before the holidays. The noble Lord then proceeded: I have no right, nor do I pretend to any right, to find fault with the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Vyvyan) for having uttered the expressions which he has thought proper to make use of. As a Member of Parliament, the hon. Baronet has a perfect right to use such expressions in respect to the conduct of a responsible Minister of the Crown. But I do say that I shall have a right to find fault with the hon. Baronet, that I shall have a right to cast censure on the conduct of the hon. Baronet as a calumniator, if having accused me of corrupt conduct, he does not immediately, and without loss of time, bring that question to a decision. I am ready to abide the issue of that decision, knowing as I do that that charge of corrupt conduct is false and unfounded.
 Lord John Russell .—The hon. Baronet is mistaken as to Bath. The number of magistrates appointed to Bath is twelve.
 Lord John Russell , in consequence of what had been said upon the subject in another place, moved that there be laid before the House a copy of a circular letter from the Under Secretary of the Home Department, dated in October last, and addressed to the Mayor or chief officer of any boroughs contained in the schedules to the English Corporations Bill passed last Session.
 Lord John Russell  said, he certainly would much rather the right hon. Gentleman brought the subject under the consideration of the House, than that the charge, conveying an imputation on his Majesty's Government for the manner in which they had selected Magistrates under the Municipal Corporations Act, should be made where he had no opportunity of giving an explanation. With regard to this question of the appointment of Magistrates, it would be recollected by the House, that the first Bill introduced on the subject of Corporations provided, in conformity, as he and his colleagues thought, with the principle of the Report of the Commissioners, not certainly that a portion of the councillors of these municipal boroughs should themselves be the justices, but that the two powers should not be totally disjoined; and in order to give confidence to the inhabitants of the towns in the administration of justice, that the persons nominated to be placed in the commission of the peace should be persons who had been previously recommended by the town-council. That principle, up to the end of the discussions which then took place, he thought the most favourable to govern the nomination of the Magistrates. When the Bill was last in the House, when the amendments of the Lords were last discussed, it would be remembered that he stated, in conformity with what he understood, and with what, as was understood by friends and colleagues of his, had been stated in another place by those who framed and supported the amendment, that it would be as competent to the Crown, after the amendment was carried, to take the advice of the town-councils as it was for the Lord Chancellor to take the opinion of the lords-lieutenant of counties. It was partly on the faith of that declaration of his that a great majority of this House, who thought the virtue of the Bill had been a good deal impaired by the alterations, consented to adopt those amendments; that majority expecting that in the beginning, at least, the clause would be acted on in the spirit of the clause as it had been sent up to the Lords, and not as it had been amended by their Lord-
 776 777 778 779 Cheers. 780 781 782 Robert Peel 783 Robert Peel: 784 785 786
 Mr. Poulett Thomson , I am at a loss to know what the hon. Baronet, the Member for Bristol means? If he means to say that my noble Friend, and the Government to which he belongs, have acted so as to advance the interests of their party, meaning by those words the great interests which are so well understood to be connected with that party—that is, the interests which he, my noble Friend, and his party have ever considered just and right—then I fully admit the charge of the hon. Baronet. But if the hon. Baronet means, what the words indeed seemed to imply both to me and other Members in the House—if the hon. Baronet means to insinuate that my noble Friend and the Government, in making these appointments, have been actuated by corrupt motives, then let the hon. Baronet declare that the words he has used came from him in a moment of heat and excitement, and nobody will make more full allowance for words uttered under such circumstances than myself. Let the hon Baronet do this; or if not, let him follow out the charge in a manner which becomes him as a Member of Parliament—let him adopt that course which an honest Member of Parliament is bound to follow, and let him lay upon the Table a particular and distinct accusation against my noble Friend and the Government to which he belongs. One of these two courses is open to the hon. Baronet, and one of them he will take, unless he means that very little care and very little attention indeed shall be paid to anything he may hereafter say.
 Mr. Charles Wood  thought, that if the hon. Baronet would consent to repeat the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down, and with him say that all he meant by his observations was to suggest that the noble Lord had given a preference to his own party—a preference of which he disapproved—the House ought to feel satisfied. As the hon. Baronet's words now stood, they certainly went much further than the noble Lord represented them; and if the noble Lord's version of the hon. Baronet's meaning was the correct one, it was in every sense incumbent on him so to declare it.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  rose for the purpose of moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the state and condition of the Irish canals. It was not his object to interfere in any manner with the private affairs of these companies; he meant to confine himself solely to that system of combination, monopoly, and intimidation, which had, for a long period, prevailed on them, through which many lives had been lost, and by which the country was deprived of the advantages which might naturally have been expected as the necessary consequence of their formation. He did not consider such an inquiry could be fairly objected to; and when the House, in addition, would take into consideration the very large sums of public money which had been granted to both these bodies, 400,000 l. l. 830 831 l. l. l. 832 l. 833
 Mr. Shaw  seconded the motion on a subject which, he was happy to believe, every Irishman would gladly combine to promote.
 Mr. Grote  rose to order, and expressed a hope that the right hon. Baronet would not, under the influence of his party, be allowed to make a second speech.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  observed, that the hon. Member for Bath had accused his right hon. Friend of being influenced by hypocritical motives; and therefore, in his opinion, his right hon. Friend was perfectly in order and had a right to vindicate himself.
 The Speaker  stated that, according to the orders of the House, no Member, except under peculiar circumstances, was entitled to make a second speech. The House, however, would permit any hon. Member to speak a second time if it were necessary.
 The Speaker  wished to express his hope, now that the sense of the House had been so fully developed on the topic before them, that the noble Lord would feel the propriety of acknowledging that nothing had been uttered by the hon. Baronet to imply a charge of a personal nature, or which would call for any further solicitude on the part of the noble Lord in reference to that portion of the debate.
 The Speaker  said, that if the hon. Member for Knaresborough made the supposition alluded to for the purpose of introducing or reviving the discussion which had terminated at an early hour of that morning, he was out of order. But if he considered his supposition pertinent to the question before the House, he was quite in order.
 The Speaker : I beg to say a few words. So far as concerns the rules of the House I have felt under very considerable difficulty on the present occasion; but it is desirable that this matter should not be suffered to remain without being brought to some clear understanding. I will first state my apprehension of the circumstances of this case. I heard the hon. Baronet state, that the conduct of the noble Lord had been corrupt, and hearing those words, I was in doubt whether the hon. Baronet did not mean to say, that the noble Lord had acted from corrupt motives. Understanding the observations in this sense, my first impression was, that I should rise and remind the hon. Baronet that no hon. Member was not justified in attributing
 798
 The Speaker  complied with this request.
 Mr. Richards : I admire much, Sir, the economical feeling, if I may so term it, of the hon. Gentleman opposite with regard to the time of the public, particularly when I recollect that he so constantly wastes that time with the most useless motions. I have not addressed a single speech to the House for a considerable time, but the hon. Gentleman opposite speaks  ad 803 nauseam.
 Mr. Richards  resumed: well, then, I'll suppose the observation to have been made use of by the right hon. Gentleman in some speech uttered by him.
 Mr. Richards  reiterated the charges against the Government in respect to these appointments; and accused not only the noble Lord the Home Secretary, but the whole party, of corruption. He charged them all with conspiracy, with a settled design against the constitution of the country, with an intention to change the monarchical Government of the country into a republic. Much had been said of changes in opinion. Now, he was persuaded that it was much more candid in a man to change his opinion when he was convinced it was wrong, than blindly to adhere to it. Surely when a man had discovered that what he took to be pearls and diamonds were nothing better than French beads and Bristol stones, he was at liberty to proclaim his error. In the debate of last night.—"Why, I rose (said the hon. Gentleman) several times last night, and did not get an opportunity of speaking;"—there was one expression which he was most anxious to refer to, and which was used by the right hon. Gentleman in the debate of last night.
 Mr. Richards : I bow with great deference to the decision of the Chair; and I quite agree with you, Sir, that that's the point. My objection is, that the order before us has arisen from revolution. The hon. Member continued to observe, that it did not yet suit the tactics of hon. Gentlemen opposite to have the King elected, though out of doors the election of the House of Lords was a subject much agitated. Talk indeed of the imputation of corrupt motives as a high crime and misdemeanour where an hon. Gentleman, who was a conspicuous Member on the other side of the House, dealt in a wholesale charge of corrupt motives against the body of noble persons who were as independent, as anxious for the happiness of the people, and for the conservation of the monarchy, as that House. He admitted, that he did not rise for the purpose of speaking to the question before the House;
 804
 Mr. Richards  wished to speak in explanation. He did not doubt, for one moment, that the hon. Member believed what he stated with regard to him and his constituents at Knaresborough; but he could assure him, and the House (and for corroboration he appealed to his hon. Colleague in the representation of that borough, who fortunately chanced to be
 814 No, no.
 Mr. Roebuck : although, Sir, since I have been in this House, I have become so hardened, as never to feel any astonishment at anything which is done in this House. Yet, I confess my feelings on this night have been somewhat tried, at seeing the right hon. Member for Tamworth after having spent a long life in supporting a system which was based upon exclusion, on a sudden seized with a most wondrous fit of virtue, and taking upon himself the office of grand protector of justice! Until the Magistrates began to be appointed by the people, he only cared about the political opinions of those appointed to the
 817 818 819 820
 Mr. Roebuck  observed, that if the right hon. Baronet was going to speak against him, he hoped the House would allow him to answer.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that although he was quite sure he had a right to reply, the defence of the right hon. Baronet had been so dull and weak, that of that right he did not think it necessary to avail himself.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had risen several times in the course of this discussion, when, if he had been fortunate enough to have caught the Speaker's eye, he intended to have moved, that the words used by the hon. Baronet opposite should be taken down. He had risen at the very moment the words had been uttered for that purpose, because he thought the words of such importance that they ought to be brought under the notice of the House. He really did regret the tone and temper the hon. Baronet had displayed. He did not complain of the right hon. Member for Tamworth, who had done no more than was his right, to express himself upon parts of the conduct of the Government which he thought objectionable. The noble Lord bad stated, upon testimony not to be contradicted, that he determined upon a rule for his conduct before he knew the turn that the elections would take, and had thus shown his fairness. He gave the noble Lord credit for the manly way in which he had asserted, that his opinion, as to the parties whose recommendation in the appointment of Magistrates should be taken, had not been altered since the Bill was sent into the House of Lords,—when has said that though, by the letter of the law, the election was left to his Majesty, he would take into full consideration the recommendations of the councils of the different boroughs. These were strange times; at least he thought they were when he heard the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, declare it to have been al-
 799 800 l. l. l. 801 Richard Vyvyan.
 Mr. Bernal  very much lamented that the hon. Baronet had, in discussing this subject, been excited to what he must consider an unnecessary degree of heat. From the manner in which the subject had been opened by the right hon. Baronet, he certainly never could have expected, that it could have led to the imputation of corrupt motives. The tone adopted by the hon. Member for Bristol, was one not befitting the subject; for if the hon. Member for Bristol entertained seriously what he had stated—if he had felt seriously the sentiments which he had just given utterance to—he said then it was the duty of the hon. Baronet to come forward and impeach his noble Friend. A gentleman of the intelligence and ability of the hon. Baronet—the Representative of a city—the Representative of a large and populous constituency—the Representative of 100,000
 793 794 regime 795
 Mr. T. S. Duncombe  rose to order, and called upon the Speaker to read the question before the House.
 Mr. T. S. Duncombe  continued: now I put to you, Sir, to say whether the arguments of the hon. Gentleman, with respect to the monarchy and the House of Lords, have anything to do with the question before the House?
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  felt quite assured that the present debate had assumed a character not contemplated by the right hon. Baronet who introduced it, and that no one present more regretted the cause of the discussion than that right hon. Baronet himself. With respect to the subject more immediately before the House—he meant the accusation of the hon. Baronet the member for Bristol—his opinion was, that no retractation ought to be called for. It would be quite unworthy of him to retract; but, nevertheless, he thought he ought to be called upon to say whether or not he would substantiate on some future day the charge he had made. When he heard the hon. Baronet's speech, he confessed that, as an anxious supporter of the present Government, he had felt some apprehension there was some ground for a charge against the noble Lord, and upon the hasty reflection of the moment, he had caught at the conclusion that the noble Lord had abused some prerogatives of the Crown, or violated some Act of Parliament, and committed some deed of flagrant injustice in seeking the advancement of his party; but upon its subsequently appearing that the "head and front of his offending" was contained in the fact, that he had declined to appoint an old superannuated Tory to the magistracy, that there was no prerogative of the Crown abused, no Act of Parliament violated, and no deed of injustice committed, he felt more inclined to treat the whole affair as a subject for ridicule, than attach to it the importance it had since received. Upon the general subject to which the discussion related, he would not detain the House further than to give a piece of advice to the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. That right hon. Baronet, in the course of his observations, had declared that he always judged of a man's principles by the nature of the vote he gave upon the occasion of elections for Representatives in Parliament, or, in other words, that he always set down as Tories those who voted for Tory candidates, and calculated as Whigs and Radicals the supporters of individuals representing those principles. Now this he could assure the right hon. Baronet was a most fallacious test, and he should advise him not in future to take it as a standard. Perhaps a better exemplification of his position could not be afforded than was supplied by the case of the hon. Member
 813
 Mr. T. S. Duncombe  should be quite ready to retract anything he had stated respecting the hon. Member for Knaresborough (Mr. Richards), if his hon. Colleague would rise in his place and state to the House that the hon. Member's votes in Parliament were not totally inconsistent with the professions he had made upon the hustings.
 Mr. Thomas Gladstone  said, that the borough of Leicester was by no means well pleased with the Magisterial appointments of the noble Lord; and he could inform the House, in addition, that an Address to his Majesty on the subject, signed by a great majority of the respectable inhabitants of the town, was ready for presentation at the first opportunity. Of the ten persons who had been appointed to the Magistracy in Leicester, nine had voted for his opponents in the last election for the borough. Of these nine, eight were very active supporters of their cause. Besides this, five of them were Socinians, one a Baptist, three were Churchmen, and one of them was of very doubtful character. He did not mean as to his morals, but the character of his creed; and he wished to be understood as casting no reflection on the gentleman. If that was not enough for the measure of the noble Lord he did not know what was. After a few more such specimens of it the constituencies of the country would be less than ever inclined to repose confidence in the Government. He had been identified with charges made against the noble Lord by the hon. Member for Bristol by the cheer he had uttered in support of it; but he wished to qualify that identification by an interpretation, similar, if not in terms, in strict sentiment, to that afforded by his noble Friend, the Member for Liverpool.
 Mr. Thomas Gladstone , in explanation, denied that he had intended to make difference of religion a matter of reproach against any man.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that the best way of advancing the object the hon. Gentleman had in view was, to begin by obtaining from the engineers who had charge of the improvements in that district, the preliminary information as to the levels of the broad water on the Upper Shannon, &c. That done, the hon. Member should have his best assistance. But as any attempt to effect the object of his motion, at present, must be premature, and would only confuse the whole proceedings for the improvement of the lower part of the river Shannon, he must advise the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was always ready to acknowledge the authority of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Wynn) in all matters concerning the rules of that House; but on this occasion he thought he should be able to prove that his right hon. Friend had committed mistakes of no ordinary description. He begged to call the attention of the House, and of the hon. Baronet, to a distinction which it was very natural should be clearly understood by Parliament. He
 808 809 810
 Mr. Ewart  rose, but the call for Mr. Lawson still continued. When silence was restored, he proceeded to say, that if
 815 interregnum per sallum, 816
 Mr. Ewart  rose to order. He put it to the hon. Gentleman and the House, whether it was not out of order for the hon. Gentleman not only to refer to a speech in a debate of last night, which had no connection with the subject of the present discussion, but even to go the length of inventing a speech for the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He, for one, could never consent to have the public time thus wasted when business of importance was to be brought under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Ewart  was quite aware that the immediate author of those appointments was the then Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. It was, nevertheless, the act of the Administration, at that time existing, and the right hon. Gentleman had not at all disputed the correctness of his assertion as to their being all Tory Magistrates.
 Sir John Wrottesley  put it to the right hon. Baronet, whether it was desirable, under the circumstances of the case, to enter on such a subject?
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  acquiesced in the Speaker's decision, that nothing personally invidious was implied in his charges against the noble Lord's exercise of power on this occasion.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan .—That would not justify the noble Lord, for if the principle of regulating the number of Magistrates by the extent of population were to be admitted, if they gave twelve Magistrates to a population of fifty thousand, they ought at least to have allowed twenty-four Magistrates to a population of a hundred and four thousand. Independent of population, there were many other circumstances which entitled the city of Bristol to greater consideration. It had much more business than Bath—it was a great commercial town, it was a seaport, and a place of considerable local importance. The conduct of the noble Lord with respect to Bristol, and the absence of any satisfactory explanations, made it incumbent on him, as the Representative of Bristol, to rise in his place, and protest against the proceedings. He felt it necessary to allude to what had taken place in the case of Mr. Alderman Daniel. He had hoped that the noble Lord would have been able to give some satisfactory, or something approaching to a satisfactory, explanation on this point. The noble Lord had stated, that he objected to Alderman Daniel not on account of politics, but because he was too old to discharge the functions of a Magistrate in so extensive a place as Bristol. Now, what were the
 788 No, no. 789 "The party spirit which pervades the municipal councils, extends itself to the Magistracy which is appointed by those bodies, and from their members; The Magistracy are usually chosen from the aldermen, and the aldermen are generally political partisans. Hence, even in those cases in which injustice is not abso-
 790 791 792
 Sir Richard Vyvyan , First of all I admit that I used the words "corrupt conduct;" and that I used them in reference to the noble Lord. I did accuse the noble Lord of corrupt conduct; and I used the words corrupt conduct in this sense, namely, in the case where a Minister of the Crown acts with partiality in a matter of justice, when he uses the powers with which he is invested corruptly for the advancement of the interests of his party. Now I repeat, that the noble Lord's conduct ever since he has been a responsible Minister of the Crown, has been more or less calculated to advance the interests of the party to which he belongs. I mean
 797
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, that the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had risen for the purpose of replying to the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. How had the noble Lord replied to the allegations and the arguments of his right hon. Friend? Many points had been alluded to by the right hon. Baronet to which the noble Lord had, it seemed, felt it unnecessary even to advert. He had not touched upon the case of Leicester. [Lord  John Russell: 787
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the noble Lord had made the motion in the hands of the Speaker, partly with a view, he believed, that he might have the opportunity of soliciting from the noble Lord those expla-
 763 764 765 766 767 768 769 770 771 772 773 774 775
 Sir Robert Peel , with respect to the charge brought against him of having brought forward this motion out of his turn, to the prejudice of other hon. Members who had entered motions for to-night, hoped he might be allowed to explain in order to show that that charge was not well founded. The facts were these:—He gave notice last night of his intention to bring this subject forward, and at the same time stated, that it would probably be very late before he should be able to do so. The noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department expressed his anxiety that the subject should be brought
 802
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to be allowed to say a few words in explanation. A part of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bath was utterly inconsistent with fact; another part was founded on a gross misrepresentation of his opinions and conduct; and the remainder exhibited as flagrant a proof of at least as much hypocrisy and simulated love of justice as the hon. Member had attributed to him.
 Sir Robert Peel  would be the last man to throw any impediment in the way of the
 821
 Sir Robert Peel  was resuming, when
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that whether or not he were permitted to proceed must depend entirely on the pleasure of the House. He had, however, scarcely ever heard a speech containing so much vituperative matter as the speech of the hon. Member for Bath, directed against a Member who was placed in such peculiar circumstances that he had no right to reply. Although, therefore, he was aware that he was trespassing upon the ordinary rules of the House, he solicited their permission to say a few words. The hon. Gentleman had declared, that as Secretary of State, he had rendered his official power subservient to his political views in the appointment of Magistrates. That he denied. He had never, directly or indirectly, done any such thing. When in office, he had had repeated applications from Members of Parliament on the subject; but he had never sought any political object in the appointment. The appointment of the county Magistrates rested, in fact, with the Lord Chancellor; but he had never used his influence or his connexion with that dignitary, to procure the appointment of individuals as Magistrates for political purposes. A part of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman was founded on a gross misrepresentation of what he had said. The hon. Gentleman asserted that his (Sir R. Peel's) sole complaint was, that the people, having obtained power in the appointment of the Magistracy, were allowed to exercise it. That was not his complaint. His complaint was this: that where the people had exercised their power in the further-
 822
 Mr. Williams Wynn  observed, that when a personal charge was made against an hon. Member, the House always allowed the individual attacked to defend himself.
 Mr. Williams Wynn : in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, upon the subject of the appointments to the Liverpool Magistracy, said, that for those appointments he, in capacity of Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, was entirely responsible for having made them. In justice to himself, however, he was bound to observe, that before making them he had submitted them to the Earl of Derby, the Lord-Lieutenant of the county, and two of the Judges going upon the circuit, who all concurred in describing the individuals nominated as fit and proper persons for the situation.
 Mr. Wynn  resumed. All he would say in reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman was, that his heart was not so seared to the effects of acrimonious expressions as that of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and if it were, he had no vow registered in heaven to protect him against the consequences. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by saying, that the expression so much commented upon, was one which had been used with reference to every administration within his recollection, and merely meant that the noble Lord had improperly consulted the interest of his party in the appointments complained of.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  observed, that he was always most anxious to restrain hon. Members from trenching upon the forms of the House. He was quite willing to admit that the phrase which had occasioned the present discussion was somewhat opposed to the rules of the House; because though the terms "corruption and corrupting," were, strictly speaking, Parliamentary; and though he believed they were in this instance meant to convey an imputation of using the influence of the Crown unduly, for the purpose of promoting the interests of a particular party, they
 807 Hear, hear O'Connell smiled.
 Lord Morpeth  thought the main object of the motion would be better obtained, when the time would arrive for entertaining it effectively, by separating it from the latter portion of the Resolution.
 Viscount Sandon  contended that the case under consideration was one of no private or personal nature, and that the hon. Baronet could not, with any justice, be expected to make the admission sought of him. Of the noble Lord in his public capacity, the hon. Baronet, in his public capacity, had expressed an opinion upon certain official acts, and it was certainly the first time he had ever heard of a Minister of the Crown being so delicate and thin-skinned as, upon a general charge of corruption being made against him, to demand of the party adducing it to bring forward some specific charge, or admit that he had given expression to an assertion which was not founded in fact. To say that a Minister of the Crown, in the exercise of some particular duty, had acted from motives of corruption, would be unquestionably a specific charge; but when the hon. Baronet merely gave it as his individual opinion, that the general policy pursued by the Government, to which he was opposed, was corrupt, there was no charge implied which deserved the consideration of a moment. All that the hon. Baronet had said of the noble Lord was, that in the performance of the duty of his office he had consulted his own party in preference to that opposed to him, and that the noble Lord had done so even his own Friends admitted. There was no charge of corruption in this; and it was nothing more than every Administration had in turn been exposed to. The Administration of Lord Grey had repeatedly been accused of giving too much preference to their own party in the selection of Lord-lieutenants of counties; but the Members of that Government had never deemed such accusations worthy of even a reply. With regard to the policy of giving the Secretary of State for the Home Department a discretionary power to alter and amend the lists sent up from the town-council, he thought there could not be a difference of opinion. The discretion was undoubtedly a good one, and he did not hesitate to say that, in some respects, the noble Lord opposite had made a good use of it. In the case of a Corporation he might, for instance, mention that upon twenty-four names of extreme liberal poli-
 811
 Viscount Sandon  said, he certainly was consulted on the occasion of the appointments in question; but he could state that they were made without any reference to political or party feeling.
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the Bill; and moved that it be read a third lime on this day six months. It was one of the speculations of the day, the shareholders being chiefly resident. These railway gentlemen drove their lines through a man's grounds and gardens without even asking his consent, so that the old saying every man's Louse is his castle, was no longer true, for though the King could not enter it, these railway, speculators could, and pull it down about his ears.
 Mr. A. Trevor  seconded the amendment. According to all the information which he had been able to obtain, the case of the gentleman alluded to by his hon. and gallant Friend, appeared to be one of peculiar hardship. He admitted, that private interests must yield to the general interest of the community at large, but the former ought not to be unnecessarily injured. The line which the gentleman in question wished the company to adopt, instead of that which they had determined on, would not occasion more than a minute and-a-half's delay. If ever there was a case in which the House was called upon to protect the rights of an individual, the present was such a case. Whatever might be the fate of the amendment, he should have great pleasure in standing by his hon. and gallant Friend. It was not the first time he had had that high honour.
 Mr. Hutt : The Committee had reported, and he thought justly, in favour of the Bill. There was no line more advantageous, and the chief opposition came from a gentleman whose house was not approached by the railway nearer than three quarters of a mile.
 Colonel Thompson  hoped the House would not allow an individual to defeat a measure of public utility, which the Committee approved of.
 Mr. Warburton  did not understand the hon. Member as bringing forward an objection to Sunday travelling in general; and, undoubtedly, the mode of locomotion upon railways was the least objectionable of all, as employing the fewest number of men, and the least amount of labour. He should oppose the bringing up of this clause.
 Mr. Hume  could not conceive what necessity there was for this clause. The proprietors of the railroad had full power to prevent Sunday travelling upon it if they pleased.
 Mr. Robinson  said, the hon. Member should bring forward a general proposition, if any, upon the subject, and not introduce it in reference to a particular railway.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought the hon. Member had better not press the motion,
 845
 Mr. O'Connell  was surprised that hon. Members should object to Sunday travelling on the railway, seeing that it would be attended with this one great advantage —that it would enable persons to select among a greater number of churches.
 Mr. Trevor  said, there might be a great deal of wit in the hon. and Learned Member's observation, but there was no argument. It was very desirable that the same sort of exemption should be extended to all railways.
 Mr. Potter  said, he hoped the House would not sanction this attempt to prevent Sunday travelling.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would not vote for the hon. Member's motion. The projectors of this Bill made loud protestations about the wonderful liberality of their intentions and their desire to afford opportunities of cheap travelling to the poor, yet by this clause they sought to hinder the lower classes from availing themselves of this cheap travelling on the very day most open to them. The projectors themselves, he would dare to say, would have no scruple about travelling on Sundays in their carriages and on horseback. The short of the matter was, that their professed liberality was ail a pretence; they cared for nobody but themselves, and he would pronounce of this, as of most other such speculations, that it was a mere selfish project.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he stood in a rather peculiar situation on the subject of the Bill. The religious classes in Hull knew there were special reasons why, if any invasion were attempted of their freedom or privileges, he must of necessity be the first to join them, and the last to quit. But he must say to them distinctly, he could not support them in their unreasonableness. He did not see that any such invasion was attempted here. There was no endeavour, that he was aware of, to force any of his worthy friends, the Methodists of Hull, to travel on this railway on Sundays against their consent; and if a clause to that effect should ever be proposed, they might depend upon its meeting his most strenuous opposition. From what he had just heard he gathered that he was right in his persuasion, that the proprietors of the railway had power to make any regulations for the travelling on it they pleased. Now, if this House was
 846
 Sir William Molesworth  said, he wished to aska question of the noble Lord the Secretary at War. Having read the decision of a court-martial, in which it was stated that there had been introduced into the 15th regiment of Hussars "a practice which (the court-martial said) cannot be considered otherwise than revolting to every proper and honourable feeling of a gentleman, and as being certain to create disunion and to be most injurious to his Majesty's service;" having read, likewise, in a general order from the Horse Guards, that "his Majesty has been pleased to approve and confirm the finding of the court;" and likewise that "his Majesty has been pleased to order that Lieutenant-Colonel Lord Brudenell shall be removed from the command of the 15th Hussars;" he wished to ask the Secretary at War whether, without this decision being previously cancelled, without its being solemnly proclaimed to the army as being most unjust and false, it can possibly be true that the noble Lord in question is appointed to the lieutenant-colonelcy of the 11th Light Dragoons? If it be true that such is the case, he wished to know likewise whether the Secretary at War had approved of and sanctioned this appointment?
 Viscount Howick , in answer to the
 847 848
 Mr. Hume  said, that the noble Lord having very honestly and candidly stated that he was not responsible for these matters, he should beg leave to ask the noble Lord, in the name of the Commons of England, who was. It was fit that somebody should be responsible to the country for the management and control of the army, and moreover, that the country should know who that responsible person was. The government, responsible to the country for the general conduct of its affairs, intrusted to a noble Lord the management and superintendence of the internal affairs of the army. He (Mr. Hume) wished it to be understood, whether that noble Lord was independent of all responsibility, and whether his acts, as Commander-in-chief, were to be subject to no control from any quarter whatsoever?
 849
 Lord John Russell  would offer a few observations upon what had been asked, without, however, going much into the question, upon which he rather agreed with the hon. Member, in reference to the powers of the Secretary at War as regarded the Commander-in-chief. But so far as regarded appointments and promotions in the army, the discretion was placed, and he must say by no means improperly placed, in the Commander-in-chief. If the Commander-in-chief, being the person of the highest station in the army, and necessarily acquainted with the merits of the different officers serving in it, did his duty, he was responsible for the appointments and promotions made by him, his Majesty's Ministers, the First Lord of the Treasury, being responsible for advising his Majesty to adopt the recommendations of the Commander-in-chief in such cases. If, on the contrary, his Majesty's Ministers were of opinion that the discretion so lodged in the Commander-in-chief was wrongly exercised, that it was not exercised in such a manner as to benefit the army and do credit to the service, he should say the responsibility, in such a case, fell upon the Ministers, for not advising his Majesty to remove the Commander-in-chief. So that, in his (Lord John Russell's) view of the matter, while Lord Hill continued Commander-in-chief, he was, no doubt, responsible for the due execution of his duties, and for taking care that all the appointments and promotions made by him, should be founded upon his unbiassed judgment of the merits of the respective officers, and their position in the service. For the general discretion, and confidence placed by Government in the person holding the office of Commander-in-chief, he (Lord John Russell) was ready to take his share of responsibility, for he thought that if a Ministry were of opinion that the person holding so important an office was not properly and conscientiously performing his duties, it would be they, and not the Commander-in-chief, who
 850
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether he were right in understanding the noble Lord to have said, that the Commander-in-chief was responsible for the promotions he made, and the Ministers of the Crown were responsible for the acts of the Commander-in-chief. Then, if so, he wished to ask the noble Lord to inform him whether the act of promoting Lord Brudenell received the Ministers' sanction and approbation.
 Lord John Russell  thought he had explained the position of Ministers and the position of the Commander-in-chief. His explanation was, that the Commander-in-chief was responsible for the particular acts which he advised, and the Ministers were responsible for advising the Crown to place confidence in him. With respect to the particular act of the appointment of Lord Brudenell, he would apply to that what he had stated as to the appointments of the Commander-in-chief generally. He thought it would be exceedingly inconvenient if on each occasion of the appointment to a lieutenant-colonelcy, or other commission in a regiment, it became the practice that those who held civil situations in his Majesty's service, should intrude their opinions on the Commander-in-chief in respect to the military services of the officer. As to the case of Lord Brudenell, he, like his noble Friend (Lord Howick) was informed by Lord Hill that such an appointment was in contemplation before Lord Hill had decided on making it; but certainly he did not think proper, any more than his noble Friend, to inform Lord Hill that he had formed an opinion as to whether Lord Brudenell should or should not be placed in the situation of lieutenant-colonel of a regiment; but he did make some observations that were similar to those made by his noble Friend. He said, he thought that it was a question for the discretion of the Commander-in-chief. He had understood, from what he recollected of the circumstances, that his right hon. Friend the Member for Coventry, who was Secretary at War, asked at the time of Lord Brudenell's removal from the command of the 15th Hussars, whether he was to understand that the Commander-in-chief would not think fit to appoint Lord Brudenell to such a situation as he now held; and he believed Lord Hill stated to his right hon. Friend, that he did consider Lord Brude-
 851
 Sir Henry Hardinge  entirely concurred in opinion with the Noble Lord who last spoke, and also with the Noble Lord who was Secretary at War, as regarded their responsibility, for the appointment under consideration. There was certainly a general responsibility, and the special responsibility rested with the Commander-in-chief. He agreed with the Noble Lord that if the Commander-in-chief conducted the affairs of the army in such a way as not to secure the confidence of the Government, it was a fit subject for the consideration of the Government whether they should not advise his Majesty to remove him from his office. He admitted the principle, and thought that was the mode in which the affairs of the army ought to be carried on. But he had heard that night, as on former occasions, that Lord Hill did so conduct himself as to merit the confidence of the Government. Under these circumstances in his opinion the act of Lord Hill was an act which was approved by the Government, inasmuch as the Government did not interfere in the individual appointments of the Commander-in-chief, unless those appointments were such as they disapproved of; in which case they were bound to remonstrate, and, if necessary, apply the remedy of removing the Commander-in-chief from his office. As to this particular case the hon. Member for Cornwall stated that Lord Brudenell was removed from the command of the 15th Hussars in consequence of the sentence
 852
 The Speaker  suggested to the hon. and gallant Gentleman the propriety of not entering into particulars.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was not going to enter into the particulars. He was only about to state, that the noble Lord, when he was removed from the command of the 15th Hussars, in consequence of the verdict, did petition the King praying that he would allow him to be tried by a general court martial, and declaring that he never had—
 Mr. Hume  rose to order. In his opinion, they ought either to enter into the subject fully and fairly, or not go into it at all. The right hon. Gentleman had introduced details into the debate which were not noticed in asking the question. He put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether he thought it right to enter into a general discussion of the subject now:—in his opinion, the details ought to be reserved for the period when the question came regularly before the House. He protested against the right hon. Gentleman being permitted to go into particulars, unless the other side were allowed the privilege of reply.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, he did not wish to go into particulars; but the hon. Member for Cornwall stated a fact, and he thought it but fair that he should be allowed to rebut that fact. Lord Brudenell, so far from assenting to the justice of the sentence upon him, petitioned the King praying his Majesty to order that he should be tried by a general court-martial. The King, however, did not acquiesce in his request; thinking, probably, that it would be injurious to the service to do so. But it was intimated to Lord Brudenell, that the case being one of discipline only, he might expect to be reinstated in his original position after a time. The Secretary at War of that day asked the Commander-in-chief if he considered the conduct of Lord Brudenell such that he should be permanently placed on the half-pay list, or temporarily as a punishment merely? the answer was, that he was placed on half-pay for the purpose of being restored to the service on a future occasion. It followed that the sentence of
 853
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had never advocated the system of canvassing the sentences of courts martial in that House, and he had not done so on the present occasion. That being the case, he begged to say, in Parliamentary phrase, that the Gallant Officer ought not to ask him a question of that kind.
 Mr. Curteis  disapproved, as well as the right hon. Gentleman, of the interference of that House with the discipline of the army. He was glad the question had afforded the right hon. Gentleman the opportunity of making a satisfactory reply.
 Lord G. Lennox  said, he had the honour of commanding in the army for twenty-four years, and there was no one transaction in his military life which gave him more satisfaction than he derived from seeing the name of Lord Brudenell restored to the array. He should not feel that he had acted with justice towards Lord Brudenell if he did not make that declaration boldly in the face of military men.
 Sir William Molesworth  gave notice that soon after Easter, he should move a humble Address to his Majesty on the subject of this appointment. In the course of this evening he should move for Copies of the Correspondence referred to by the gallant Officer opposite.
 Sir H. Hardinge  asked what the hon. Gentleman meant by correspondence?
 Sir William Molesworth : The Petition and the Answer.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, he knew of no correspondence but the Petition of Lord Brudenell, and the answer received to it. As to those documents, he had no doubt the hon. Member would be as much gratified as he was on seeing them, if the hon. Member had the feelings of a Gentleman, which no doubt he had.
 Lord Howick  suggested, that the hon. Gentleman should not move this evening for a Copy of the Petition, as he (Lord Howick) should not feel justified in concurring in the motion, or, indeed, in any motion for the production of any Papers on the subject, till he had been afforded an opportunity of communicating with Lord Hill.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, seeing the noble Lord, the Foreign Secretary in his place, he wished to put to him one or two questions of great importance with respect to our national honour, and of vital importance to the commercial interests of this country. In the course of the recent discussion which took place, relative to the late unfortunate events at Cracow, the noble Lord stated, that communications had been made on that subject with the Ministers abroad. The first question which he wished to ask the noble Lord was, whether amongst the parties he had communicated with were included the authorities of Cracow itself; and whether any answer to his communications had been received? The second question he had to ask the noble Lord was, whether he had received any official notice of events which it was said had occurred affecting the victims of Cracow since the occupation of that place? Was the noble Lord aware that the Polish Refugees, having been induced to pass out of the district in which they were, instead of being forwarded to the place of their destination, had been delivered up by the three powers into the hands of Russia, and had been marched, in all probability, to Siberia or to Tobolsk? His next question had reference to our commercial interests. He begged to ask the noble Lord if he had information of an attempt on the part of Russia to close the mouths of the Danube by certain quarantine regulations. He begged also to express a hope that the noble Lord would inform the House whether it was the intention of the Government to interfere to prevent this further
 855
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  said, he should feel it his duty on Friday, the 15th of April, to call the attention of the House to what he advisedly and deliberately designated the aggression of Russia.
 Mr. Robinson  begged to ask the noble Lord whether he could give the House any information as to the state of the negotiations between the Queen of Portugal and his Majesty's Government affecting the commercial relations of the two countries? Another question he desired to ask the noble Lord was, whether his Majesty's Government had consented to annul the treaty which existed with the State of Frankfort, by which that State was excluded from joining, without the consent of this country, the German Confederation? If the consent of this country had been given, he should be obliged by the noble Lord stating on what grounds.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  presented a Petition, agreed to at a very large and respectable meeting held in Manchester, on the subject of the Irish Church. The Dissenters of that town were among the petitioners, as were all interested in the prosperity and welfare of Ireland, and anxious for the removal of the grievances which press upon the Dissenters from the Established Church. The petitioners stated their regret at the measures hitherto introduced and adopted on the subject of the Established Church, and to enforce its acceptance by the Irish people; they believed that any connexion between Church and State was injurious to the interests of religion, and they desired the abolition of the abuses allowed to exist in the Church of Ireland. They complained that the property of the State should be appropriated to the support of the religion of a very small section of the people, and they therefore prayed that, after the due maintenance of the Irish clergy, the surplus should he applied to national purposes. They stated, that the Dissenters of the United Kingdom had waived their claims to a redress of grievances till the present Session, in the hope that they would be dealt with in a more complete manner than hitherto. They also prayed that the grant to the Dissenters in Ireland, called the  Regium Donum, 843 Regium Donum,
 The Solicitor General  admitted the importance of the document in question, but expressed some doubt as to the right of that House to call for it. It was of very great importance in a legal point of view, in suits for tithes, moduses, &c.; but not many years ago, the Court of Chancery had decided, that extracts from it were to be received as evidence, so as to render its production in Court not necessary; and he understood, that there was every facility given on payment of a small fee, for the inspection of it, and if required for taking extracts from it.
 Sir Robert Inglis  opposed the motion; he denied the right of that House to demand the production of the document: in one point of view, they would be committing a great injustice in so doing; for the person in whose custody it now was received certain fees for its inspection. He had a vested interest in those fees, and that House had no just right to deprive him of it.
 The Speaker  said, that, as Chairman of the Record Commission, he could assure the hon. Member for Finsbury, that they would use their influence to procure the production of the document referred to.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, his only object was to get at the document; and, on that assurance, he would withdraw his motion.—Motion withdrawn.
 The Speaker  inquired if the object of the hon. Member was to object to the petition being laid on the Table? [Mr.  Trevor:
 The Lord Advocate  said, in bringing before the House a Bill for making certain alterations in the duties of the Lords Ordinary, &c., he wished to call attention in the first place to the savings that had been made in the Court of Session and Court of Admiralty, and Court of Exchequer in Scotland. In the Court of Session and Admiralty, the savings which had actually accrued amounted already to 17,375 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. l. l., 860 l. l. l. 861 l.
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, that he was induced to offer the few remarks he had made in consequence of the language contained in the petition, and he was disposed to oppose its being laid on the Table; but as the sense of the House appeared to be against him, he would not trouble them with any further observations.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  wished to ask the noble Lord whether there was any truth in the general rumour, that a negotiation was going forward for a loan for the service of the Queen of Spain, and that this country was to guarantee its repayment?
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  had been solicited to protest against the sentiments contained in the petition just read by the hon. Member, which could be considered as like travelling at the rate of twenty miles an hour. The hon. Member was proceeding when
 Viscount Palmerston  had no objection to give the hon. Gentleman the information he requested, but thought he should be almost entitled to ask the hon. Gentleman in return a counter question of just the same nature. In reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, he begged to say, that no loan had been negociated by the Queen of Spain which the Government of this country was to guarantee. He now begged to ask the hon. Gentleman, or any other hon. Gentleman on that side of the House, whether, "as he had seen it reported," a loan had been negociated for Don Carlos; and if so, upon what guarantee?
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that question involved some very important considerations connected with the commerce of this country—considerations, the very importance of which, he could assure his noble Friend, was one reason why the Government had paused for so long a time with regard to any measures which it might be deemed advisable to take. By the instructions sent out to the superintendents when Lord Napier first went out there, it was ordered that every vacancy as it occurred, was to be filled up on the spot, subject to
 858
 Lord Sandon  would avail himself of that opportunity to ask the noble Lord whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to fill up the vacancy at Canton occasioned by the death of Lord Napier?
 General Sharpe  wished to ask the noble Lord a question, with respect to an appointment that he was sure would create great uneasiness in that part of his Majesty's army, who were employed in India. He alluded to the individual who had been engaged in the Company's service; he still retained the rank of Captain in the Company's service, and he was gazetted as Major-General, he (General Sharpe) thought in February last. Such an appointment, he considered, was calculated to outrage the feelings of officers, and he knew nothing more calculated than it to produce a collision. The appointment that he referred to, was that of Lieutenant-Colonel Sir Henry Bethune, in the employment of Persia, and gazetted as a Major-General in Asia. He hoped that was a mistake for Asia Minor or Persia. He merely now called the attention of the noble Lord to the subject, and wished to receive an answer respecting it.
 Sir Andrew Leith Hay  said, that in bringing under the consideration of the House the Ordnance estimates for the
 862 l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l., l.; l. l. 863 l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l., l., 864 l. l., l. s. d. l., l. s. d. l., l. s. l., l. s. d. 865
 Mr. Hawes  knew, that architects had been excluded, and not only architects generally, but particular architects by name. He did not think that any rule for the exclusion of professional men should have been adopted, but if it were adopted, it ought at least to be general, and not particular. He did not see why the four plans should be in the hands of the Woods and Forests; they ought rather to be in the custody of the Committee. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken of an engraved copy of Mr. Barry's plan, and he (Mr. Hawes) wished to know whether it was an engraving of the original plan, or of the plan as it had been cut down for the estimate? The original plan, it should be recollected, had been departed from. He did not say that the public had been treated with disrespect,
 867
 Sir G. Sinclair : I rise, Sir, for the purpose of asking what line of conduct his Majesty's Government intend to pursue in consequence of that gross outrage which has been committed in Dublin, against the statue of King William, against the statue of that monarch of "glorious, pious, and immortal memory," and who has ever been held in the highest veneration by those who are the lovers of religious liberty.
 Mr. Hume  had received a letter from an architect, who had been anxious to see the approved plans. This was the fifth or sixth time the subject had been mentioned, and the expectation held out by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, about three weeks ago, had been disappointed. He did not know why the three less successful plans had been kept back, and it was very natural that the public, which paid for them, should feel a curiosity to inspect them. They had a right to see all, and they would not be fairly dealt with if Mr. Barry's plan were exhibited with any of the leading features altered. The original, as approved by the Commissioners, ought to be placed in the National Gallery.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was accidentally not present when the Army Estimates were moved, but he should not lose the opportunity of adverting to the subject on the bringing up of the Report, because he thought it of essential importance to know what the Government was doing with regard to that department. The right hon. Gentleman on this side of the House proposed a change last year, in which the noble Lord concurred; and he understood that in consequence of what then took place, a Commission was appointed to inquire into the civil establishment of the Ordnance, with the view, he presumed, of carrying into effect the amalgamation of the Ordnance and engineers with the Commander-in-chief's department. By this arrangement he believed that no less than 300,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his disapprobation of the system which was pursued in reference to these institutions, and he was sorry to see the Government not disposed to follow the course which had been commenced by their predecessors in office—viz., that of gradually reducing, and eventually giving them up altogether. It was his opinion, that the expense which was incurred in the support of these schools, was no way proportionate to the good which they effected; he believed that, by sending the children to some part of the country where they might be boarded and placed under proper superintendence, twice the good would be accomplished at half the expense at present incurred. He observed, there was no less a sum than 1,860 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would put a question to the noble Secretary at War, and to his Majesty's Government, which was this—was it really their intention to keep up the yeomanry and volunteer corps? He had, during the last Session, presented several petitions from the county of Fife, against keeping up this description of force in a time of peace; his belief was, that they were only so kept up to imtimidate and insult the labouring classes of the community. On several occasions he had expressed his objections to this corps; and,
 870
 Mr. Hume  stated, that he had received communications asserting that the present consolidation would be found as oppressive as that which Mr. Goulburn had brought in. He had not himself seen the schedule; but he was told that in many cases it would aggravate the pressure of taxation. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would inquire into the subject; for he believed there must be some mistake. Certainly the gentleman from whom he received the letter was one upon whose judgment and experience he was disposed to place every reliance. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give full time for having the details examined into.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the vote. He considered that they should have some information as to the calamitous occurrences which had recently taken place at the Cape. Although some information could be procured, by means of the Committee moved for by the hon. Member for Weymouth, still he did not think that they should be able to obtain the whole truth, until Commissioners were sent out to examine upon the spot into all the facts. It was of importance not only to the colonists themselves, but also to the interests of England, that the causes which led to such calamities should be inquired into.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had already observed, that he only wished that the Bill should be now read a second time that evening. His intention was to postpone the Committee until the 29th of the present month, and this for the purpose of affording all parties, in and out of the House, full time for considering the Bill. If persons were to take up par-
 872 ad valorem
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was, he said, unwilling to discuss a question now, which would be so much better postponed to a future stage. For his own part he begged to say, that he thought the arguments used on the part of his Irish friends on this subject, were quite untenable. The Irish newspapers were to be conveyed post-free. Upon this point he would also call the attention of those who demanded an entire repeal of the stamp-duty upon newspapers, that supposing the repeal were to take place, and they followed up the argument used in favour of the Irish newspapers, having repealed the whole amount of the duty in England, they would be bound to pay a bounty to the Irish newspapers. He would take the opportunity to notice, that his proposition had been subjected to gross misrepresentation. It had been said, that it amounted to the same thing as the proposition for raising the stamp-
 873 d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the Committee had not yet finally decided, and until they had decided, the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests had no right to deal with the plans; by parting with them the Commissioners might be deprived of the means of carrying into effect the directions of the Committees. He had formerly pledged himself that before the House came to its ultimate determination on the plan to be adopted, they should all be exhibited, and to that undertaking he still adhered.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in
 866
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  wished that the right hon. Gentleman would take this opportunity of announcing something calculated to allay the ferment that prevailed in Ireland with respect to the stamp duties on newspapers. The demand in Ireland was, that the stamp duty should be reduced one-half what it was intended to be in England, as it is at this moment.
 Sir Robert Peel  added, that exclusion gave an artificial importance and mystery to the affair; he could see no good reason why all the world should not be allowed to inspect at least three of the plans, reserving Mr. Barry's as necessary to the formation of the estimate; when that was completed it ought to be shown with the others.
 Sir Robert Peel , seeing the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, rose to put a question to him respecting the exhibition of the plans for the new Houses of Parliament. He had received several communications which made him believe that considerable dissatisfaction was felt upon the subject on two grounds—first, that architects were specifically excluded from permission to inspect the successful plans. He had received a letter from a very eminent architect who applied to be admitted: he had gone with a friend, who was allowed to enter, but being himself asked if he were an architect, and the answer being in the affirmative, he was excluded, as he was told, by the express orders of the Woods and Forests Department. Unless some good reason could be assigned, this exclusion, to say the least of it, seemed ungenerous. The other ground of complaint was, that the plans of the successful candidates were not exhibited with the others. He had understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the successful plans should be sent with the others for exhibition in the building intended for the National Gallery. It was easy to see why the plan that had been eminently successful—that of Mr. Barry—could not yet be exhibited, because it might be necessary to retain it for the purpose of forming the estimates of the expense of carrying it into execution; but he could not see why the three others next in merit should not have been sent for exhibition with the others. Unless they were sent at an early period, it seemed likely that the public attention would be exhausted, and he therefore hoped, that some means would be adopted, that the three less successful plans would be exhibited according to their original intention.
 Viscount Howick  was firmly convinced, that the yeomanry and volunteer corps of the country had never been used for party purposes. He believed that they were of great use to the country, inasmuch as they were available corps, and supported at a very small expense. He could state, of his own knowledge, that, in several instances, when called upon to act, they had done so with the greatest advantage to the public. His hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, would recollect that a great reduction had taken place in the Militia staff in the last year, and he thought it a politic measure to keep up these corps under such circumstances. They were volunteers, and, in point of fact, were no real burthen on the community at large, while they were a most useful and available force.
 Viscount Howick : in moving that 25,000 l.
 Viscount Howick  would repeat what he had stated on a former occasion, viz.—that the inquiry was in progress. It was, however, a subject of great difficulty. When the Commission, of which he had the honour of being a Member, was appointed, they found a scale of some alterations which had been made by a former Commission, of which the right hon. Baronet was a member. Considerable evidence had been gone into on the subject; but much more was necessary. During this sitting of Parliament it was not possible to proceed with the inquiry as rapidly as might be desired; but they were making progress as fast as, under the circumstances, was practicable, and he hoped before the end of the Session to be able to lay the Report of the Commission upon the Table of the House. With reference to that part of the observations of the hon. Gentleman which related to his extravagance, he must express his regret that the hon. Gentleman was not present when his hon. and gallant Friend brought the Ordnance estimates under the consideration of the House. Whenever the hon. Gentleman revived the subject, his hon. and gallant Friend would no doubt be prepared to meet him.
 Viscount Howick  requested the hon. and gallant Officer to put the question when his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control, was in the House.
 Lord Morpeth : As yet, Sir, I have received no official details on the subject.
 The Attorney General  observed, that the question which the House had to determine was, whether or not it was expedient that this Bill should be introduced? Now, without entering into the question of the law of primogeniture, on which he had bestowed much attention, and on which he had expressed opinions to which he still adhered, he was prepared to maintain, that the public time might be much better employed, in the present state of the business of the House and the public feeling of the country, than in discussing a speculative question such as that which had been brought forward. As far as the argument of the hon. Member for Bath was concerned, he should only remind him, that to effect the object which he seemed desirous of seeing attained, it would be necessary to go further than he proposed, namely, to destroy the power of making marriage settlements and wills, because whilst that subsisted, there was no means of preventing property from being accumulated, and by a certain portion of the community, and transmitted to their heirs. With respect to the object of this Bill, as stated by the hon. Member for Liverpool, it would, in his opinion, produce no effect. What was proposed by it? To have the real property of a man who died intestate divided amongst his heirs equally. But in ninety-nine cases out of every l00.real property was disposed of either by settlement or will. As to the example of France, with regard to primogeniture, he trusted it was one which would never be followed by this country. As he had already said, this was a very inopportune occasion for discussing the principle of primogeniture, when so many subjects of pressing importance claimed the attention of Parliament. He was lately asked by several hon. Members, when he meant to introduce a measure for doing away with the defects to which the franchise of the country, in its present state, was subject. He hoped, with
 906
 Colonel Thompson  said, the mention of the House of Lords originated with the hon. Member for Truro, though they now sought to turn it to the disadvantage of his side of the House. He thought he could prove that this question was not unimportant in the public opinion of the people of England. He was lately in a large assembly of the intelligent citizens of a populous commercial town, who called on him to discourse to them on a political subject; and when the subject was announced, what was it but this of primogeniture. He did so, and he found a per-suasion in their minds that the effect of the system of primogeniture was to concentrate power in the eldest branches of families, to enable them to support the junior branches at the public expense. It was supposed that great peril and danger might arise
 907
 Mr. Francis Baring  rose to draw the attention of the House to the necessity of making some more effectual provision for the protection of the breed of oysters on our coasts. The Osyter Fishery, he was sorry to say, was not so well guarded as the fisheries for this valuable fish upon the coast of France by its Government. It was well known to the naturalist, as well as the fisherman, that the worst results followed in all cases where the oyster beds were disturbed, or attempted to be dredged, during the breeding season, and that a precise period should be fixed, when the oyster had obtained a certain size, before which it should be illegal to take the young oysters off the bed. On the south-west coast there was a district in which he was assured that the breed of fish had been so much disturbed, by irregularities on the part of the fishermen, that out of 300 boats employed formerly, only ten or fifteen boats were engaged at the present period in this fishery. The object of the Bill he now moved for leave to introduce was two-fold—to ensure an adequate supply, and provide a resource for the industry of a very meritorious class of seamen, who were wont to look to this fishery as their legitimate field of occupation. The hon. Member concluded by moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulation and improvement of the Oyster Fisheries in England and Wales.
 Sir Thomas Freemantle  should not object to the motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex, though he entertained some doubts as to the possibility of obtaining part of the information sought, particularly as regarded the police of the city of London. He admitted, that it was most desirable that the whole police force of the metropolis should be under one head.
 Mr. Charles Ross  expressed his gratification at the manner in which the Police
 917
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  entirely concurred, that the principle of remuneration ought to be extended; and it was most satisfactory to him to find, however persons might have differed in opinion as to the propriety of establishing the present system of police, that all parties now bore testimony to the admirable manner in which the force performed their duties. He believed the conduct of the Commissioners at the head of it had been such as to give entire satisfaction.
 Mr. Hume  said, he apprehended there would be no difficulty in obtaining the returns from the City of London, as alluded to by the hon. Baronet, because all Municipal Corporations were bound to obey the orders of that House. He begged to ask the Members of the Government whether, because he understood some such decision had been come to with respect to the constabulary of Ireland, it was true that officers on half-pay, who were to be employed in that force were not to be allowed to receive their half-pay? However this might be, he trusted that any rule established in this respect would be general, both as regarded England and Ireland.
 Colonel Anson  questioned the propriety of the suggestion of the hon. Member for Middlesex for getting rid altogether of the accumulation of stores. He was happy, however, to find that one channel had been opened to that end in the outlet which Spain presented, and hoped that the hon. Member's support would be obtained to render the remainder more effective by the application of a small vote in furtherance of the adaptation of the percussion principle to the small arms at present in the stores.
 Lord John Russell  rose chiefly in consequence of the amendment of the hon. Member for Clare, and the observations subsequently made by the hon. Member for London, to address a few observations to the House. He thought it was already clearly proved by the law officers of the Crown, that if they fairly considered the Bill which the hon. Member proposed to bring in, it would be found inoperative in ninety-nine out of 100 of the cases it was intended to meet. Now, this fact he looked upon as being in itself quite sufficient to justify his opposition to the proposition. He could not, however, so meet the hon. Member for London. That hon. Member's argument, if he understood it rightly, was to the effect, that although the Bill might be found inoperative, it would be advisable to have a legislative declaration, that the law of the land as it now stood, with respect to the succession of property, was unjust. Now, that was the very conclusion to which he did not wish to come. There were now two propositions before the House. There was in the first place the proposition of the hon. Member for Liverpool to bring in a Bill which it was proved would be inoperative, and there was the further proposition for making a declaration which, without in any way remedying the defect, would,  ipso facto 911
 Sir A. Leith Hay  said, it appeared to him that the view of the hon. Member for Middlesex was founded on calculations which he believed to be very incorrect, and if brought forward in practice would not be at all beneficial to the public service. The observations of the hon. Member respecting the Engineer corps were strikingly inconsistent. On the one hand, he complained they were parsimoniously and badly treated, and on the other of the amount of expenditure lavished on the department. Under all the circumstances of the country, the Ministers had brought forward estimates with the strictest regard
 921
 Mr. Villiers  observed, that settlements generally followed the law. The law declared, that land should descend to the eldest sons, and that personal property should he distributed equally amongst all the children. That this was the manner in which property was generally settled the Solicitor General could not deny. This proved, that the law influenced public opinion in matters of settlement, and therefore he did not consider it wholly inoperative. In case of a division, the motion should have his vote.
 Mr. Grote  said, he could not help thinking that by far the greater portion of the observations made by the hon. Member for Truro were totally unconnected with the question at issue. If the discussion had been diverted from the intention of its originator into a question as to the bearings and inferences, whether favourable or unfavourable, of the contemplated measure upon the aristocracy of the country, it was the hon. Member to whom he alluded, and not the hon. Member for Bath, who first set that example. From the supposition that the hon. Member for
 909 910
 Mr. Aglionby : I rise to rescue the hon. Member for Liverpool, from the unfair speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Every sentence of that speech is, not an answer to the motion of my honorable Friend, but to the hon. Member for Bath. Now, Sir, I for one beg to say, that I support the motion on far different grounds from those which appear to influence that hon. and learned Member, and I protest on my own part, and on the part of my hon. Friend, the Member for Liverpool, against being bound by any thing that has fallen from the hon. and learned Member. Reference has been made to the thin attendance of Members on the present occasion as an argument against bringing forward the motion. Why, Sir, whose fault is it that we have a thin House? And if hon. Gentlemen will not attend and do their duty, are other hon. Members to be prevented from voting according to their conscientious convictions? And as to the time of the Session also, to which the hon. Member for Truro alluded, what is there in that? I am quite sure we shall have time amply sufficient to discuss this measure. The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, referred to the Real Property Commission, and said, that they had not recommended the alteration proposed by the hon. Member for Liverpool. That
 905
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he could fully corroborate the statement of his hon. Friend as to the affidavits being only received by the Committee as  primâ facie
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was most unwarrantable to oppose the introduction of a measure solely on the ground of the good or evil effects which an hon. Member might anticipate from its being carried into a law. On the same principle that this measure was opposed—namely, the opinion of the hon. Member for Bath that it would have the effect of dividing the wealth and diminishing the power of the aristocracy—the change in the law when fines and recoveries were first allowed, might have been resisted. No alteration was better calculated than that to spread the wealth of the aristocracy; and surely no measure could be devised which was more likely to have the effect of lessening their power than the Reform Bill. These changes were, however, effected, notwithstanding the prophecies which some expressed of their injurious consequences. So in like manner should Parliament sanction the present motion if it were considered likely to prove beneficial.
 Mr. Poulter  rose, pursuant to the notice which he had given, to move for leave to bring in a Bill regarding the Municipal Elections of the Borough of Poole. The Bill did not proceed from anything like a mere afterthought, because, long before any petitions on the subject had been presented to that House, efforts had been made for the purpose of securing a free, fair, and open election in this borough. It appeared, by the evidence taken by the Committee, that mutilated and fictitious papers had been made use of by the defendant's party, and that persons not qualified to vote had been permitted to vote, and a false and fictitious majority had thus been created. The consequence of these proceedings was, that in the north-west ward nine of the common-councilmen were elected by the defendant's party. In the south-west ward two out of nine were elected. A majority in the common-council was thus secured, and this majority created the entire corporation. They elected the mayor—they turned out of office persons of the greatest integrity— and they conferred no less than twelve appointments by virtue of the power that they had thus assumed. There never was a case in which the proceedings had been more unfairly or more irregularly conducted. At the election the papers had been presented by one party in an unfolded state, by the other party in a folded state, and it was supposed that the fictitious and mutilated papers which had afterwards been discovered, were those which had been presented in the folded state. The hon. Gentleman proceeded to state several other instances of what he considered gross fraud, and that the case
 894 895
 Mr. Poulter  begged to say a word, in explanation, after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in respect to the evidence which was referred to in the Report. When the Committee met they found the greatest inconvenience and expense would arise from compelling persons to come up from Poole, and stay in London perhaps several days for the sole purpose of proving the manner in which they had given their votes; a point on which no question was raised by any person during the whole inquiry. It was for that reason, the Committee decided to receive the affidavits of those persons on that point not as legal evidence (for that he admitted they could not be considered) but as  primâ facie
 Mr. Roebuck : Sir, the hon. and learned
 902 903 Oh Trevor
 Mr. Hume  rose to second the Motion which had just been so ably advocated by his hon. Friend; and he should be very happy to hear those who differed from his hon. Friend's arguments take the trouble to answer them if they could. He (Mr. Hume) had always considered the present state of the law unfair; putting, as it did, the power into a father's
 901
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for Returns of the Dues paid to the Russian Company of Merchants trading to Petersburg and elsewhere, on Russian produce, imported into this country, with Copies of the Charter of the Russian Company, the Duties payable on admission into the Company by Merchants enrolled, and the Rules existing for the conduct of the affairs of the Russian Company. The duties levied on Russian produce, imported were, under the direction of the Russian Incorporated Company, a species of antiquated system of monopoly, which it was high time the Government should abrogate. There was one striking inconsistency in the present system, which was, that the Charter only extended to the ports of old Russia; so that imports from her new acquisition of territory were— though these ports were fully one-half of all the Russian Ports—exempt from control of the Russian Company. And another anomaly was, that these dues were not allowed by the Act of Incorporation to be levied on Russian imports into ports of Ireland and Scotland. Many oaths were required by the regulations of the Company, for the purpose of identifying the property as Russian property, which ought now at once to be abolished. He hoped to have the assent of the present enlightened Government to a future measure, which should abolish these dues, and bring back this trade to the sound principle which was now so properly acted upon with respect to other branches of our commerce. He concluded by moving for the Returns already mentioned, which were granted.
 Mr. Hume  took the opportunity of protesting against the whole system of the Ordnance Establishment. The Ordnance estimates amount to the sum of l,463,449 l. l. l. 918 
 
 1. For the pay and expenses of the whole of the Artillery and Engineer Forces, except the cost of their clothing, which is included in the vote for the general provision of stores, viz.:— 
 Pay of artillery, engineers, &c. (including agency) £369,632 
 Extra pay and allowances to commanding officers, adjutants, &c. 1,773 
 Pay of medical establishments 10,129 
 Allowance to civil surgeons 728 
 Medicines, wines, &c, for artillery hospitals 2,109 
 Recruiting expenses 2,000 
 Purchase of horses 3,340 
 Sundry expenses, under the head of allowance for beer, hire of carriages, travelling and passage-money, allowance to messes of regiments, for wine, &c; 22,991 
 419,701 
 2. For repairs of fortifications, including all expenses of management, viz.:— 
 Ordnance works and repairs £66,641 
 Extra pay to engineers for superintending them 12,337 
 Pay of clerks of works, &c. 16,903 
 95,881 
 3. Barrack department, including all expenses of management, viz.:— 
 Buildings and repairs of barrack (infantry, cavalry, and artillery) £121,526 
 Extra pay to engineers superintending them 12,337 
 Pay of clerks of works, &c. 16,903 
 Barrack masters' expenditure, supposed to be for fuel for troops generally 51,441 
 Pay to barrack masters and barrack Serjeants 40,445 
 Barrack law expenses, travelling expenses, advertisements, &c. 2,380 
 Rents in Great Britain, Ireland, and abroad 7,101 
 Purchase of lands, &c. 5,000 
 259,546 
 4. Survey of counties 53,000 
 5. Miscellaneous expenses, viz.:— 
 Bronzing arms 1,768 
 Advertisements, travelling expenses, passage money, &c. 9,512 919 
 
 Alterations of store-houses at Tower £3,005 
 General law expenses 2,250 
 Postages 2,400 
 Allowance to two draftsmen for plans, &c. 500 
 19,435 
 6. For the computed cost of all the stores that will be required for twelve months—viz.: 
 Provision for the purchase of stores Ordnance stores £60,000 110,780 
 Bedding 16,00 
 Gt. coats 15,00 
 Artillery clothing 19,780 
 Packing and freight of stores 4,000 
 114,780 
 7. For boards' salaries for general superintendence 9,000 
 8. Clerks' salaries for checking, deliveries of stores, and keeping and examining accounts-viz.:- 
 Clerks' salaries-Pall-mall, Tower, and Dublin 58,096 
 Clerks' allowance for rent, &c, and for coals and candles 1,567 
 Clerk in Store Department at Woolwich 8,181 
 Clerks' allowance for making inventories 763 
 Clerks' salaries at out stations England £13,890 41,668 
 Ireland 2,152 
 Abroad 25,626 110,295 
 9. For superannuations, viz.:— 
 Clerks' superannuations 62,939 
 Military ditto 96,678 
 10. For pay of labourers and artificers, viz.- 
 At the Tower and Woolwich 28,237 
 Home stations in England 23,100 
 In Ireland and abroad 24,694 
 76,031 
 Crew of vessels employed in removing powder 1,746 
 80,777 
 Total £1,322,032 
 Add Commissariat expenditure 141,417 
 Total £1,463,449 920 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Pease  thought, that they ought not to refuse to apply a first principle in a particular instance, because the principle which more generally prevailed was an unjust one. The present case merely applied to intestate persons, and he thought the State ought to interfere in a manner strictly in accordance with the principles of justice. From the law, as it at present existed, many inconveniences resulted. It was the custom with persons who, in trade, accumulated money, to invest it in landed property, and to apportion their property equally among their children; they had to mate their wills once a-year, as they increased their investments. They sometimes, on an average, had to make their wills five times every six years—a necessity created by the existing law, which was exceedingly inconvenient.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was of opinion, that the present was not a fit time to entertain a question of such magnitude, as that involved in the motion of the hon. Member for Liverpool. Dealing with the question, even on the basis of the arguments of the hon. Member for Liverpool), he did not concur in the opinion, that the present law of descent impeded the improvement of the country. He was satisfied, that if a comparison were instituted between the relative condition of this country to that of France and America, that test was one which would not prove the superiority of those nations in this respect over this empire. But when he perceived the view which the hon. Member for Bath took of this motion, he felt the more strongly impressed with the necessity of opposing it. Let that hon. Member, instead of introducing the momentous question of the abolition of hereditary distinctions and the power of the House of Lords, as incidental to
 904
 Mr. Ewart  trusted the House would allow him to state his reasons for the motion he intended to make. He rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill providing that (in cases of intestacy and in the absence of any settlement to the contrary) landed property should, like personal property, be equally divided among the children or other next of kin of the deceased. His object was twofold; first, simply to assert the principle that, when the deceased had been silent as to the distribution of his landed property, the law should not unjustly, in his opinion, and even cruelly, presume in favour of unequal distribution. His next object was to make the executor the channel for the conveyance of real, as he is now of personal property. In France, in Prussia, in Italy, even in Austria and in other European countries, the presumption in favour of equal partition almost universally prevailed. He need not remind the House that the United States of America had also shaken off this unjust feudal principle. He was aware that some of the opponents of his measure would say, "that the change proposed would produce little or no effect." If so, why maintain any longer a principle the injustice of which was not denied; especially when he could show that, merely in a legal point of view, the measure he suggested would be attended with considerable advantage? Another class of opponents of the measure would resist it on general principles. One of their favourite arguments was this: that the existing law, by bestowing all the property on the eldest son, threw the rest of the family into the mass of the people; that thus the younger branches of the aristocracy became a portion of the people, and were again implanted in the soil from which they originally sprung. This he conceived was a fallacy, unsupported by theory and contradicted by experience. He would put it to this test. Let the public only look to those professions which require industry and talent for the certainty of advancement; let them look to the eminent profession of medicine, to the courts of law, to the judicial benches; let them turn towards the mercantile profession; in all these laborious occupations they would find the appearance of even a single member of an aristocratical family the exception, not the rule. But in professions where patronage was the principal means of advancement,
 899 Droit d'Ainisse; 900 "— —Gaudebant fraterno funere fratres, Destitit extinctos natus lugere parentes."
 Mr. Ewart , being called upon by the Speaker, said, he understood that the hon. Member for Truro intended to oppose the Bill which he was about to ask leave to bring in; if so, he hoped the hon. Member would avow his intention openly at once, and not reserve himself to overturn it in some subsequent stage by a side-wind.
 Mr. Ewart  said, in reply, that he did not consider he had been generously dealt with by the hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House. Although he felt the honour of being supported by the talents of his hon. Friend, the Member for Bath, he did not think it fair, that he should be bound by all he said. He should not, and never had intended to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  consented to withdraw his amendment, but in case the House went to a division, he should be compelled to vote in favour of the Bill.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  thought the best course would be to meet the Motion with an amendment of the previous question, which he accordingly proposed.
 Mr. Tooke  certainly was prepared to object to the principle of the Bill which the hon. and learned Member wished to bring in. He should leave the hon. and learned Member, however, to adopt whatever course he thought fit on the subject, merely suggesting to him that, in the present thin state of the House, it was hardly convenient to enter upon the discussion of so important a principle as that which his Bill embraced.
 Mr. Tooke  said, he had no personal interest against the principle of the present motion, for he was himself a younger brother; but he would oppose the principle, however, most strenuously, because he thought it was one which, in a House like the present, it was highly inconvenient to discuss at all. He did not think, that a question of this kind ought to be brought forward without some inquiry on the part of Parliament; but the hon. Member had suddenly brought it without preparation or notice. Such a proposition would not meet the support of that House, nor the support of the public at large. He was sure that the law officers of the Crown, the Attorney and Solicitor General, would net come forward as the advocates of such a measure. It might have a few supporters, many of whom perhaps entertained ulterior views, but he did not think that it would find much support amongst the sound and well-thinking part of the English people. This was a question involving one of the fundamental bulwarks of the constitution and stability of property, extending to the total destruction of that fair and reasonable influence which the property and aristocracy of the country was allowed to possess. He called upon the House, therefore, to interpose against the very initiatory step of such a measure as the present, and not allow it to be brought even to a second reading.
 Captain Pechell  perfectly concurred in the propriety of such an enactment. From what he had so often witnessed of the Oyster Fishery on the Coast of Sussex and Hampshire, he was convinced some measure of the kind was necessary. He felt convinced that by it the interests of our military marine, and the maritime strength of the country would be promoted.
 Mr. Jervis  seconded the amendment.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was happy, after the speech of the hon. Member for Bath, to hear the speeches of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Attorney-General. It was not the speech of the hon. Member for Bath, but the cheers with which it was received, that made it right that it should be replied to by a Member of the Government, and the law advisers of the Crown. The hon. Member for Bath had left no doubt either of his wish, or of his object, should his life be prolonged. One object was the practical annihilation of one branch of the Legislature. He saw the hon. Member for Bath nodded assent. Then the present question was not whether they would agree with the hon. Member for Liverpool, but whether they would follow the hon. Member for Bath? The commentator was of equal authority with the author. The real question was, whether the House of Lords was to be overthrown and destroyed? The hon. Member for Bath must go further than the proposed Bill, and he meant to go further, because if he did not, how could he prevent the accumulation of property in the hands of eldest sons? When he entered the House, he thought it scarcely possible that such a question should be discussed in such a House, He trusted the House would reject the motion.
 The Solicitor General  quite agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last, that the House should not be deterred from entertaining the consideration of a measure of salutary reform, solely on the ground that some hon. Members presaged that evils would result from its passing. But he was unprepared to sanction a measure which would be inefficient and mischievous, by giving it the name of a reform.
 908 Hear, hear
 The Solicitor General  said, he should be governed in the vote which he intended to give, for the motion of his hon. Friend, by one principle shortly stated, easily understood, and consistent, too, with all the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite. A petition had been presented to that House by the hon. Member for Huddersfield (Mr. Blackburne), stating various matters of complaint relative to the late municipal elections for the borough of Poole. That petition, after great discussion, was referred to a Committee, composed of eleven Gentlemen, five of whom usually voted on the other side of the House; as fair a Committee as could be formed with an odd number: and that Committee was directed
 897
 Mr. Williams Wynn  hoped the hon. Member would not discuss in so thin a House a subject which involved an alteration in all the principles of our law concerning property.
 Mr. William Wynn  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had not removed the constitutional objections which he(Mr. Wynn) had expressed on a former occasion, to the principle of the measure which was proposed to be introduced. As the hon. Member had alluded to him particularly, he would refer to the two most striking arguments which had been urged by the hon. Gentleman, and which appeared to him to have been the only arguments that had been urged to vindicate this proceeding. The hon. Member had stated, that the House took cognizance of many proceedings which were cognizant in a court of law, and stated the case of bribery at an election for the return of a Member to serve in Parliament. There was, however, a considerable difference between bribery at a municipal election, or any other misconduct on such an occasion, and similar misconduct affecting a Parliamentary election. In the latter case, the privileges of the House were distinctly interfered with, and it was in that view that the House took cognizance of it. He contended, that such a course as that proposed by the hon. Member would be most dangerous. It would be objectionable, in the first place, as perhaps affecting any proceeding that might take place in a court of common-law. Independent of this, there was the other objection, that if once Parliament interfered in a case of this kind, and passed a Bill to remedy such a case as the hon. Member had alleged, supposing such a case to be established, they could not, in equity, refuse a Bill to apply to every other case that might be brought under their notice. He entertained great objections to the description of evidence which had been received in the Committee. In the Report to which the Committee had agreed, there were continual references to affidavits in the appendix, in support of statements contained in it. Now, on referring to the appendix, he could not discover one single affidavit; and even if they had been there, was that evidence which would be received in any court of justice in this kingdom? He ventured to say it would not; and then he asked, whether that House would proceed to legislate upon
 896
 Mr. Williams Wynn  concurred with the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), that this was a motion which ought not to be got rid of by the previous question. He objected to it, not only on the ground that it would be nugatory, but that the principle would be mischievous. The law and practice, which gives the preference to Primogeniture in the disposition of property, were so interwoven with our habits and customs, that they ought not to be changed on light grounds; and he had yet heard no ground sufficiently strong to induce him to consent to the proposition. If Parliament were to declare this law unjust, it would be impossible to prevent the consequences, and they would be subversive of the constitution of the House of Lords. The succession of property must go in the peerage to the eldest
 912 913 Roebuck: No! No!
 Mr. Arthur Trevor : the hon. and learned Member for Bath was pleased to wish me lengthened days, for which I am extremely obliged to him; but I must say, that long as my life may be, I hope I shall, never sit on the same benches with the hon. Gentleman. I shall certainly most strongly oppose the present motion, for, though I am scarcely surprised at any thing which emanates from the opposite side, yet I own I was not prepared for so monstrous and extravagant a proposition as this; and one which would involve the whole lauded property of the country in chaos and confusion.
 Mr. Hodges  gave notice, that, in the event of the Bill not passing in the present
 925
 Major Curteis  said, that he knew it to be a fact, that in many parishes in his neighbourhood, clergymen had given notice to their parishioners to set out tithes in kind.
 The Attorney General , seeing his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in his place, would take that opportunity of drawing his attention to a petition which he held in his hand, from a. society of solicitors in Edinburgh, complaining of being obliged to pay an annual tax of 10 l. 922 l. s.
 Sir George Clerk  was glad to find that the case of the attorneys was brought under attention by hon. Members on the other side of the House, but particularly by the right hon. the Attorney General; and he hoped they would be successful in inducing his Majesty's Ministers to alter and remit the tax. He (Sir George Clerk) could not conceive why there should be any distinction between the attorneys in London and in the country. In London the solicitors pay 10 l. l,
 Major Fancourt  rose to move an amendment. He was anxious to be favoured with the indulgence of the House, while submitting to its consideration the grounds on which he felt it his duty to bring forward a motion for the entire abolition of flogging in the army. It was his wish to have submitted such a motion last Session, but the appointment of the Commissioners, who had recently laid their report on the Table of the House, rendered it, as he thought, inexpedient to press the question to a division. It appeared to him respectful to his Majesty who had appointed, as also to the members who composed, that Commission, to wait the result of their labours. To this course he was further advised by some of the most sincere advocates of the abolition of flogging, and though he had been subjected to misrepresentations out of doors for the course he had thus pursued, he felt assured that it was not only a proper course, but the one best calculated for the attainment of his object. Had he pressed the question to a division last year, should he not have been told that the Commission, having been appointed, should be allowed to effect its object—that they could only legislate on the question after full inquiry? He was satisfied this language would have been held, and thus it was very probable that he should have been deprived of the support of many hon. Gentlemen who, with the Report in their hands, were now in a situation to judge of the question in all its bearings; and he hoped that they should thus come to a definitive settlement of the long-agitated question. This was the only object he ever had in view when soliciting the attention of Parliament to this important matter. The inexpediency of periodically agitating the public mind on a question of this kind must have been felt by all; and he appealed to those Gentlemen, who honoured him with their attention on a former occasion, as to whether he did not then state his chief object to be the putting an end to such agitation by a definitive expression of the views of Parliament? He has stated, and he must repeat, that this
 932 933 934 935 936
 Captain Boldero  rose to second the motion, and was understood to say, that although he had had the honour of being a commissioned officer for twenty-two years, he would not have taken so prominent a part in the discussion upon military flogging were it not that the evidence contained in the report of the Commissioners clearly proved the possibility of abolishing that mode of punishment in the army without injury or disadvantage to the service. As a soldier, then, he felt it his duty to second the motion which had been proposed by the hon. and gallant Member, and he would say that everything that ingenuity coupled with humanity could devise should
 937 "The antiquity of any practice, however, cannot be set up as a defence of it, if there are strong and cogent reasons for its being discontinued; and in nothing is this more true than in the question of the efficiency of any punishment, which must in a great measure depend upon the state of society, and the feelings of the people among whom it is to be used. Upon this principle, much of the severity of the civil criminal code of this country has been relaxed of late years; and upon it, also, have been the restrictions now in force in the army, as to the frequency and extent of corporal punishment." "In the artillery, after a man has been punished more than once, and is generally of a very bad character, you are in the habit of getting rid of him by what you call drumming out?—Yes, there have been instances; and I think that if it was extended it would be very good, particularly as to cases of habitual drunkenness, when all other modes of punishment have been found of no avail. It becomes a case of notoriety among the men, and every body hears and talks about it. "It enables you to get rid of men who are a hinderance to the discipline of the regiment?—Yes; they are often very reckless people, and pride themselves in getting hold of young
 938 "Their presence is a great annoyance?—Yes; notwithstanding the expense of getting another man, the benefit to the service is of much greater consequence than the expense incurred. "Have you found by experience that it has induced other men to misconduct themselves, that they may get their discharge?—That may happen in some particular cases, but I think that it is very rare. He must be a very reckless wretch who would do so, and would be no loss to the service. The men generally know that they are well off, and would never resort to this mode of obtaining their discharge." "Have you been enabled to carry on the discipline with the dépôt without recourse to corporal punishment?—Yes, I have great facilities for so doing. There is a gaol within two hundred yards of the barracks, and I consider that the immediate marching off an offender to the gaol, in the presence of his comrades, has a much greater effect than if such an interval were to elapse between the sentence and the punishment as commonly occurs." "When a French army is in the field, and a soldier commits the offence of insubordination, or some of the minor offences which occur, is he sent to the rear and not suffered to serve, or sent to prison?—I cannot with any accuracy answer to the details of the practice in the French army, but from everything which I saw of them, they managed their discipline with great effect. "Are there not fortresses in every part of France to which soldiers who have committed offences may be sent and employed on public works?—A great number of them. "So that the punishment of confinement can be carried into effect at a very short notice, and with great facility?—Yes, it must be in the cognizance of every one, on all parts of their extensive frontier. "A soldier thus employed does not lose his military character during confinement as he would in England, where he is sent to a civil gaol?—That would depend upon the manner of the confinement. If an English soldier is sent to a civil gaol, there is this hardship, that there are many military offences of a very serious character, which in civil life are no offences at all—I mean no immoral offence. If you send a man convicted of a military offence to gaol, and associate him with felons, you do him a very great injustice. "Does not a prisoner sent to a fortress in France still maintain his military character?—
 939 "But he still works under military control, and his military character is less impaired?—Yes, it is a military prison. "Is not there a punishment in the French army called 'Degradation Militaire?"—Yes. "What is the ceremony—what effect does it appear to have upon the soldier?—The ceremony is this: that the regiment in which the man is is drawn out; the man is stripped of his uniform, and has the prison dross put upon him, and he is paraded in front of his regiment in a most humiliating manner; and he is then sent to the prison or the galleys, according to his sentence. It certainly does make a very great impression upon the mind of every soldier who witnesses it." "Having resided, in 1817, for nearly three years in garrison with the Prussian army of occupation in France, my attention was naturally drawn to a military system so different from our own; I was struck with one part of their system, that of having two classes of soldiers, it) the first of which no soldier is liable to corporal punishment, unless previously degraded into the second class, when he is liable to the cane and every species of punishment. "The soldier can only be degraded into the second class by the sentence of a court martial, approved by the general officer, and confirmed by the King. The class of crimes for which degradation can be awarded are strictly laid down, such as desertion, mutiny, striking a non-commissioned officer, gross frauds, thefts equal to felony, burglaries, &c. "The national cockade is taken from him, and he wears a grey cockade as the badge of degradation. In order that the degraded man may be excited to amendment, after one or two years according to the term in the sentence, a Court of Inquiry investigate his conduct, and if the result be favourable, he is recommended to be restored to the first class; the King, or the War Minister, admonishes the culprit in public orders, and he is restored to the first class. "The practical effect of this system was certainly very extraordinary: during two years, in a garrison of 1,500 men, there were never more than three degraded men, one of whom shot himself the morning the King reviewed the regiment. "In the whole of the Prussian army of occupation, of 16,000, men, the numbers degraded did not exceed twenty men at one time. "The circumstances under which this remarkable system was practically carried into effect
 940 "Is there any feeling upon the part of the other soldiers of a regiment of the hardships upon them in consequence of the confinement of an offender in their regiment in the civil prisons for a length of time?—I cannot say that I ever heard that brought forward as a source of grievance." "Have you ever known complaints made by the men of the additional duty imposed upon them in consequence of the solitary confinement of any of their comrades?—No, I never have. "Who takes charge of the horses of the men when they are under confinement?—They are taken in charge by the rollster. "Has that additional duty imposed upon them ever led to any complaints?—No, I never heard of any. A man who is confined never pays anything for his duty being done. "Have you found in towns where you have been quartered, that there is a strong feeling on the part of the public against the corporal punishment of soldiers?—There is a very strong feeling against it. In Gloucester we were all in billets, and I was obliged to take the men out four miles. The Mayor interceded, and I forgave the man, and be has turned out a remarkably good soldier ever since, which previously he was not. "Have you met with other instances of the existence of that feeling you have referred to?—Only at Gloucester; that is the only place where I had an opportunity of learning it." 941 "In my opinion solitary confinement, or flogging, comes to pretty much the same thing. "Do you think the disgrace attendant upon the punishment has no effect?—None whatever; I am quite certain of that. As to the fine feeling of the soldier who is punished, it does not exist. "Then what is the effect on the man himself? is he degraded in the eyes of his comrades?—Not in the least; it would depend, perhaps, upon the nature of the crime he had committed. It is vain to suppose he is degraded by punishment for crimes such as soldiers generally commit. I do not think he is degraded in the least. "Do you not think that well-behaved soldiers, who never have been tried, are held in higher estimation than those who have been tried?—Yes, decidedly; but I do not think that an inference can be drawn from that, that a soldier is disgraced among his comrades by being punished. I have known soldiers who have been punished held in very high estimation among their comrades. "That is not one of your reasons for wishing to get rid of the punishment?—No; I do not believe in that at all. My principal reason for wishing to get rid of the punishment is, that as long as it remains upon the Statutes, and forms a part of the military code, it must be inflicted; and that we should do better without it. "If it does not degrade the individual, it must act as a considerable example?—I do not think it does. We can only reason from analogy. The best argument is, that you have been flogging in the army ever since the army has existed; and the more you flogged the more you have to flog. "It has been restricted?—Yes; and the more it was restricted, the less necessity there was for inflicting it. "Would not that rather prove, that the constant infliction of corporal punishment did exercise a brutalizing effect upon the men?—That has been always my opinion, It renders
 942 943
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  could but compliment the hon. and gallant Member for Barnstaple on the manner in which he had introduced the subject on that as well as on a former occasion. He would venture to say, that a speech more moderate, more discreet, and more to the purpose which he sought to attain, than that delivered by the hon. and gallant Member could not have been made; above all, he was entitled to praise for having by his own example shown how necessary it was to abstain from all irritating topics—an example which he (Mr.
 944 945 946 Hume 947 Hume: Hume: 948 949 950 "You think it would be well to make an experiment, but you do not speak with entire confidence as to the result?—Just so; and I do not certainly speak with confidence of it, without reference to the adoption of a system of honours, rewards, and promotions." "Is it your notion in respect to the alteration of the discipline of the English army, that corporal punishment should be entirely abolished, or that the power should remain, of inflicting it in certain cases?—That it should be entirely abolished, except in the field, which I have always said should be considered, after the trial was made in cantonments and in peace." "You are understood to say, that, upon service, you would still not do away with the use of the lash?—In emergencies, where men openly plunder, or violate the rules laid down, and where order must be maintained, I do not see that there are any other immediate means of checking them." 951 "A great, and perhaps the principal, fault of corporal punishment is, that it fails before the enemy." Thompson: "I recollect, in the 14th Dragoons, having occasion to make a complaint against soldiers who had committed what I consider a military crime. I was ordered, in the Peninsular war, with, I think about eight dragoons and sixteen Spanish infantry, I believe it was in the neighbourhood of St. Severs, to ascertain whether a division of French cavalry was at a certain point six or seven miles off. I contrived to arrive there near night-fall, and ascertained that they had been gone about four hours. As I returned, the Spaniards got very frightened, and begged the dragoons would not leave them. I ordered different individuals of the dragoons to move in advance of the detachment, my fear being that we might fall in with a body of the enemy; and if we had timely notice of it we might retire by some cross-road, or, in case of extremity, disperse. As fast as I sent a dragoon out of sight, he trotted off and made the best of his way to camp. Not one man staid with me but the corporal. The Spaniards, the corporal, and I, arrived safely in the English out-posts. I immediately complained to the colonel, who did not punish the men, and all he did was to apply a strong expression to them, but the men were never punished. That struck me as a proof of the inapplicability of corporal punishment before the enemy; for I feel certain, that if those men had committed anything like a similar irregularity in a barrack-yard in England, they would have been very severely punished." "I can give two instances bearing upon the fact. I will first give one which occurred in the 95th, or rifle regiment, where corporal punishment was not carried to its usual extent
 952 "Did he receive his corporal punishment?— "Did that put an end to that sort of feeling?—I heard no more of it. But the soldiers must have seen that there was a great difference in the application of the scale of punishment then from what it would have been if they had been in quarters. "Did you happen to sit on that court-martial?—I apprehend not. I was, in fact, the accuser, the prosecutor. "Do you think that punishment, which you think was smaller than the occasion justified, was awarded from the feeling of its not being advisable to punish the soldiers actually on service, or from some opinion, that the man deserved a punishment of that amount only?—I cannot tell what was the feeling of the officers of the Court-martial. My feeling was, that the act of the soldier was an act of gross mutiny or tendency to mutiny. I believe I may say it is almost the only time in which I have brought forward a soldier for corporal punishment, but in this instance I did bring him forward resolutely, being the officer on. the watch, and having heard it while on duty. My impression was, that the smallness of the punishment was in consequence of the sense the officers had of the inapplicability of corporal punishment at a time like that. "You are not aware of having heard that repeated?—I am not. I certainly heard no more of that kind." 953 "When you enlisted, were you sensible you made yourself liable to this punishment if you misconducted yourself?—Most unquestionably I was. "Was any impression made on your mind by that circumstance when you enlisted?—No; I knew I should conduct myself properly; I never felt the necessity of considering it, as far as my own feelings were in question. I was never, under any circumstances, for one moment a prisoner in a guard-house, or elsewhere." "It appeared to have had a very desirable effect; if the power of inflicting this corporal punishment was not in force, it is my firm opinion, that it would be attended with the most serious and fatal consequences, and particularly so in the field before the enemy. "You think it would have had the effect of destroying the energy of that regiment upon that occasion?—Yes, I do, considering what was the description of some of the characters we had to do with then; and if he was not instantly punished in the summary way he was, it would have induced him and others to set all their officers and all authority at defiance. In this month I also witnessed another drum-head punishment in the division, on the line of inarch, on three of the 95th Rifles, by order of Major-General Robert Crawford. While actually marching these men fell out for water, which was a violation of his orders. He had two or three dozen lashes inflicted. This had the desired effect also. No soldier of that division, for more than two years I was
 954 "You have been questioned with respect to the effect of the alteration of the punishment in the army, from corporal punishment, to solitary confinement in garrisons at home; do you conceive that an alteration of that kind could be effected when the army is in the field, and that the discipline of the army could be kept up?—It must be utterly impracticable. I think my brother officers, who are members of this Commission, will all agree with me in that statement. I will put a case as an example. It chanced that I was ordered to conduct from Toulouse, after the battle of Toulouse, to Boulogne and to Calais, the whole of the cavalry, some artillery, and the  materiel 955 "In point of fact you could not?—That is my opinion. "Supposing solitary confinement had been the only punishment allowed, how would you have proceeded, upon your line of march through France, to put that into execution?—I should have found it to be utterly impracticable." "When you commanded a regiment, did it appear to you that the infliction of corporal punishment upon the soldier always carried with it considerable degradation in the eyes of his brother soldiers r—I will say of myself, as I should say of almost every one of my brother officers, that the task of inflicting corporal punishment was always so painful to us, and our feelings towards our soldiers were so different from what persons seem to suppose—indeed so much more like the feelings of a father towards his children (at least it was always my own)—that the infliction of corporal punishment was the most painful duty we ever performed. I never did it when I could possibly avoid it. When I did it, I did it for the sake of example. I did it with that degree of severity which was calculated to make an impression. The degradation depended upon the nature of the crime." 956 "Recourse is now had to solitary confinement and imprisonment, with or without hard labour, in lieu of corporal punishment, in many cases?—Yes, in many cases. "Do you find that the discipline of your regiment has been deteriorated by the substitution of those punishments for corporal punishment? Certainly. More offences have been committed since the restriction has been made. "Do you find that the late regulations, restricting the power of the commanding officers more than they were before, have had a good or a bad effect on the discipline?—A bad effect, decidedly. "You think the example is more striking of corporal punishment than of imprisonment, and more effectual in deterring others from crime? Yes, decidedly so. "The effect is greater in consequence of the punishment being inflicted immediately, and the whole gone through in the presence of all the men?—Yes, exactly. "Where, for reasons, punishment cannot follow the offence immediately, but must wait for trial by court-martial, do you think imprisonment with hard labour, especially if it was in a place in the sight of the men, would be sufficiently effectual for the object of maintaining discipline?—No, I really do not think it would; for we have instances of men who have been two and three months in imprisonment, and when they come out they will commit the same offence in three or four days again. "Do you not find that men who have received corporal punishment have done the same?—No, we have but few instances; and I find that the rarity of it increases the effect. I have had several instances of men who have received corporal punishment, come to me afterwards and say, "Sir, if you will forget what is past, you shall find me in future a good soldier;" and in almost every instance the man's conduct has improved; and I am confident we have many instances of young soldiers, whose conduct has been so violent that we have been obliged to resort to corporal punishment, and that its effect has invariably been good, and often has saved men from committing serious offences, for which they would be transported. "Do you think that young man you refer to has lost himself in the opinion of his comrades?—Not the least; it is the crime that injures them in the eyes of each other, not the description of punishment." 957 "The gallant officer's reason for them was, that the punishment would then be instantaneous; so that he was not an authority for the views of the hon. and gallant Member for Barnstaple." "You are understood to say, that upon service you still would not do away with the use of the lash?—In emergencies, where men openly plunder or violate the rules laid down, and where order must be maintained, I do not see that there are any other immediate means of checking them. I do not pretend, therefore, to say, that I would do away with the power in such cases, but, like the offence of stealing, the punishment, though disgraceful, would, I think, meet the approbation of the army, if thus justly administered. It must be well known to military men, that the success of any enterprise in the field depends upon the following it up; and if men will disobey orders, and have recourse to plunder, success may be by that means turned to defeat, and there must be, I apprehend, the means of repressing it on the instant." "Under particular circumstances of emergency, requiring an instant example, corporal punishments would be fittest, and, he presumed, most effectual in impressing fear at the moment. It would be more effectual for only being resorted to on such occasions of necessity." 958 "That corporal punishments, as formerly exercised, had, in his opinion, a less good effect than the present mode of confinement and hard labour, solitary confinement taken into account, which he considered the best kind of punishment." "That supposing the means of applying the punishment of imprisonment with hard labour to be made more perfect and complete, corporal punishments might be dispensed with on home service, for common military offences committed under ordinary circumstances." "Taking all circumstances into consideration, are you of opinion that, as far as Great Britain and Ireland are concerned, it would be possible to do away entirely with corporal punishment?—I must say, I should be sorry to be deprived of the power; but, I think it would be practicable, for we might apply for general Courts-martial, and these men might be transported; but we must have reference to a higher power for such Courts-martial, and the delay would be injurious. I will state why I should object to the power being taken from us; suppose, in time of peace, we can obtain men of that description, that we can carry on the discipline of a corps without corporal punishment, if we should unfortunately get involved in a war, we must take any able-bodied men who can be got to fill our ranks; and if the power were taken away from the Courts-martial, I am persuaded that the Legislature would never restore it. The power had better,
 959 "So that your opinion is, that it might be possible to do away with corporal punishment in most cases, but that the power ought to be reserved?—Yes; but if I could firmly believe—what I am disposed to hope—that the absolute abolition of corporal punishment would have the effect, along with other expedients, of drawing to the army a more respectable description of recruits than we generally have at present, I would give it up in all cases except the field." "I do not feel a very strong opinion on the subject. I should, however, be rather inclined to try the experiment." "That as long as it was composed of Highlanders only, he could preserve discipline without corporal punishment; but that, when it came to be mixed up with other materials (which the gallant Colonel considers less worthy materials), he was obliged, in the West-Indies, where even his own Highlanders had been contaminated, to have recourse to corporal punishment for violence to non-commissioned officers, drunkenness on guard, or sleeping on their posts, generally arising from drunkenness." "I have always felt anxious to avoid it [cor-
 960 "Have you had many instances of renewal of offence after flogging in the same individual? "Have you had many renewals of offence after solitary confinement?—Yes, we have. "From that observation, the impression upon your mind would be, that the one punishment had less effect upon the mind of the individual than the other?—I think the solitary confinement had less effect upon the mind of the man than corporal punishment in improving him; and also by way of example. "Have you any idea that the infliction of corporal punishment in sight of the men has an injurious effect, in rather exciting sympathy on the part of the soldiers?—No, I do not think so. Corporal punishment is not resorted to except in very extreme cases." 961 "Until some plan of that kind was adopted, no abandonment of the punishment of flogging could be thought of. Whether with the aid of some such plan as that it. might be found possible, even on home-service, he was not able to say; but there could be no doubt that the sudden promulgation of a law for the immediate abolition would be equivalent to a proclamation in favour of mutiny. The punishment of flogging, if ever it were to be abolished, should be made gradually to disappear in practice by the silent substitution of other methods, before its express and formal abolition." "Supposing that an order was to issue from head quarters entirely to abolish the practice of flogging, could you be answerable for the discipline of the Coldstream regiment, which is now under your command?—I think not, decidedly; I could not be answerable for it. I think there would be mutinous conduct, and that would increase very much. "Are we then to understand that your opinion is, that corporal punishment should be resorted to in cases of necessity only, but that the power of inflicting it should be retained?—Most decidedly; I conceive that if you were not to retain the power of punishing men by flogging, the officers might as well pull off their hats to the regiment, and wish them good-by." "Are you of opinion that corporal punishment has more effect in deterring an individual from the re-commission of crime, than imprisonment with hard labour?—Yes, certainly. "What is your opinion of it as an example to other soldiers who witness it?—I have no
 962 "After what you have stated, it is scarcely necessary to ask you, whether you conceive it would be possible to keep up the discipline of the 3rd regiment of Guards, without the power of inflicting corporal punishment in certain cases?—It is my decided opinion that it would not. "From your experience when on service, do you think it would be possible, under any regulations whatever, to carry on the discipline of the army without corporal punishment? I should say, certainly not; I cannot conceive how it could be done." "Since corporal punishments have been less frequent in the Artillery, is it your opinion that the discipline of the regiment has been more or less easily maintained?—I am humbly of opinion that it has not been of advantage to the service; that in former times you tied up a man and flogged him, and the example was immediate and good; now a man knows exactly how far he may go; he knows he will not be tried by court-martial unless he goes to a certain extent; he will keep within the extent, knowing he will have only a few days confinement for that." 963
 Mr. Poulter  said, it could not be denied that much had been done of late years towards the abolition of military flogging; but still, in spite of all the high authorities which had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he thought a better system might be
 964 salus exercitus est suprema lex, Hear, hear! Sandon. 965 966 967
 Colonel Thompson  thought that the direct appeal which had been made to him must be considered by the House a sufficient justification for his referring to two cases which he mentioned in his evidence. The first case to which he referred was thus given in the Report:—
 "I can give two instances bearing upon the fact. I will first give one which occurred in the 95th, or Rifle regiment, where corporal punishment was not carried to its usual extent in consequence of that feeling. The day before we landed on the unfortunate expedition to Buenos Ayres, being the officer on watch, I heard a private say, 'The officers had better take care of themselves, for we shall have them in our front to-morrow.' I knew what that meant; that if an officer did anything in the way of discipline which the men did not like, he should be shot. I brought the man up for punishment, and the man was tried. At that time corporal punishment was almost the only punishment in vogue, except for very slight crimes. The Court-martial found him guilty, and inflicted upon him, if I recollect right, 150 lashes; which, although it may be a severe punishment in itself, was a very slight punishment in reference to the scale of punishment then existing in the army. For a man would have received 150 lashes on any complaint of a captain; for instance, of his being once or twice drunk, or being habitually dirty. I had been told in quarters in England, when trying to bring down a man's punishment to 150 lashes at a regimental Court-martial, 'You must not make a joke of the service.' Therefore it struck me strongly, that, upon that occasion, there was a manifest letting down of the scale of punishment—a failure of the system; it was avowed practically to the soldiers that the officers would not, or could not, maintain the scale of punishment previously in use." "I recollect, in the 14th Dragoons, having occasion to make a complaint against soldiers who had committed what t considered a military crime. I was ordered, in the Peninsular
 968 969
 Viscount Sandon  said, that, as one of the Commissioners, he had given the subject the greatest attention, and had weighed the whole of the evidence, and he had come to this conclusion—that it was not practicable to carry on the discipline of the army on foreign service without the power of inflicting the punishment of flogging in certain cases, but he would confess, that with the exception of offences committed on a march or stealing, which is in itself disgraceful, he thought that dispensing with flogging would be practicable in the home service; but still he thought that the power of inflicting the lash should not be given up until something was found which would prove an efficient substitute for it. Formerly the execution of the sentences of district Courts-martial were delayed until they lost much of the salutary effects which punishment immediately following the crime was calculated to pro-
 970 "You have said there are peculiar circumstances, even on the home service, when it would be necessary to recur to corporal punishment, will you state those circumstances?—On prisoners already undergoing, by sentence
 971 972
 Mr. Hume :—The noble Lord who just sat down had alluded to the general order lately promulgated from the Horse Guards, as having had the effect of materially limiting the number of corporal punishments in the British army. Now, he (Mr. Hume) most unhesitatingly denied, that the order in question had had any such effect. Indeed, it was to him a matter of surprise, that after the expression of opinion upon the subject of corporal punishment by a majority of that House in 1833 (he called it a majority, for although the motion for suppression was lost by a majority of eleven, if allowance were made for the thirty-five Members then composing Ministerial corps, it was allowable to say, that the preponderance of opinion was in favour of the Motion), it was he said a matter of surprise that the authorities of the Horse Guards should have thought to silence the public voice by such a make-belief as in reality the order in question amounted to. The Motion of 1833 was only lost by the manner in which the Ministerial phalanx voted, and as the influence of office invariably actuated it—there was in point of fact a majority in favour of the Motion. How the Ministerial phalanx was likely to vote upon the present occasion he would not take upon himself to say, although from the specimen they had had in the case of the learned Judge Advocate there was every reason to fear that the same baneful influence which lost the Motion of 1833 would defeat that of 1836.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson —I entirely deny being influenced in my opposition to the
 973
 Mr. Hume —The right hon. and learned Gentleman might deny that such was the fact; and no doubt he flattered himself that such was the fact, but he contended it was impossible for any man who heard his speech of that evening not to believe, though it might be without his being conscious of it, that the learned Judge was influenced by office. He had certainly taken a great deal of trouble to bring forward extracts from the evidence, but, in his humble opinion, he had studiously avoided calling attention to those passages which threw the most light upon the subject. There was, for example, only one passsage of his (Mr. Hume's) evidence, which could in any way be brought to sanction the infliction of corporal punishment, and that the right hon. Gentleman had quoted, and omitted all the rest. As a Judge he was bound to have given a fair abstract of all his opinions, or to have abstained from quoting one of them. But in speaking of corporal punishment, as inflicted in the army, he did not at all consider the extent to which it was administered. He spoke of it generally, as conveying a description of punishment by which men were degraded; and if, as he believed was the case, the infliction of the lash, were applied once or five hundred times, excited an equal sense of degradation, it mattered little what the degree of torture in each case was. What the result of his hon. Friend's Motion might be he could not anticipate; but he was confident, even though it did not now succeed, that ere long public feeling would compel the Legislature to put an end to a practice which, while it degraded, tended to brutalize the British army. He owned it was with some satisfaction he heard hon. Members on the opposite side of the House declare that atrocious cases of punishment had taken place in the British army. But a few years ago that which was now admitted to be atrocious would have been designated by those same individuals as harmless and necessary. This was something, and he welcomed the change as a happy omen for the future. Again, a few years ago it was urged, that the least interference with regard to the subject would tend to the disorganization of the army. Many of those who so argued, now admitted that much good had resulted from the trifling limitation which had been made in the number of offences corporally punishable, This was again auspicious, and he hailed it
 974 
 
 Abstract of the Number of Corporal Punishments inflicted in the Army, Navy, and Marine, in each of the four years, from 1830 to 1833, both inclusive. 
 Army p. p 88 of 1834. Navy p.p. 419 of 1834. Marine p.p. 393 of 1834. Total number in each year Average of these four years. 
 1830 655 2022 71 2748 2382 
 1831 646 1727 89 2462 
 1832 485 1762 101 2348 
 1833 370 1502 99 1971 
 Total number in each Service. 2156 7013 360 9529 975 "(Circular—confidential) "Horse Guards, August 24, 1833. "SIR,—His Majesty's Government having signified to the General commanding in chief, the King's command that, until further orders, corporal punishments may be applied to the following offences only, I have the honour to express Lord Hill's desire that you guide yourself accordingly, taking care that, except in the instances herein specified, the said punishment shall on no account be inflicted, viz.:
 
 "1. For mutiny, insubordination and violence, or using or offering violence to superior officers. "2. Drunkenness on duty. "3. Sale of, or making away with arms, ammunition, accoutrements, or necessaries, stealing from comrades, or other disgraceful conduct. "It will doubtless occur to you that the object of these instructions is not to render the infliction of corporal punishment for the future more frequent or more certain than it is at present, even in the cases to which it is now to be restricted; but, on the contrary, that the intention is to restrain it as much as it may be possible to do so, with safety to the discipline of the army.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your very obedient humble servant. "JOHN MACDONALD, Adjutant-General. "Officer commanding." 976
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  explained: That the hon. Member for Middlesex, when he professed to correct him, had been referring to a totally different document from that which he (Mr. Fergusson) had used; his statements were therefore not misstatements though they were not the statements of the hon. Member.
 Viscount Howick  had expected that the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, would have attempted to meet the real difficulties of this important question; for in his evidence before the Commissioners, the hon. Member had shewn that he was not ignorant of what those difficulties really were. But he had listened in vain throughout the whole speech of the hon. Member for any attempt to deal with them or any argument in support of the motion which the House had under its consideration. The only ground which the hon. Member had laid for his vote appeared to him, to be the opinion he had expressed, that by holding out a better prospect of reward for good conduct, and particularly by opening wider the door to promotion, you might do away with the necessity of corporal punishment altogether. That was the real drift of all the hon. Member's numerous observations. On that point he could not agree with the hon. Member. He certainly admitted, that the influence of rewards in our service had not yet been sufficiently tried, and that much good would result from offering additional and stronger
 983 boulet; 984 985 Cheers. Yes. l. 986 987 988 989 travaux forcés, boulet, boulet? 990 boulet boulet remplacans 991 992 993 994 995 
 
 Date. Sentence. Inflicted. 
 November 2, 1822 300 lashes … 300 
 November 8, 1822 300 … 300 
 November 28, 1822 300 … 250 
 November 30, 1822 300 … 300 
 December 2, 1822 300 … 300 
 December 20, 1822 300 … 300 
 January 28, 1823 600 … none. 
 January 28,1823 800 … 800 
 February 12, 300 … 300 
 In the same month two more Courts-martial; sentence in each case 300 … 300 
 March 1, 300 … 300 996 997
 Mr. Robinson : Sir, I apprehend that a vote of this House, abolishing military flogging in time of peace, would not necessarily imply the propriety of its abolition before the enemy in time of war. Let us then examine whether by voting for the resolution of the hon. and gallant Member for Barnstaple, as intend to do, we are committed in respect to the necessity for taking away the power of inflicting that punishment in time of war. I admit that, looking at the words of the resolution itself, it would appear that that power is to be taken away both during war and peace; but every body knows that if the majority of this House declare their disapprobation of military flogging, by carrying the resolution of the hon. and gallant Member for Barnstaple, it must necessarily lead to an alteration in the Mutiny Act; and then we shall have an opportunity, in considering the terms of that alteration, for deciding whether or not it is fit and proper that the power of military flogging should be preserved in time of war. Therefore, Sir, I am prepared to vote, notwithstanding all that has been said against the motion, and I admit that much has been said, coming as it did from professional Gentlemen, who are better qualified for giving an opinion upon the subject than I can be, which was entitled to great attention. I am prepared, I say, to vote in favour of this resolution; for I cannot conceive where that danger is to be apprehended about which we have heard so much, from affirming, by a vote of this House, the propriety of the abolition of military flogging in time of war. The noble Lord, the Secretary at War, who has spoken as he always does with great ability, and has adduced every argument that can possibly be brought forward in support of the present system,—that noble Lord has given us no reason to hope that if this resolution be rejected he contemplates the abolition of military flogging in this country. He has frankly and freely avowed that the only hope he can hold out is, that by adopting a better system of rewards, (which I do believe the Government, and every officer in the army are as anxious as any Member of this House to introduce) we may, perhaps, in time be able to do without this punishment. But, Sir, I do believe that this country is decided in its opinion upon this question; and that it is
 998
 Major Beauclerk  said, the question of corporal punishment in the army had for a long time occupied a great deal of his attention; and he was now happy to find that it was no longer regarded in that
 999
 Sir Henry Hardinge , before he addressed a few observations to the House on the subject which at present engaged his attention, must express his disappointment that the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down did not intend to vote with the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, because in the evidence given by the hon. and gallant Member before the Commissioners, he had distinctly stated he ever had maintained, and ever must maintain, that it would not be possible to dispense with the power of corporal punishment.
 Major Beauclerk  begged to set the right hon. and gallant Member right. He had stated before the Commissioners that corporal punishment might be necessary in time of war, and he said so still.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  did not pretend to quote the exact words of the hon. and gallant Member, because at the moment he had not them before him. On turning to the Report, however, he found that, in answer to question 782, the hon. and gallant Member had said, "I have never maintained that on service it could be done away with. I think it stands to reason that the officers must then have additional powers." He would appeal to the House, without wishing at all to take an unfair advantage of the hon. and gallant Member, whether it was possible for any man reading that sentence to come to any other conclusion than that which he had expressed? The hon. and gallant Officer had alluded to a noble Lord who had lately held a high military and civil station in India, and who had taken upon himself a step of the highest responsibility in the abolition of military punishments amongst the native troops in that country. If that noble Lord (Lord W. Bentinck) were then in his place, he was convinced, from what he had perused of the noble Lord's sentiments on this subject, he would agree with him and the hon. and gallant Member for Surrey, in asserting, that corporal punishments could not be done away with on service in the field. He repeated that, with the exception of the hon. and gallant Member for Barnstaple and the hon. and gallant Member for Hull, every Member on both sides of the House who had been examined before the Commissioners had given it as their opinion, that it was impossible to dispense with corporal punishments on service without endangering the efficiency of the army. Nothing could be more distinct than the evidence on this point of the hon. Member for Middlesex. Nothing could be more clear than the evidence of the noble Lord to whom allusion had so often been made in the course of the present debate (Lord W. Bentinck); in short, the evidence generally went to show, that to deprive a commanding officer of the power of inflicting corporal punishment would be to render it impossible to conduct an army on service with success. What was the opinion of an hon. and gallant Member of the House, not now in
 1001
 Major Beauclerk  rose to order. As the hon. and gallant Member spoken of was not in his place, he appealed to the House whether it was fair to pursue the course now followed by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman.
 Sir Henry Hardinge : The hon. and gallant Gentleman had interrupted him prematurely, and should have allowed him to have concluded the sentence. He, however, would repeat, that the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster had carried corporal punishments to an extent never before known in any British force that ever left the shores of this country, and, when interrupted, he was going to add, that the peculiar circumstances of the corps under his command probably justified the course which that hon. and gallant Officer had pursued, for he (Sir H. Hardinge) found from the evidence of Colonel Dickson, who had lately returned from that service, and been examined before the Commissioners, that it was absolutely necessary to apply corporal punishment, in consequence of the men having been brought together in so sudden a manner, and without an ordinary time allowed for
 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007
 Viscount Howick , in explanation, said,
 1008
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that in 1829 or 1830 there had been an alteration made by him in the military code to that effect.
 Sir Edward Codrington  wished to correct an erroneous impression which might have been made by the statement of the hon. and gallant Member for Hull, that the mutiny at the Nore was to be attributed to the severity of flogging in the fleet. Such was not the case; for he (Sir E. Codrington) would venture to say, that the mutiny at the Nore arose from want of punishment. He had served on board the ship in which it first broke out, and had himself told a person in very high authority, that such would be the case unless the bad men were punished and the good men encouraged. The mutiny arose from the confinement consequent upon impressment and from the want of discipline being established by punishment.
 Colonel Thomas  said, he had been in command of a regiment in India for eight years, and had been obliged to have recourse to punishments of unusual severity; but, in the course of two years there was less corporal punishment in his regiment than in that of any in the army. This showed that flogging might be done away with to a very great extent; but still the power must exist. He had substituted extraordinary drills from day light in the morning till sunset at night. These substitutions were so disliked, that some of the soldiers wished for flogging to be restored.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, that having been in the army upwards of forty years, he did not like to give a silent vote on this occasion. There was no man in that House or in the country who was more hostile to corporal punishment than he was, and he had always discouraged it as much as it was in his power. But when he was called upon to do away with corporal punishment altogether, and to put
 1009
 Dr. Baldwin  had before voted against military torture, and he should do so now, were he to follow the impulse of his feelings; but he had a public duty to discharge, and he felt that he should not be discharging that duty conscientiously were he now to vote for the immediate abolition of corporal punishment in spite of the opinion of so many high military authorities, that the abolition must be gradual.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he had had several years experience in the service, and therefore felt himself justified in expressing his opinion on the subject; and, above all, as his sentiments had been misrepresented. He contended that they must continue the practice of corporal punishment in the army, but he had not the least hesitation in saying, that except in cases of absolute necessity it ought not to be exercised. Some language had been put into his mouth on the subject, which was very different from any thing that he had uttered. He was happy to find that he was supported in the opinion which he entertained by several very distinguished officers, of much greater experience than himself.
 Mr. Pemberton  inquired, whether the compulsory commutation was to be left to the discretion of the Commissioners, or to be fixed in all cases?
 Lord John Russell  did not wish at all to enter into what had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex. The hon. Gentleman thought that no compulsory commutation should take place until the Corn-laws were repealed. That opinion was quite different from his views. He thought it was his duty, and the duty of Government, to propose to the House that plan of commutation which they thought practically fair and just to all parties, and leave it to the House to decide whether or not it should be adopted. He should study to amend the Bill as much as he could, but he meant to put that question fairly to the House.
 Lord John Russell  thought it was necessary he should notice what had just fallen from the right hon. Baronet. He did not expect, in stating the general substance of the alterations he meant to propose, that the right hon. Gentleman would now have undertaken to predict the failure of this Bill, and recommend measures to be adopted in consequence of that predicted failure. He considered it of very great importance that the House and the Parliament should come to a decision on this subject in the present Session. If anything were required to strengthen his conviction, he should find it in the notice given by the hon. Member for Kent, and supported by the hon. Member for Sussex, who declared, that he himself would otherwise make the same proposition—namely, to deprive those persons having a right to the tenth of the produce from claiming during the present year that their tithe should be set out in kind. Such a notice showed how important it was, that Parliament should come to some decision upon the subject. He must remind the House that last year, after a great deal of information had been collected at various times by his noble Friend, Lord Althorp, he stated, that as there was much difference in various parts of the country, he thought it advisable that a Select Committee of the House should sit, in which Members from different parts of the country would have an opportunity of meeting, and discussing, and hearing evidence, on the sub-
 930
 Lord John Russell  did not intend to make any alteration in the limits of sixty and seventy-five per cent. Undoubtedly there might be cases in which it would be necessary to make exceptions, but he was on the whole satisfied with those limits, though he did not mean to say that, in the course of the discussion, satisfactory reasons might not be produced for altering the valuation under particular circumstances. With respect to the second question put by the right hon. Gentleman, he proposed that, in the case of compulsory commutation, the mode of applotting should be the same as in the case of voluntary commutation, but if the parties did not agree within a certain time, the Commissioners should take steps to have an applotment made in the parish.
 Lord John Russell , on moving the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee upon the Tithes' Commutation Bill, would take the opportunity of explaining the principal alterations which he intended to propose, without going into matters of detail. The Bill originally proceeded upon the principle that individuals were to make voluntary arrangements which might afterwards be combined in a general arrangement, applicable to each parish. In a similar way, compulsory arrangements were to be made, applicable to the particular property of individuals, and afterwards, in like manner, to be applied to a whole parish. Owing to the difficulties pointed out, especially by his hon. Friend, the Member for Cumberland, he intended to introduce a number of clauses, to proceed in a different course; that is to say, that when a certain proportion of the landowners or tithe-payers, say two-thirds, proposed a voluntary arrangement, it should be binding upon the parish; and if it do not take place previous to the 1st of October, 1837, the period he before mentioned, then the Commissioners, if they thought fit, according to a suggestion from an hon. and learned Member opposite, might order a tithe commutation for the whole parish. In either case, the landowners would appoint two valuers; one by a majority in value, and the other by a majority in number. These valuers would applot the whole sum to the particular estates and farms in the parish; and when that applotment was made, the proceeding would be carried on according to the principle and details he formerly explained. He had paid great attention to the Bill brought in by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) for voluntary commutation, and had adopted as many of its details as would be an improvement of his own measure; and as there are some alterations required in the first clauses, which had been agreed to, it would be necessary to go through them as well as the rest of the Bill, in order that the whole might be consistently amended. Within a day or two afterwards the Bill would be reprinted, and delivered to hon. Members. He moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Tithe Commutation Bill.
 Mr. Hume  having been one of those who approved of the Bill introduced by the noble Lord, and having expressed himself favourable to it, was bound to state, that, having maturely considered every portion of the Bill, and having received many communications from persons better qualified than himself to judge of its operation, he thought, if carried into effect, it would be extremely burdensome to the landed property of the country, because he considered that the value of tithes during the last fourteen or fifteen years had been artificially kept up by the state of the Corn-laws. Why then fix on such a standard at the present moment, when the Corn-laws existed, but when he thought they could not continue longer? He believed, if they
 926
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the time for discussing the subject would be when the Stamp Act was under the consideration of the House. However, he had no hesitation in saying, that there were taxes that pressed much more strongly on the attention of his Majesty's Government at the present moment than that complained of in the petition presented by his right hon. Friend. Until a petition on the subject was sent forward by the clients of the attorneys, he thought any applications would have but little weight; as it was out of their pockets that the tax ultimately came. However, the difference between the London and country practitioners was worthy of consideration, and it should receive attention when the subject of the Stamp Acts came to be reconsidered. It would, however, surprise hon. Members if they were to know how the Government were assailed by conflicting applications on this head. The young attorneys were desirous for an annual tax, and a reduction of the tax on coming into the profession; and the old members were desirous for a high
 923
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was anxious to put the House and the public in possession of the facts relating to recent  ex-parte s. d. s. d. s. d.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to ask the noble Lord opposite, whether he proposed to make any alteration in the sums he assumed as the  maximum minimum
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to say, in explanation, that his recommendation was founded on the assumption that the Bill had not met with the general concurrence of the House. It appeared to him from his observation of the opinions which had been expressed on the Ministerial as well as on the other side of the House, that the noble Lord's Bill was not likely to meet with general concurrence; and in the event of that being the case, he thought they might remedy the inconvenience of further delay by adopting the course which he had suggested. It could not then be said, that he had shown a disposition to throw any obstructions in the way of the Bill; on the contrary, he wished the noble Lord to have every opportunity of rendering the measure as perfect as possible. He certainly was of opinion, that it was better for the Government to come forward with a plan than to refer the question to a Select Committee, and thus have to determine as to the adoption of the Report; but when he saw that in three successive years three plans had been brought forward, all of which were unfavourably received, he thought that was
 931
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to say a word generally upon the subject of this very important question. The noble Lord now proposed to make several very important alterations in the Bill, and he had a very strong apprehension that another year would pass away after another ineffectual attempt to make an arrangement for the commutation of tithes. Every attempt made, which proved to be ineffectual, rather impeded the chances of a future and satisfactory settlement. If the objection advanced against this Bill by the hon. Member for Middlesex were a valid one, it would be entirely fatal to any plan
 927 928 929
 The Marquess of Chandos  observed, that the Agricultural Committee had full power for entering into this question. He did not think that the best mode for determining it could be by the report of a separate committee.
 Mr. Anderson Pelham  had no objection to the motion, so far as the appointment of a Committee, because he thought the subject well worthy of being considered by the House.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that ever since he had had the honour of representing the Tower Hamlets a very strong feeling had existed amongst a great portion of his constituents on this question. A great number of persons belonging to the shipping interest, or trades connected therewith, had repeatedly and loudly complained of the present state of the law as it affected them; and in the justice of those complaints he must say, that he very strongly concurred, and thought that some remedy should be adopted. At the same time he admitted that considerable difficulty might be found in remedying the evils complained of, particularly as a difference of opinion seemed to exist as to the extent of the evil itself, and the nature of the objects which should be held in view. For his own part he thought it was not material whether the corn were manufactured for the foreign market only, or whether it were also applied to the use of our own shipping; he did not think it would be a sufficient relief to allow a drawback upon corn manufactured into biscuits for foreign use; the same principle, if applied to all, ought to be applied equally to biscuits manufactured for our own shipping. It was notorious that, by the present state of the law our ships were often induced to go to Hamburgh and other foreign ports for their biscuits, instead of taking them from the home market. Upon these considerations, he should certainly support the motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. O'Connell,  before the House divided, begged leave respectfully to enter his protest against this practice of military flogging. It was a practice so odious in its very nature, that he observed that the hon. Gentlemen who spoke in support of it, invariably shrunk from calling it by its right name. They talked of the infliction of corporal punishment; but they did not choose to designate it by its proper appellation of—military flogging. Any infliction upon a man's person was corporal punishment; but this was peculiarly and distinctly the punishment of flogging. He thought it ought not to continue. There was every reason why it should cease, and there was no justification for its being longer preserved. From the portion of the debate which he heard last night, it struck him that all the hon. Members who spoke in support of the continuance of this practice, aimed solely at making out a case for its justification on occasions of extremity, such as that of a state of actual war with the army in the field, when the commander might be suffered to have recourse to such a punishment as a sort of concession. The military officers who were examined before the Committee, appeared to aim at establishing the same position. Why, that extreme case was admitted by many: it ought, perhaps, to be admitted by all. But though the allowance of such an exercise of his discretion might be permitted to the commander, surely that did not meet the spirit, though it might meet the terms of the resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Barnstaple. All the
 1033 1034 Henry Hardinge 1035 1036
 Mr. William Cowper  said, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin might have equally directed his eloquence against all substitutes for flogging, and depicted the degradation of the  boulet, 1037
 Mr. Pemberton  said, it was impossible to disguise the fact, that the present debate was merely a revival of that of last night. It was hardly possible to suppose that any system of military discipline could continue to be effective, if it were thus nightly interfered with, or the constitutional dependence of the army upon the Crown upheld, if the soldiers were night after night, and Session after Session, taught to look up to the House of Commons as the arbiters of their fate. It had not been and could not be denied that the present system of military discipline had produced an army as efficient for all purposes as ever entered the field. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had upon the present occasion, according to his usual practice, spoken eloquently, but without much regard to matters of fact. The hon. and learned Member complained of the inhumanity of the punishment adopted in the army. Now, the humanity or inhumanity of that punishment must, like every other species of punishment, depend on the necessity or the absence of necessity for its infliction. The infliction of any human suffering, whether it were solitary confinement, forced labour, or flogging, if necessary, was inhuman; but if by the infliction of it a greater degree of human suffering was prevented, by the infliction of any one of the punishments, he must deny that it was inhuman. The hon. and learned Member had inveighed against the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Henry Hardinge) for having flogged a body of raw troops, but General Evans, who had found himself obliged to act in the same manner, under the same circumstances, had wholly escaped his censure. The conclusion to which the hon. and learned Member arrived, from the statement made by the right hon. and gallant Officer, was certainly very extraordinary. The hon. Member said, that the statement alluded to satisfied him of the inefficiency of corporal punishments; but the effect which it had produced upon his (Mr. Pemberton's) mind was diametri-
 1038 1039 1040 1041
 Captain Boldero  rose to put a question to the hon. Member for Maldon, who had a motion tonight regarding the Mutiny Bill. After the full discussion the question of flogging in the army had undergone last night, and after the been given by Government, in the diminution of 100 lashes to be inflicted by regimental and garrison Courts-martial, he submitted to the hon. Member, whether it would not he injurious to the service, of which he (Captain Boldero) was a member, again to bring the question before the House. He had consulted several military friends upon the subject, and they were of opinion that it could not but be prejudicial again to introduce the discussion. He, therefore, humbly begged the hon. Member for Maldon not to press his motion this evening.
 Mr. Craven Berkeley,  in answer to the assertion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the soldier would be gratified by the discussion of the subject in that House, denied that the soldier, generally speaking, had any desire to see corporal punishment abolished in the army. He had been long in the service; and he spoke from experience and observation. He remembered when there were what were called company Courts- martial among the privates themselves, the invariable result of which was to inflict corporal punishment, much more severe than that inflicted by regimental Courts-martial; so severe, indeed, that the authorities at the Horse Guards were obliged to interfere to suppress the practice. He denied, therefore, that the soldiers were averse to the existence of corporal punishment; and he was convinced, that if the whole army could be marched individually to the Bar of that House, such would be found to be their opinion. The fact was, that the subject had been most fully and fairly discussed last night. But the hon. Member for Maldon had a cut and dried speech in his pocket,  ad captandum vulgus,
 Lord William Bentinck  felt it necessary, after the allusion which had been made to him, to address a few words to the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman, who had just sat down, seemed to think that he had
 1042 1043
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  considered that the proposition would afford great relief to the shipping interest, and not affect the agricultural interest injuriously. He should, therefore, support the motion.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  admitted, that if the question could be considered by the Agricultural Committee it ought to be. He must be permitted to say, that he could not agree in opinion with the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Ewart), that the agriculturists wished to protect themselves at the expense of the other interests of the country. Nothing would give him greater pleasure than that those interests should receive relief, as far as it fairly could be conceded to them. He could not pledge himself that the Agricultural Committee could make a special report on this subject, but he could assure them that they gave the subject submitted to them the most impartial consideration; and when their Report should be laid before the House, he
 1025
 Colonel Sibthorp  contended, that the agricultural distress which prevailed in the country, called for the most serious attention. On this subject he had himself presented two petitions from important agricultural districts in Lincolnshire. After the expectations that had been held out by the labours of the Agricultural Committee, he could not conceive a greater blow to the hopes of the agriculturists than the declaration that had been made by the President of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought, that he had fully explained his views of the subject to the House, but it appeared he had not rendered himself intelligible to his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex. He (Mr. Thomson) stated, that he saw no objection to the adoption of the principle; and this information he had given to the parties who had waited upon him, of allowing the holders of foreign wheat in bond to grind it in bond, and to export it. When he made this proposition he was told by the parties that the adoption of that prin-
 1023
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  expressed his regret, that the hon. Gentleman, when he gave notice of his motion, did not specify more clearly what his object was. The hon. Gentleman had said, that he should submit a motion relative to the grinding of foreign corn in bond; but such a notice did not afford an intimation of the course which the hon. Gentleman had felt himself called on to pursue. He certainly should say, in reply to the hon. Gentleman, that he did not think the House would do wisely if it consented to this motion, inasmuch as he was of opinion that this was a question which should be left to the Agricultural Committee, who would no doubt consider the different plans laid before them, and report according to the evidence produced in support of those plans. He had been called on, in pursuance of his duty, to consider the subject, and so far as he was able to make himself master of it, he must say he did not think that any advantage would result from an investigation by a Committee, especially devoted to this particular inquiry, in the manner proposed by the hon. Gentleman. The motion was, "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire under what regulations and instructions foreign corn and flour warehoused in bond might be allowed to be manufactured and re-exported, without prejudice to the public revenue, or to the interests of agriculture." Now he was willing, as he had told some parties who had applied to him on the subject, to bring in a Bill himself to carry into effect all the hon. Gentleman sought for, according to the terms of the motion, but the difficulty was this: there could be no objection to allow the foreign corn which was in bond to be ground in this country and re-exported—that was to say, if the parties having the corn in bond would, under the King's lock, grind it, and re-export all the
 1019 1020
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  replied, that his answer to that question was, that the whole of the produce should be re-exported.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, his principle was that the whole of the produce should be re-exported.
 Mr. Robinson  in reply stated, that for the sake of arriving at a perfectly fair and satisfactory conclusion, he was desirous that if his motion were acceded to, the Committee should consist one half of Members con-
 1026
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the motion he was about to submit, was one of so much public importance, so reasonable in itself, and therefore so free from objection, that he could not anticipate any resistance to it either by Government or by any considerable number of Members. It would be to this effect, "That a Select Committee be appointed, to consider under what regulations and restrictions foreign corn and flour in bond might be admitted to entry for manufacture, and exported without prejudice to the revenue;" in other words, without any evasion of the
 1016 1017 1018
 Mr. Young  asked, could baked biscuits be also bonded?
 Mr. George F. Young  considered that this been might be granted without occasioning any detriment whatever to the agricultural interest, and entertaining that view of the subject, he should support the motion of his hon. Friend. He (Mr. Young) should be satisfied and content if any six members of the agricultural interest in that House would set themselves down in a Committee room up stairs, and after examining into all the details on the subject, adjudicate and determine on this question. He should be perfectly willing to abide by their decision, because he was satisfied that they would decide the question, without the slightest suspicion of their being actuated by a view to their own interests. He must say, that he thought the shipping interest, with which he had the honour to be connected, was hardly dealt with in reference to this question, and he thought the right hon. the President of the Board, ought to allow this subject to be made matter of inquiry, which was all his hon. Friend asked. He considered that it was a fit subject to be submitted to a Committee, and, therefore, he should support the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Young  asked if he would allow it only in the shape of biscuits?
 Sir Henry Hardinge  certainly thought that, after the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Finsbury, that hon. Gentleman would confer a benefit on the service and the country, and he would confer a benefit on the interests of humanity, if he would take the proper steps to denounce to the Commander-in-chief the officer, whoever he might be, who had been guilty of the conduct described. If the information which had been communicated to the hon. Member for Finsbury were correct, and if it could be proved that any officer had so misconducted himself, the indignation of the army and the country would justly fall upon that person, and the hon. Member would do an inestimable benefit to the military service, by letting it be seen who was the offending party. For himself, he (Sir H. Hardinge) could declare upon his honour, that he had never before heard of such a circumstance, and that he believed it to be almost impossible. He repeated, however, that if the information which the hon. Member for Finsbury had received was correct, that hon. Gentleman ought immediately to take the step which he (Sir H. Hardinge) had recommended, in order to remove so gross an imputation from commanding officers generally. He was sure that the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, would concur with him in his opinion.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that when his right hon. Friend considered the proposition as impracticable, he very properly opposed a mode of proceeding that might interfere with settled interests, and could only tend to encourage speculations injurious to trade. The right hon. Member, in conclusion, bore testimony to the fairness and impartiality with which the Agricultural Committee had acquitted themselves of their duties.
 Mr. Warburton  was decidedly in favour of this subject being referred to a Committee, and he could not conceive why the motion of the hon. Member for Worcester should not be granted.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  said, he did not think that the discipline of the army could be maintained without the present system of flogging. In limiting the punishment, as it was proposed, to 200 lashes, he thought that a great part of the objections to the practice would be done away with. As to the exemption of our troops in India from the lash, he thought, if it were admitted, the system must be adopted at home, the very first relief from that part of our possessions; believing as he did that the motion if carried, would be destructive to the discipline of the army, he must oppose it.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that he was opposed to all restrictions upon commerce of any description, which were always found to have an injurious operation. He supported the motion of the hon. Member opposite, as a step to the repeal of the Corn-laws, which must eventually take place, and which, if the agriculturists themselves would overcome their prejudices, they would find would be for their own interest. The removal of all restrictions upon commerce would be for the benefit of the country. Under this feeling, he was anxious to give his assistance to the motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for Worcester came from his Majesty's Ministers or the agricultural interest? In the latter case, he should have expected that the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Chandos) who had shown such a laudable zeal for that interest—zeal that was certainly consistent, and he thought, highly
 1022
 Mr. Eaton  perfectly coincided in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, that the once permitting foreign corn to be ground in this country would be attended with numerous frauds. But he believed that the real intention was to smuggle the flour into the English market. He did not see any reason why the foreign corn should not be ground in Newfoundland, as the bonded corn in this country was a millstone round the neck of the British farmer.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that his objection to the motion was, because the House was called upon to take it for granted, that foreign corn which had been imported into this country, under restrictions, ought to be allowed to be ground in this country for exportation; and the hon. Member for Worcester said, he would refer the subject to a Committee, in order to determine what regulations were necessary for the purpose of carrying this object into effect. He (Mr. Fergusson) believed, that the real intentions of those who mooted the question was, inasmuch as they had failed in their speculations to grind their bonded corn in this country and get it consumed here to the
 1021
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  brought up the Report of the Committee on the Mutiny Bill. On the Question that it be agreed to—
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson : although he did not complain of the manner in which the hon. Member for Finsbury had discharged what he conceived to be his duty on the present occasion, he yet felt that it was impossible to leave the question in its present condition. Undoubtedly, before the hon. Gentleman had ventured to make his statement, he ought to have been prepared with proof of an assertion which implicated the character of some particular officer, and of the army itself. The hon. Gentleman ought to have been certain that the alleged fact was indisputable; he ought to have been certain that his authority was one on which he could implicitly rely, or he should have abstained from saying a word on the subject. Having brought that subject forward, however, the hon. Gentleman was now bound by every honourable consideration, to disclose in the proper quarter the name of the offending party, in order that the offence might be visited with due punishment; and that no stain should be left on the great body of commanding officers, or on the army. He trusted, therefore, either that the hon. Gentleman would give the necessary information, or, if he satisfied himself that the imputation was not well founded, that he would declare so in his place in that House.
 Mr. Lennard  said, Sir, I rise to bring forward a motion, in a more modified form than that which was rejected last night. I am happy, however, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Major Fancourt) did bring forward his resolution in the form in which he presented it to the House, because he thereby gave hon. Members who think as I do, that the time is come when an alteration should take place in the mode of punishing soldiers in the army, an opportunity of expressing their sentiments, and of marking, by their vote, their adherence to the principle embodied in the resolution. But, as the House thought fit to refuse that motion, I am anxious to give hon. Members an opportunity of expressing their opinions on the more modified motion which I shall now submit to the House, and the object of which is, to restrain the infliction of corporal punishment in time of peace upon soldiers employed in the United Kingdom. Sir, in making this Motion, I shall not travel over the ground which was so ably traversed in the debate of last night. The question is, whether in time of profound peace, when there is no pretence for saying that any injury will be done by the insubordination of soldiers in the field or in the presence of the enemy, whether you will so far violate outraged public feeling as to determine upon the continuance of this barbarous, inhuman system in the British army, or whether you will not deem this a proper occasion for endeavouring, by introducing a milder system of punishments, by a better system of recruiting, and by improving generally the condition of the British soldier—whether the time is not arrived when this experiment may be fairly tried? I own, Sir, I am one of those who do believe, that by adopting those measures which were recommended by my hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, you will succeed in forming an army, which, like the French army, you will be able to govern without the infliction of those horrid tortures to which British soldiers have
 1028 1029 1030 1031
 Mr. Lennard  replied, that what had been conceded by Ministers, which the hon. and gallant Member had termed a boon, was not at all satisfactory to him nor to many of his friends, and, in deference to them, he should persevere in the notice he had given.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  stated, that at that moment he would not name either the party, or the authority on which he had made that statement; but with respect to the latter, he would declare, that it was an authority on which he fully relied. Would the hon. and gallant Member opposite, or would the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, say, that a commanding officer had not a discretion in his hands as to the manner in which a corporal punishment should be inflicted? He was glad to hear the opinions which had been expressed on this subject, and he felt it his duty to call on the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, to take care that there should be added to the new orders about to be issued from the Horse Guards, a direction that no discretion should be left in the hands of a commanding officer with respect to the time to which a given amount of corporal punishment might be protracted.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, that although he regretted the decision to which the House had come last night, he allowed that the subject had undergone a fair and ample discussion. What he now rose for, however, was to call the attention of the noble Secretary at War to one point. He understood, that by orders from the Horse Guards the  maximum 1050
 Mr. Gisborne  generally had the pleasure of voting with his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade; but he was sorry that he could not find the slightest excuse for doing so on the present occasion. The hon. Member for Worcester came forward and said if he could show the House that his proposition would not injure the agricultural interest, that then he would call upon them to alter the law as it now stood, and he asked for the Committee on that ground. The answer of his right hon. Friend was, that the hon. Member for Worccester did not want a Committee, that the Agricultural Committee was sitting, and he might go before them.
 1024
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd,  who spoke with great rapidity and indistinctness, which disabled us from collecting more than the general import of his observations, was understood to say, that deeply feeling with those who trusted that the period was not far distant when corporal punishment would be entirely abolished, he could not help congratulating them, and the public, on the tone of the discussions on the subject which had taken place these two nights. Some gratitude was due for the concessions which had been made, and for the ameliorations which had been promised, but the greatest ground for congratulation was yielded by the self-contradictions which the arguments of those who opposed the abolition of this punishment exhibited. Take only the last example, the speech of his hon. and learned Friend, who, in the conclusion of his address to the House, expressed his anticipation of the time arriving at which a cessation of crime in the army would put an end to the infliction of a punishment abhorrent to our nature; whilst, if the argument urged by him in the earlier part of his speech were worth anything, it would induce the House to believe that even the ameliorations that had already taken place, instead of being beneficial, had been productive of mischief and misery. If his argument was worth anything, his hon. and learned Friend must fondly look back to the good old times when men were subjected to the infliction of 800 or 900 lashes. So that while his argument obliged his hon. and learned Friend to go back to the harsh system of former days, his feeling and imagination—more true, more worthy, and more correct—carried him forward to that consummation desired by all good men—when corporal punishment
 1044 1045 1046 1047
 Mr. Wakley  expressed his astonishment at the absurd arguments, so contrary to all reason and propriety, which had been urged by the opponents of the motion. What had been the effect produced in the army by corporal punishments? That it had so degraded the soldier, that in order to maintain proper discipline, it became necessary to inflict no fewer than ten thousand such punishments in one year. Did not that show, that we had adopted a system of punishment which degraded the soldier? It was said, that the punishment had been mitigated; and that instead of 9,000, only 1,800 stripes would be inflicted at a time in future? But what had happened within the last twelvemonth? That, from the infliction of half that number—of fifty lashes—two deaths had occurred. He contended, that in both the cases to which he alluded death had been the result of the flogging. He had examined those cases; he had read the evidence taken before the Coroner's Jury; and it was his firm conviction, that if those men had not been flogged, they would now be alive. A capital punishment, therefore, had been inflicted; a punishment infinitely more than commensurate to the offence. Was it intended to punish insubordination by death—by slaughter? It was said, that a great deal of indifference existed in a portion of the public towards the subject. Where? Let the next election show. Let the Members who voted against the present motion boldly avow having done so on the hustings, and he was persuaded, that they would not find their way back to that House; and he should rejoice at it. He had seen many of the public since the vote of last night. They had all expressed their disgust at that vote. "Good God!" they exclaimed, "and this is a Reformed House of Commons! Why, in the worst times of the House there would have been a better division in support of such a motion." The evidence of the noble Lord who had just described the effect of corporal punishment on the native troops of India, appeared to him (Mr. Wakley) to be conclusive on the point. As to the logic of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had opposed the motion, nothing could be worse. That hon. and learned Gentleman contended, that the repeated discussion of the question must lead to discontent in the army, and to the practical abolition of corporal punishment; and yet he censured those who desired that abolition for agitating the sub-
 1049
 Mr. Ewart  was of opinion, that there was great force in the observations of his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade, but still he was of opinion that the right hon. Gentleman ought to have granted the inquiry sought for. He thought that a tribunal less partially composed than that of the Agricultural Committee, of whom he wished to speak with every respect, should be selected for the discussion and determination upon a proposition like the present. It was his intention to support the proposition of the hon. Member for Worcester.
 Sir Charles Dalbiac,  in reply to the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe), begged to state that no commanding officer had the power of protracting punishments inflicted by order of Courts-martial except at the peril of his commission. He (Sir C. Dalbiac) was prepared to go farther than the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Fergusson) opposite, and to say that a stigma would remain upon every officer in command of a regiment until the charge made by the hon. Member for Finsbury were substantiated or refuted. Under these circumstances he would leave it to the honour and justice of that hon. Gentleman whether, on reflection, he would not think it right to disclose the name of the officer to whose conduct he referred.
 Sir Edward Codrington  had presented petitions on the subject last Session. He was quite sure if the Government would consider the question they would find that no harm would come from the measure, but much good. He had much pleasure in seconding the motion, which, if carried, would be of the utmost benefit to the general interests of the country.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  had heard, with deep regret and astonishment, the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury. If it was really true that such an occurrence had taken place as that described by the hon. Gentleman, let him name the officer, or let him communicate his name to the Horse Guards, and he would express a hope that his Majesty would strike him out of the army list without a Court-martial.
 Viscount Howick  distinctly denied that such a discretion existed; for no commanding officer was authorized to inflict punishment in an unusual manner. There was only one case in his recollection in which this rule had been violated. The occurrence took place in Ireland, and the officer in question had ordered the cats, before they were used, to be steeped in brine. And what was the result? The officer was brought to a Court-martial, and dismissed from his Majesty's service. If, then, an officer would take upon himself, so far to depart from established usage as to increase the time occupied in the infliction of the punishment, in order to in-
 1052
 Viscount Howick  believed, from all he knew of the army, that the existence of such a case as that alluded to by the hon. Member for Finsbury was quite impossible. If the hon. Member did not speak from undoubted authority he was not justified in making the statement he had made. If he did, it was his duty to the country, to the House, and to the army, to proceed with the matter, and by bringing the individual under the notice of the Commander-in-chief, not alone obviate the evil for the present, but also prevent its recurrence for the future. With
 1051
 Viscount Howick  complained, that this motion should have been brought forward as it had been in a very thin House, after the full discussion which the subject had received last night. The hon. Member said that a more modified motion than that
 1032
 Viscount Sandon  considered this a most favourable moment for acting upon the proposition of the hon. Member for Worcester, seeing the difference of prices which now existed between the produce of the United States and of Europe. Our colonies had hitherto been principally supplied from America, but now the prices were so much lower in Europe than in America, that this was the time when the export of that produce could be made with effect.
 Lord Sandon  inquired, if the right hon. Gentleman required that the whole of the offal should be re-exported?
 Mr. Goulburn  wished only to add one word to this discussion. He would implore the House, therefore, as the officer concerned was at so great a distance, to refrain from any further allusion to his conduct. He was sure, that that officer would be the first to demand an investigation into the charges brought against him.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that according to his apprehension, the right hon. Baronet had correctly stated the purport of the Bill, that it would leave to the parochial registration the same force and effect as it possessed at present. He fully agreed in the suggestion that they should first endeavour to make the measure as perfect as possible in Committee, before taking the discussion upon it generally. He altogether objected to referring the measure to a Select Committee, for the subject had already been considered by a Select Committee. There was another objection to referring the measure to a Select Committee, that they would have to discuss matters of principle, which more properly belonged to the consideration of that House.
 Mr. Goulburn  was anxious to offer a few observations on the Bill. So far as the noble Lord had stated that this Bill was framed with the desire of relieving Dissenters from the necessity of being married by the clergymen of the Church of England, he had no hesitation to say that he was willing to go that length. So far as the Bill had that object, and proposed to effect it in an unobjectionable way, he was quite willing to give it his most cheerful support. But he besought the noble Lord to take care lest, in giving relief to the Dissenters on the one hand, he was not placing a burthen on the clergy of the Established Church on the other. Whilst the noble Lord consulted the religious and conscientious scruples of the Dissenters, let him not disregard or offend the scruples of the members of the Established Church. He would, when the fitting occasion came, be prepared to satisfy the House that this Bill interfered with the conscientious scruples of the members of the Church of England. He would, however, on the present occasion, deal with another part of the question, to which he felt that he could point out an objection so clear and distinct as to entitle him to the support of every hon. Gentleman in the House. He proposed to confine himself to the question whether the Bill now before the House did not afford increased facilities to clandestine marriages, and did not open a door in this respect to every man, whether Dissenter or member of the Church of England, and on a point, too, in which the interests of families were most seriously concerned. It was for the House to consider how far protection against clandestine marriages was afforded by this Bill. He should, he trusted, be able to show how perfectly inadequate this Bill was to prevent the performance of clandestine marriages amongst all classes of his Majesty's subjects, no matter to what sect they belonged. By the existing law of England there were certain guards against clandestine marriages. In the first instance there was the necessary publication of banns. There was the necessity that these banns should be published three times in the parish in which each of the parties must have lived for a limited period. This publication of course took place in the presence of many who must be acquainted
 1094 1095 John Russell: 1096
 Dr. Lushington  declared, he was not one inclined to oppose any provisions that could prevent clandestine marriages. He participated in the anxiety of the right hon. Gentleman, that every measure should be introduced into that House which should so far as possible protect the public against the occurrence of a mischief fraught with misery to families, and destructive of their domestic peace. Such were his feelings upon this subject; but he had long since come to this conclusion, that this was a matter of compromise. They could not invent a system that would be at the same time satisfactory, and prevent the recurrence of fraud. If they attempted to restrict that which ought to be free, which ought to be easy to every one of his Majesty's subjects, and, so far as was consistent, in which there should be a freedom and facility for forming the contract, they could not do that, and have every safeguard that might be desired. The right hon. Gentleman had declared, that there were safeguards under the present law, and compared them with the provisions of this Bill; and the conclusion to which the right hon. Gentleman had come was, that instead of this Bill giving securities, it fell far short of the securities at present existing. He was under the necessity of differing in opinion with the right hon. Gentleman. Under the existing state of the law the door was thrown open to clandestine marriages, and a person had only to desire a clandestine marriage, and nothing was more easily effected. The very statute which prescribed all the conditions upon which the right hon. Gentleman relied, contained a clause declaring, that if you disobey its provisions, still the marriage is equally good and valid, it having once taken place. At the present hour the banns were to be published on three suc-
 1097 1098 Hon. Member 1099
 Sir Robert Inglis  was glad to see that the present discussion had been conducted throughout without the occurrence of any observations inconsistent with the importance of the subject; and he trusted that nothing would fall from him which could be construed as irrelevant to the matter before the House. He begged, however,  in limine, 1100
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that whilst he was perfectly ready to concur in any measure which seemed likely to give satisfactory relief to the conscientious scruples of Dissenters, and whilst he fully concurred in the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets as to the importance of guarding against imposition and clandestine marriages, at the same time he thought, that in giving relief to the conscientious scruples of Dissenters, the House should take especial care not to wound the feelings or offend the conscientious scruples of the members of the Church of England. He premised that it was proposed by the present Bill, speaking here apart from any consideration of the particular case of the Dissenters, to give the members of the Church of England, who, be it recollected, made no complaint of the present system of marriages, a new method of entering into the state of matrimony without the necessity for any religious ceremony. That was a provision which appeared to him perfectly unnecessary towards the main object of the Bill, namely, that of affording relief to the conscientious scruples of Dissenters. He should therefore give notice, that in the Committee on the Bill, he should call attention to that particular feature in its provisions, and take the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had candidly made the declaration of kindly disposition towards the Dissenters of England, and he in return begged to disclaim any intention on the
 1101
 Sir Robert Peel  asked whether the noble Lord had any objection to state what was intended in respect to the University of Durham?
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that that matter was as yet entirely open. There might be some difficulty in the present state of proceedings in settling it, as the Bishop of Durham was to take the see with certain regulations, and under certain restrictions, which were hereafter to be defined.
 Sir Robert Peel  ventured to express an earnest hope that his Majesty's Government, in whatever measures they might adopt, would fulfil the intentions of the late Bishop of Durham in respect to this subject.
 Mr. Jervis  hoped, that not one penny of the revenue of the see would be applied to the purposes of the University of Durham, unless the Dissenters of the north of England were equally admissible to it as the Members of the Established Church. It was the principle of all, or nearly all, the universities of Europe, that parties were admitted without distinction of religion, and he did not see why the same principle should not apply to this new university, the more particularly as the two universities of Oxford and Cambridge were closed to all but members of the Established Church. It was, he thought, monstrous in the present day to confine establishments for the dissemination of learning to one religious denomination only. He would appeal to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) below him, who had ever shown himself the friend of the Dissenters and of religious toleration, and put it to him whether he would sanction an exclusive establishment of this kind. He hoped that in this, or early in the next session, the noble Lord would be prepared with some measure by which Dissenters of the north, as well as members of the Estab-
 1102
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  differed wholly from the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed the House. He looked on the University of Durham as a splendid monument of the munificence of the late most estimable prelate, and believed it was well known that it was the intention of that right reverend Prelate that it should be for the clergy of the north. That intention would be altogether defeated if it were thrown open to Dissenters; and for his own part he would rather see the whole establishment fall to the ground;, than that it should be open to Dissenters. He regretted that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had not been prepared to give an answer to the right hon. Baronet, as to the intentions of Government with respect to this University. The intentions of the late right rev. Prelate with respect to the Durham University were notorious, and had received the sanction of Earl Grey. It was the wish of the right reverend Prelate that the income of three stalls in the cathedral of Durham should be reserved for the salaries of the warden and professors. Now, this sum he thought should be held in trust by the bishop for these purposes. With respect to the Bill before the House, he thought there were parts of it with which the inhabitants of the county and of the city which he had the honour to represent would be greatly dissatisfied. There was the abolition of local courts and other institutions which the late bishop had fostered with great care. He did not think that the administration of justice would be better or cheaper in consequence of those changes. On these accounts he was anxious that time should be given for the due consideration of the Bill before it went into Committee, for he feared the time would come when some of the proposed changes would be regretted by all classes in the country. He thought the income of the see was so much reduced in the Bill, that he did not hesitate to say, it would be found difficult to get persons to accept the see with such limited means. He also objected to the Bill, that in the application of the surplus revenue it made no provision for the spiritual wants of many parts of the county. All that the Bill proposed was, to plunder the see of a part of its revenues, to enrich other parts of the county, In conclusion, the hon.
 1103
 Lord John Russell  rose in consequence of the last remark of the hon. Gentleman concerning Earl Grey, and his wish that a University should be established in Durham. It was quite true that that noble Lord had expressed an anxious wish that there should be a University established in the north; and he (Lord John Russell) believed that there were two points on which the late Bishop of Durham and Lord Grey had differed, while they agreed in the expediency and propriety of appropriating a certain portion of the revenues of the chapter and see of Durham to the support of that University. The first related to the income of the stalls applied to the professorships, Lord Grey thinking—and in his opinion most judiciously—that the whole income of a stall would be much too large a salary with which to endow a simple professorship. The objection of the late Bishop to the proposition of Lord Grey might be deemed very natural and very just at the time at which it was made, the right reverend Prelate not liking, perhaps, as there was no general measure upon the subject, to break in upon the particular constitution of the establishment of Durham. There was another point to which allusion was necessary, in consequence of the feeling which Lord Grey had been said to have expressed of decided dissent from the opinion of the late lamented Prelate. The Bishop expressed his opinion that the emoluments of the University should be completely and entirely confined to the members of the Church of England. From that opinion Lord Grey did not dissent; but he expressed (as he had been lately informed) his strong and decided opinion that with respect to all honours, including under the term degrees, they ought to be open to
 1104
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, this University was established five years ago, out of the funds of the late Bishop of Durham, out of the revenue of the Church for the promotion of the Church Establishment, and it would be as unjust to divert that University to other objects than those contemplated by the founder as it would be to divest the funds of any noble Lord who had invested them in any foundation of any kind whatever. The founder had always a right to limit the appropriation. The Bill proposed to separate the spiritual from the temporal duties of the Bishop of Durham, and consequently to deprive that Prelate of much of the dignity which now attached to his office. Against this he begged leave to enter his protest. He did not think there were too many of what were technically speaking, called prizes in the Church; and, great as was the outcry against the large income attached to the bishopric of Durham, this he would confidently say, that no income, however large, could have been spent in a manner more consistent with the spirit of true Christianity or more calculated to promote the welfare of the community than the income of that see by the late Bishop. By little and little they sought to deprive the Church of England of its temporal dignities, but its spiritual character was fortunately beyond the reach of its assailants.
 Mr. Pease  said, that the Church Commission having reported so completely upon the state of the bishopric of Durham, and it being concluded that it was no longer for the interests of that bishopric, nor for the good of the Established Church, that so large a sum should remain in the hands of one individual, while there existed districts in the county in which the
 1105 1106
 Mr. Roebuck  thought it the greatest satire which could be pronounced on the Church, that the district of the country where the richest bishopric in England was situated, should contain, as it was stated, the most demoralised people. When the Church had in its possession large sums of money which were diverted from their proper objects, it was the duty of Parliament to interfere, for the purpose of compelling a just application of them.
 Mr. T. Gladstone  was desirous, before this Bill passed, to draw a declaration from
 1107
 Sir George Grey  said, that he had distinctly stated on moving for leave to bring-in this Bill, that it was not meant to convey any opinion by its proposal as to the difference which occurred between Lord Sligo and the Legislature of Jamaica; but that it was intended to declare, that a case of necessity was made out for the interference of the Imperial Parliament for the purpose of removing an admitted defect in the law, which seriously affected the apprenticed slaves, over whose interests Parliament was bound by every obligation to keep a careful watch.
 Mr. Hume  admitted that Parliament was bound to take care that the stipulations of that Act, which cost the country a sum of twenty millions, were complied with, but warned the House against unnecessarily interfering with those concerns for which the local legislature were prepared to legislate.
 The Attorney General  felt that the measure would be not merely a benefit to the Dissenters, but would be found to be equally a benefit to the members of the Church of England. With respect to registration at present, as selected to the members of the Church of England, it was exceedingly imperfect. There was no registration of deaths—they merely had a registration of burials. It was impossible, on this account, to find evidence of descent with any certainty beyond two generations, and the consequence was, that this uncertainty led to great litigation and expense. It was of the greatest importance to the members of the Church of England that there should be a general registration of deaths, births, and marriages. He contended, that a general registration would be a great benefit, and concurred fully in the suggestion offered by the right hon. Baronet to postpone the discussion to a future stage of the Bill.
 The Attorney General  was sure that the hon. Gentleman had not read the Bill. The Bill provided for a uniform system of births, marriages, and deaths, and included all classes of the community and all sects.
 Mr. Goulburn : if the Bill were to pass in its present shape, he would give it his utmost opposition. He would have no difficulty in satisfying the House that it would not answer the objects for which it was intended. However, he was ready to consider the Bill in Committee, and to endeavour to improve it as much as possible; but then he would feel it competent for him to enter into an argument whether the Bill, even in that state, was so unexceptionable in its provisions as that they should allow it to pass at all.
 Mr. Charles  Wood felt the greatest pleasure in stating that the account given by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Buckingham) was perfectly correct. In consequence of the inducements held out for promoting the voluntary enlistment of seamen, there never was a period when they entered he service so readily and so rapidly as within the last fortnight. He had been informed that the fishermen and boatmen who used formerly to run away through fear of impressment, now cheerfully and willingly came forward to enter.
 Sir George Clerk , while he admitted Captain Symonds's merits, objected to the system of making a naval officer surveyor of the navy. The surveyor of the navy ought to be well instructed in, and conversant with, naval architecture.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he would take that opportunity of alluding to the two convict vessels, the George the Third and the Neva, which had recently been wrecked, and of the dreadful loss of life by which the wreck of each had been attended. Looking at the length of the voyage, and the number of human lives at stake, it was highly necessary that none but vessels of the most sea-worthy class should be employed on this service. He thought it would be highly satisfactory to the House and to the country, if the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. C. Wood) would take this opportunity of stating what had been the result of the inquiries made by the Government as to the loss of the two vessels he had named, and also whether there had been any change introduced either into the mode of surveying vessels previous to their being taken up for this service, or in the rate that, was paid for them when they were so taken up—whether in fact any such change had been adopted as could lead to the supposition that a better class of vessels would for the future be employed.
 Mr. Chapman  said, the loss of the vessel in question had not so much to do with the character of the vessel as with the temerity of the commander in putting it through this difficult strait at night.
 Sir G. Clerk  hoped, that in future none but A. 1 vessels would be employed. As this was the last vote, he could not but compliment the hon. Secretary on the clearness with which the estimates had
 1114
 Lord John Russell  said, it was his most anxious wish to extend the principle of the Bill now under discussion to Ireland. But, in the first instance, he thought it was desirable to pause, in order to see how the
 1092
 Lord John Russell  thought it would be better to allow the Bill to go into Committee, and take the discussion on the third reading.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the intention of the Bill was to establish a uniform registration in the first place of births and deaths, and next of baptisms and marriages. With respect to baptisms and burials performed by the ministers of the Church of England, they would keep their own registers as before, and that registration would be equally valid, as it had always been in courts of law. With respect to births and marriages, there would be a civil and general registry; and whether the entries should be by the minister of a Dissenting sect, or whether according to the form of a civil contract, all would be merged in one registry, which would be a national registry. With respect to parishes, they would have, as at present, their own separate registry for marriages performed in them. Therefore, as he had already explained, these would answer the purpose of a national registry, at the same time that he would not interfere with the registry as at present carried on. He trusted he had now given an answer to the objections taken against this Bill, with respect to its national principle, and with respect to the objection of those dissenting from the Established Church. The Bill would, in the first place, establish a national registry, which would ascertain facts not now ascertained respecting descent; and, secondly, it would enable Dissenters from the Established Church, who did not agree in the ceremonies of that Church, to have a registry without resorting to means for that purpose, to which they conscientiously objected.
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that the law, with respect to registrations of baptisms and burials, would be the same as before; the registration of marriages would undergo a slight modification.
 Lord John Russell  said, that before he moved the order of the day, as his hon. friend the Member for Lancaster had said that he would persevere in the motion of which he had given notice, he wished to state what was the position in which he stood, and in which the hon. Member stood, respecting this question. It was his intention, as he had stated before Easter, to proceed on this day with the second reading of the Bills for the registration of births and the celebration of marriages. He had moved for leave to bring in these Bills early in the month of February, and that on the registration of births had been ordered to be printed on the 17th of February. They were Bills on the subject of which great interest was excited among the Dissenters, and the Government had been often asked, for several years past, to interfere and remedy the grievances they were intended to remove. In the course of last year he had been very much pressed by those representing the Dissenting body to bring forward measures for their relief; but on his representing the impossibility of passing them through the House in the
 1084 1085
 Mr. Hawes  said, if he understood what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet and the noble Lord, the Bill did not provide for a uniform system of registration, but the general registration was to be confined to a general and uniform registration of births.
 Mr. Hawes  expressed himself satisfied with the explanation.
 Mr. Charles Wood  admitted, that the dock-yard wrights were a most exemplary body of men, but when they received nearly 3 l. s. 1109
 Mr. Charles Wood  defended the vote. All the information was given in the estimate which could be useful to the House, and he had explained, on introducing the estimates, that this sum was demanded on the responsibility of the Government. Timber was not purchased as the hon. Member said privately, it was sometimes bought by contract and sometimes by private bargain as circumstances dictated; and he was ready to maintain that no more than the fair market price had been paid for timber. With respect to Captain Symonds, he had only to say that persons who, without the smallest disrespect to the hon. Member were by profession far more competent to form an opinion on the subject, had expressed themselves in terms of high commendation upon the subject of his experiments in naval architecture. The hon. Member complained of the waste of stores by Captain Symonds's experiments; the fact was, that the quantity of timber required each year had been gradually diminishing from 21,000 loads in 1829, to 9,000 loads in 1834; yet there were more ships at sea in 1834 and more building than in 1829. He must deny too that Captain Symonds's ships were altered either during the building or after they were built. All Captain Symonds's ships had been finished according to the designs first laid down, and almost all other ships were altered in the progress of constructing them. He should be ready to meet the hon. Member when he made any direct charges; at present the hon. Member only made insinuations.
 Mr. Charles Wood  read a testimonial of the commander's fitness, from which it appeared that he had had a previous experience of the navigation of the seas in which the vessel was wrecked, and that he had not been chosen to the command of the vessel without having had the highest character from naval officers.
 Mr. Charles Wood  replied, that the most minute inquiries had been made into the circumstances attending the wreck of the vessels to which his right hon. Friend had referred; and if a wish to that effect were expressed, he should be willing and happy to place the whole of the information which had been obtained on the subject before the House. With respect to the mode of taking up convict ships, he begged to state, that since the year 1833, such alterations had been made as necessarily secured the employment of a better, more comfortable, and more sea-worthy class of vessels than those formerly engaged in this service. Before any vessel was taken up in any port, it was surveyed, and must be favourably reported of by the resident agent of the Government, assisted by a naval officer and an intelligent shipwright. In the case of the George the Third, the parties who surveyed her and upon whose approval she was taken up, declared that when she left Deptford she was in every respect, a fit and proper vessel for the purpose for which she was to be employed, and that her subsequent loss could not in any way be ascribed to her want of seaworthiness. The result of the inquiries which had been made upon the subject
 1112
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that though the George the Third and the Neva were old vessels, they happened to be good ones for the service they were engaged in; but it was the system of taking up and inspecting vessels that was so defective. For instance, the Anne was reported when taken up by the Government inspectors, as fit for the service; but the economical system they were restricted to, did not enable them to look deep enough, and it was only afterwards, when an accident obliged the Anne to undergo a slight repair for the fitting of a new fore-foot, that it was discovered that her principal timbers were in such an unsound state that if sent to sea in the state the inspectors had pronounced her fit for service she must have certainly foundered in the first gale. To attain the results they desired, Government must establish a more liberal rate of allowance for inspection, and then only superior vessels would be taken up, for which, of course, they must pay a higher rate of freight. Thus only could they obtain good vessels for such a service.
 Mr. George F. Young  hoped, that this discussion would at least have one good effect, in showing to the Government that it would, in future, be better to have testimonials to the fitness of commanders and examination of the soundness of vessels before hiring them to perform this most important service, rather than to expose themselves to those suspicions, which, however unfounded they might be, were nevertheless excited when those unfortunate occurrences took place.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought this vote ought to be accompanied by detailed statements of what the money was wanted for. He must complain too of the manner in which the timber store for the navy was obtained. Instead of being procured by public contract, it was made the subject of private arrangement with parties possessing influence with the Admiralty. If it were left to public competition, a great saving would result. The public market also would be less liable to fluctuations, and the public and individuals would both be benefited by open competition. He objected also to the vote because he believed there was no responsibility that the stores would be properly applied. He must complain too of the lavish expenditure of stores, occasioned by the experiments in naval architecture now being made by Captain Symonds. He had a great respect for that officer, but he thought that gentlemen brought up to the business of ship-building, were more likely to build ships well, than a naval officer with whom every vessel he constructed was an experiment. Such a proceeding was extravagant and disastrous. Captain Symonds claimed to have discovered a new principle of shipbuilding. For his part he did not believe in its efficacy, but all the old ships would be pulled to pieces to build new ships on Captain Symonds's plan. He could have no confidence in estimates prepared under such auspices, particularly as several of Captain Symonds's ships had been altered while building, and altered after they had been built. He repeated that he objected to the whole sum being proposed in a lump. He thought that when money to such an amount was called for, details should be given, and he was afraid that those who had the management of this department were inadequate to the task.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, that if the hon. Member had made out a case such as he had stated on the evening before—a case where a commanding officer had, for the purpose of evading the leniency of the recent amelioration in military punishments, measured out the time to such an extent as to prolong the suffering of the individual punished, he (Sir Henry Hardinge) should certainly think it was a case calling for investigation before the military authorities; and he had expressed his opinion of such a case as strongly as any other hon. Member. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that the hon. Member was fully justified for the assertions he had made, and at the same time he begged leave to say, that if this were a case where any friend of his was concerned, notwithstanding fifteen years had elapsed since the period, not another hour should pass over without his demanding an investigation. He ought to say, though he did not himself personally know Colonel Arthur, nor had any occasion to know him, that that officer bore a very high reputation, and he was satisfied, that as soon as he heard of the charge now made against him, he would be anxious to meet it by a court of inquiry, or some other means, if the law prevented him from doing so by a Court-martial. These were his sentiments, and as the matter could not rest here, he should not make any further observations.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that he was anxious to receive from the Under-Secretary for the Admiralty some information on a subject of considerable interest. It was no doubt in the recollection of the House, that those who supported the Bill which passed last Session for the encouragement of voluntary enlistment of seamen, dwelt strongly on the probability of
 1108
 Mr. Hume  said, that the right hon. Baronet opposite had said, that if any friend of his were concerned in it, he should be most anxious that the charge should be inquired into. Now, he (Mr. Hume) did not consider that the matter should be left to the friends of any individual. He thought that it was the duty of the public officers of Government not to pass it over.
 Mr. Hume  said, that after this testimonial, there could be no further doubt as to the previous fitness of the commander; but it must still be remembered by the Admiralty that there was such a thing as examination. He still maintained, that no vessel ought to be hired for such a purpose as this, unless her soundness had been previously ascertained by competent surveyors.
 Mr. Hume  said, that taking the statement as true, that the Neva was twenty years old, the 'Admiralty had certainly failed to justify the manner in which she had been hired.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, he should have offered no opposition to the noble Lord's request had he not felt himself compelled, by the present state of the question, to persevere in his motion. No doubt there had already been two discussions on the subject in the course of the last two months, but its aspect had, in the interval which had since elapsed, materially changed for the worse; and every day new circumstances were occurring to render it more necessary that the attention of Government should be called to the question, in order duly to impress them with the serious responsibility which devolved upon them in consequence of the events which unfortunately were still taking place in the East of Europe. Petitions were now waiting to be presented from every individual of character in this country connected with the trade of Turkey, praying for that very discussion of which he was the humble advocate. On the two former occasions no definite or practical conclusion had been come to from which any benefit could arise; whereas it would be his endeavour to bring home to the Government the state of jeopardy in which our foreign relations stood, and practically fix them with the responsibility of what is new occurring in the East. But if it should appear to be
 1086
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  begged leave to say, after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, that the motion he had given, arose from the answers he had received to three questions put to the noble Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, every one of which had been most unsatisfactory, both with reference to Cracow, and the still more important events which had recently occurred, throwing obstructions in the way of British commerce in the Black Sea. In giving way to the noble Lord upon the present occasion, he trusted one day next week would be given him for bringing forward this motion, and he pledged himself to shape his notice so as to meet the views of the right hon. Baronet opposite.
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  postponed his motion.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  had thought that this was a case totally different from that now stated to the House, for he had expected that the serious complaint of the hon. Member would have referred to a fact committed subsequently to the period at which the order restricting the number of lashes to be inflicted had been issued. He considered, that this case ought to have been made the subject of investigation immediately after the time when it occurred. He, for one, would never advise that any officer should be dismissed without having been heard in his defence. It was most extraordinary that, amidst all the complaints made against Colonel Arthur for so many years—and there was hardly one of these which had not been raked up to be brought before the House—this was the first occasion on which the present case had ever been mentioned. It was singular that this accusation should never have become the subject of a practical inquiry. He had expected that the charge brought by the hon. Member would
 1082
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  begged to ask the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) whether it was true that 250 of the Polish refugees had been given up to Russia? He would also take the opportunity of saying he had heard, that in Birmingham an order was given, two or three months ago, for 800 large guns, professedly for the Turkish Government; they were to carry balls of from sixty pounds to two hundred and sixty pounds each. There was a very prevalent opinion that those guns were intended for the Dardanelles. He wished to ask the noble Lord, whether the Government had an eye to that circumstance—whether they had given their consent that these terrible engines of destruction should be allowed to proceed from this country to complete the fortifications of the Dardanelles? He hoped the Government were not asleep on this occasion; the Russians, he believed, were wide awake.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  rose, as the Order of the Day was about to be moved, and said, that before the House went into public business, he hoped for a few minutes' indulgence whilst he made a statement important to himself, and of some consequence also to the military profession, which it was thought by some he had most unjustly attacked by casting upon it an unmerited stigma. During the debate last night on the Mutiny Bill, he had called the attention of the Secretary at War to circumstances of which he thought the noble Lord was not apprised, and which had frequently occurred in the army in the punishment of soldiers. On referring to the newspapers of this morning, he found that they all nearly concurred in the representation of what he had said, but that there might be no mistake as to the statement upon which he was ready to stand, he had selected the report in one
 1079 "The number of lashes was fixed by a general order from the Horse Guards, but perhaps the noble Lord did not know that the quantity did not in all cases constitute the torture of the punishment, and that it was compounded not alone of the number of lashes, but of the mode and of the time in which they were inflicted. He (Mr. Duncombe) had been informed that there were commanding officers in the service who, considering on some occasions the sentence of general Courts-martial too lenient, had evaded them by ordering the fifty lashes (he would suppose that number to be the punishment awarded) to be inflicted in minute or half- minute time, [ cries of "name," and "no, no." 1080 "Government-house, Belize, Feb. 15, 1820. "SIR—A crime having been sent in against gunner Ingram, of the detachment Royal Artillery, I have also required him to be brought before the Court of which you are president, and as this most incorrigible bad soldier has several times been placed in solitary confinement without any good effect, the same observations which I made to you with respect to the other prisoner will apply to him, provided he is found guilty to the extent of the crime with which he is charged.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your most obedient, humble servant, "GEORGE ARTHUR, Lieut.-Col. Commandant. "To Major Bradley, President of the Court-martial, &c." 1081
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : the declaration made by his noble Friend directly negatived the proposition laid down by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford. His noble Friend stated, that he should be prepared on a future occasion, when he had seen the working of the present Bill, to produce a measure applying the principle of it to Ireland, for the purpose of forming a general registration for that country. That was the best answer that could be given to the observations of the hon. Baronet. The hon. Member opposite (Mr. O'Brien) must be aware that, in forming a principle of registration for Ireland, the machinery by which it must be carried into effect must be of a different character from that established for England. The present Bill was an experiment, and the method of its working must be known before a system of machinery for Ireland could be adopted. He was perfectly free to admit, that if an improved system of registration was wanted in this country, it was still more wanted for Ireland. He could assure the hon. Member that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), in common with his noble Friend, was most anxious that a Bill should be brought in to extend the principle of registration contemplated by this Bill to Ireland.
 Mr. Thornely  had been credibly informed that the Neva was twenty years old. If so, the Admiralty were certainly not justified in hiring such a vessel without a strict examination into her soundness. He, however, was of opinion, that no vessel ought to be employed for so important a purpose as the conveyance of hundreds of human beings if her age exceeded eight or ten years.
 Mr. Wakley  also thought the explanation offered by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wood very unsatisfactory. Nor was there any intimation that the system would be abandoned.
 Mr. Wakley  could not agree with the hon. Baronet in thinking that these estimates deserved credit for so much clearness; and he should next Session, divide the House upon every estimate unless they were much more clear and explanatory.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that he had once been a voyage to the East Indies, and therefore, knew something about the sea and about ships, and he would himself be glad to know what sort of a commander he would be who would have the temerity to run among rocks, with double-reefed topsails, at nine miles an hour.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien : before the noble Lord named the day for the Committee on the Bill, he was anxious to ask him whether or not he would give his assurance that, at a future period, a Bill should be brought in extending the principle of the present measure to Ireland. He looked at this question, not as one which related to sects, but as one which proposed to carry into effect a great national improvement. The evils which the proposed Bill intended to remedy were much greater in Ireland than in England, because the registration in Ireland was in an extremely defective state. The noble Lord had stated on a former occasion, that the Roman Catholic clergy objected to the adoption of a similar measure for Ireland; but he (Mr. O'Brien) could not understand what their reasons were for making such objection. He could not believe that such was the fact. No person was prepared to treat the opinions of the Roman Catholic clergy with more respect than he was; but if such objections did really exist, he thought the House ought to be made acquainted with the nature of them. It was his intention to move, as an instruction to the Committee, to consider the propriety of extending the principle of the Bill to Ireland, with a view of taking the sense of the House on the question; but he would not do so if the noble Lord would say, that in the ensuing Session—he knew it would be impossible to do so in the present—that he would bring in a Bill to extend the principle laid down in this Bill to Ireland.
 Admiral Adam  confirmed all that his hon. Friend, the Secretary of the Admiralty had said, with respect to Captain Symonds's character and his merit as a ship-builder.
 Admiral Adam  praised the construction of Captain Symonds's ships; and, adverting to the Barham and the Vernon, observed, that although the Barham did much better than he expected, the Vernon greatly exceeded her in stability.
 Sir E. Codrington  rose to call the attention of the House to the inadequate wages received by the workmen in the dockyards. They had been praised by the Admiralty, but their wages had been reduced from 2 l. s. l. s. d.
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  wished that those hon. Gentlemen who seemed to know so much of nautical affairs would explain to the House how any vessel, be she of whatever class, could run among rocks at nine miles an hour with double-reefed topsails without going to pieces.
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  said, that from the rock not having been properly laid down in the chart, the Captain had run upon the rock in ignorance.
 Sir George Grey  was sure, from what he knew of Colonel Arthur, that as soon as he heard of the charge brought against him, he would anxiously desire that it should be thoroughly investigated.
 Sir Robert Inglis , as he understood the object of the Bill, considered, that it was to relieve the Dissenters from some grievances of which they complained. He wished that the Bill had been limited to that object, and did not interfere with the rights, and let him add the duties, of the ministers of the Established Church. The Bill interfered materially with both, and he wished that the noble Lord would limit the Bill to such an extent as would meet the
 1089
 Sir Robert Inglis : supposing that the clergy of the Church of England should object to this Bill, would the noble Lord refrain from passing it, on the same principle that he declined to bring in a Bill for Ireland in consequence of the opposition which was made to it by the Roman Catholic Priests in Ireland? [" No, no
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that his observations were made under the impression that the Bill left the members of the Church of England in the same state in which they were with respect to registration at present. They were perfectly satisfied with that, and he saw no reason to alter or interfere with it. If he could understand that the Bill would place the members of
 1090
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the operation of the measure depended entirely on the machinery which they should make use of. That was so much a matter of detail, that he thought it would be better to defer any general consideration of the measure altogether, until they had first done all in their power to render the measure as perfect as possible. It would be much better to urge any objections he entertained to the details when the Bill was in Committee. Under these considerations, as he did not object to the principle of the Bill, he had no objection to allow it to go into Committee, though it contained many provisions which called for alteration and amendment.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that on a former evening he had put a question to the noble Lord respecting this Bill. He believed that the effect of the Bill would be, that, with respect to baptisms, marriages,
 1088
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the hon. Gentleman seemed to invite an observation on the position in which he found himself. It appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman had himself furnished a most conclusive reason why he should adopt the course recommended by the noble Lord. In reply to the noble Lord's observation, that the question had already undergone discussion on two recent occasions, the hon. Gentleman said, that those discussions led to no practical result, and he proposed that the present discussion should lead to such a result. If that was the object of the hon. Gentleman, he should say, let them have fair notice of the motion. Let the hon. Gentleman give notice that he intended to call the attention of the House to the aggressions of Russia, but do not let him invite them to come to a resolution, and then say that he meant to follow it up by a practical result for which they were not prepared. That might involve the House in a very serious difficulty. If the hon. Gentleman wished that the discussion should be decisive, that it should be of a very different character from the two preceding discussions, and that it should end in some practical issue—if he desired to call for the determination of the House with regard to the relations of this country with Russia, then let him give at least two or three days' notice of the precise motion he intended to bring under the consideration of the House. He was glad to hear the noble Lord protest against the practice of bringing forward questions of foreign policy on motions for proceeding to the orders of the day. If Gentlemen who were in the habit of supporting the Government, took that
 1087
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  perfectly agreed with the right hon. Baronet. He considered that the hon. Member for Finsbury had been fully borne out in what he had advanced in the debate of the preceding night.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  rose to move the amendment of which he had given notice. It was far from his intention, he said, to depreciate the measure of Parliamentary Reform, or to detract from the debt of gratitude due to its framers and supporters; but there were few among those framers and supporters who thought
 1169 
 
 Persons. 
 The number in towns and boroughs in England, already sending Members, will be increased by 110,000 
 The electors of new towns (in England) sending Members, one each 50,000 
 Electors in London who will now obtain the right of voting 95,000 
 Increase of electors in Scotland 60,000 
 In Ireland, perhaps 40,000 1170 
 
 Increase in the counties of England (at least) 100,000 * * † Ibid. p. 1063. 1171
 The Attorney-General  felt bound to oppose the amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He would do so very briefly, as he considered it of importance that the Bill before the House should get through the Committee with as little delay as possible. The proper course for the hon. Member to take would be to bring in a Bill to remedy those clauses he complained of; but he (the Attorney-General) should certainly give him his opposition. The motion of the hon. Member went to the extent that there should be no payment of rates, but if they did this, what test would they have of the respectability of the elector? The present franchise was the most ancient franchise known to the Constitution. The payment of scot and lot was the ancient test by which the competency of the party claiming to vote was determined. In the same way, the payment of rates and taxes was held to be an evidence of the competency of the par-
 1172
 Mr. Warburton  doubted if the present was the most proper time for such a motion, but still he should support it. He thought it was a notorious fact that the old system of scot and lot led to continual acts of bribery.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had himself lost his vote last year, and in St. James's parish alone upwards of 500 voters had been disfranchised by the working of the registration system. He hoped the franchise would be extended to every householder, and he was even prepared to go farther, if public opinion was prepared to go with him. He called on the noble Lord to redeem his pledge of adding 95,000 to the constituency of the metropolis, now that he found the deficiency to arise from the difficulty of the qualification.
 The Attorney General  was of opinion that the services of the high constables in this respect should be retained as a part of the Bill. In many instances, the overseers were interested parties. By the clause, the Clerk of the Peace was directed to issue his warrant to the high constable, with the necessary forms, &c. This was in strict conformity with the Jury Bill of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Robert Peel). That Bill had been found to work exceedingly well, and on the principle contained in that Bill the present clause was framed.
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, if these duties were to be imposed on the high constable, it would be just that they should be properly remunerated for their services. If such were not the case,
 1175
 Mr. Hume  observed, that when the former Bill was before a Committee up stairs, it was in the first instance decided that the overseers should be the persons. But in consequence of some representations made by hon. Members, that in the north of England the high constables were a superior class of persons to the overseers, he (Mr. Hume) was induced to change his opinion. Since that period, however, he had again changed his opinion, and he was not ashamed to confess it; and in consequence of information he had received, he was therefore induced to revert to the overseers, and his reason was this, because the high constables were not ail of the same class of persons throughout the country, some being paid, and some not, and he was therefore now disposed to think they would not do the duty as well as the overseers. In a case of doubt and difficulty, he thought it was best to go back to the overseers, rather than to appoint the high constables to perform this duty, which might lead to increased trouble and delay.
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought, that if the House saw reason to make an alteration, it was incumbent upon them to adopt a sensible one. When they were about to appoint officers to discharge a particular duty, they were bound to take care that such appointments should be proper and consistent.
 The Attorney General  said, that the reason why it would be improper to employ these persons was, that it would give them too much to do. The high constables of England and Wales, though not always very bright men, were quite competent to the duties imposed upon them by this Bill, and they were men who were well known to the Clerks of the Peace, and could easily communicate with them. The amendment which had been suggested by the hon. Member for Hastings would, if carried into practical effect, in his opinion, make matters worse than before. He thought that, upon the whole, the high constables would be found to be less incompetent than the overseers to this particular duty.
 Mr. Mackinnon  thought it quite inexpedient to transfer the duties of the overseer to the high constable; and it was to be remembered that the regulation proposed, if carried, would impose great additional
 1176
 The Solicitor General  thought, that the machinery of the Bill, as it then stood, was one which was perfectly well known to the Constitution, and there was no probability that it would not work well.
 Colonel Parry  preferred the duty being performed by the overseer, because he was a more responsible person than the high constable, though the latter was undoubtedly the more ancient office. He should prefer all communications being made direct from the Clerks of the Peace to the overseers.
 Mr. Grote  said, that, from what had fallen from hon. Gentlemen in the course of this discussion, it appeared to be quite clear that there was a great lack of administrative talent throughout the country. He thought that by the amended clause, or by the clause as it stood, they would introduce an unnecessary complexity of offices without obtaining a beneficial result, by reason of the inefficiency of the agents to be employed. Upon the whole, he thought the wiser mode of proceeding would be to employ a paid officer.
 The Attorney General  objected to such officer being appointed, because whatever Government should be in power, they would be supposed to appoint their own officers, and they would always be liable to the charge of partiality in the selection of their individuals.
 Mr. Warburton  objected to the number of Revising Courts, and to the circumstance of all the revisions being fixed to take place on the same day. If they were fixed for different periods, twelve Courts would be sufficient to dispose of all the business.
 The Attorney General  defended the clause as it stood, as providing the most efficient means of accomplishing the object.
 Lord Granville Somerset  complained of the contradictory decisions of the Revising Barristers, and suggested the practicability of establishing a Court of Appeal, if not to try questions of fact, at least to determine the construction of the Act. He moved, as an amendment, that the Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench and the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, together with the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, should, previous to the Summer Circuit, appoint persons for the duty, who should not be of less than five years' standing at the Bar.
 Lord John Russell  admitted, that it might be desirable to have Gentlemen of more experience and fewer in number. By vesting the power in the Judges, as, at present, precaution was taken against placing it where the possession of any political power might interfere with its exercise; but it was impossible that there should not be complaints against this or that appointment, and he did not think the objections would be removed by the proposition of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  referred to a Report which had obtained circulation, that Ministers intended to extend the benefit of the Corporation Act to certain towns not included in the measure of last Session. It would be a matter of public convenience if the noble Lord would state whether such a report was well founded.
 Lord John Russell  would explain what was the measure under the consideration of Government. It was not a measure for the purpose of obliging towns which at present had not Corporations to accept them, but it had occurred to Ministers to consider whether, with reference to the clause of the Bill of last Session, which enabled towns to have Corporations, it might not be proper to give facilities for making those Corporations which might be granted on application more effectual than they otherwise would be. A measure of that sort was contemplated, and he hoped soon to give notice of the time when it would be brought forward.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the Report had been under the consideration of Government, and they certainly had found in it a great variety of important matters; at the same time he must add, that the suggestions in it were not of that simple and single nature as to allow them to be adopted without the caution which was recommended by the Commissioners themselves. He would, therefore, at once state it to be the opinion of Government that it was not expedient in the present Session to bring in a series of measures comprising all the objects of the Report. Out of that opinion a second question arose—whether it were advisable, not undertaking the entire subject, to bring in any particular and insulated measure founded on parts of the Report? He apprehended that there might be great difficulty in that course, for a special measure might either invite too much discussion or too peremptorily close it on other parts of the document. He was not, however, prepared to say, that any final decision had yet been adopted, or that there might not be parts of the Report which ought to be taken into consideration with a view to some practical measure in the present Session; but as to a series of measures, he was enabled to inform the hon. Member that it was the opinion of Government that it would not be advisable to undertake them this Session. He could not conclude without adding, that the Report was not only of extreme value, but that the subject of it was of a nature to render it absolutely necessary that some measures should be brought forward and adopted. It would be anxiously con-
 1168
 Mr. Richards  expressed his concurrence in what had fallen from the noble Lord, and added, that if nothing were done next Session, he would introduce a Bill upon the subject.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, respecting the Report of the Commissioners on the State of the Poor of Ireland. He had himself introduced a Bill for the relief of the poor of Ireland, and whether he should or should not move to-morrow that it be read a second time, would depend upon the answer of the noble Lord. The Report contained the best digested and most important recommendations, and he wished to know whether it was the intention of Ministers to introduce this Session a series of measures founded upon it?
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  supported the amendment, and said, that if they were to allow the proprietors of this company, whose responsibility was only limited, to
 1187 l.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that they would not be acting justly, if they allowed one Steam Company to possess advantages which were denied to others. He did not see why this company should have privileges which were not extended to all others, and, therefore, he should vote for the amendment.
 The Attorney General  expressed himself hostile to the Bill, and said, that his constituents were strongly opposed to it. They thought that this company should only be allowed to stand forward in the terms of fair competition, and as the Scotch steam companies were liable to the whole extent of their properties, so ought this company to be. If, however, it were necessary to make a distinction between the parties, why let them at once propose one general law upon the subject, by which all such companies should be placed upon an equal footing, or let the promoters of this Bill confine themselves to the navigation of the river which they intended to improve, by an outlay of then capital. He hoped the Government, in the exercise of their authority, would never consent to give an advantage to one company over another, more espe-
 1188
 Mr. O'Connell  conceived that he had great reason to complain of the hon. Member for Belfast, for entering into a discussion of the details of the Bill, which were proper matters only to be introduced in Committee. It was generally admitted that the principle of the Bill was good, as it contemplated the improvement of Ireland, on which it had already conferred numerous benefits; and if what they asked the House was granted, which was nothing more than permission to raise money among themselves, they would extend their usefulness and confer further benefits on that country. Objection had been taken to this measure, in consequence of the shareholders being freed from all responsibility, beyond the amount of their shares. For this, however, there were precedents, as two Bills, conferring similar exemptions, had passed that House within a short time, but they were for London; and it is only now when this company, which had worked admirably for the interest of Ireland, had come forward that the grievance was discovered, and the evils that it would entail had become apparent. It had also been urged that one general law should be promulgated, by which to regulate the liabilities of companies. He had no objection to such a law; but the best way of effecting it would be, to grant the powers claimed in the present Bill; and then let some half-a-dozen powerful and wealthy companies co-operate in applying for a measure of this description. He hoped the subject would be maturely deliberated on before hon. Members came to a determination of opposing it; and that they would bear in their recollections that by defeating it they would be retarding improvement in a country where there was little capital and much room for the ex- tension of it. But if they had made up their minds on the subject, he trusted their opposition would not prove successful.
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, he should op- pose this Bill on public grounds. The establishment of such companies as this, with exclusive and peculiar privileges, instead of encouraging the employment of capital, actually prevented it from being embarked. Why was it, that there was only one steam-packet company in
 1189
 Lord Clements  said, that the House should bear in recollection that this company was the first to establish a steam conveyance between Dublin and Liverpool, and also with the different parts of Ireland which enabled the inhabitants of remote districts to send their agricultural produce to Dublin for shipment to England. These were two important considerations, which should not be overlooked, when the parties only required the power of raising and expending their own money. It was urged that they should not be allowed this privilege, and that they had capital sufficient for all their purposes. This he denied; and the result of a refusal would be to give all the advantages to the Scotch steam-packet companies, who had larger capitals than that of the Dublin company. He (Lord Clements) on his part, would be happy to see the Scotch companies competing with the Irish, and to have the non-liability extended to them. It would have rather an awkward appearance for people not to be permitted to subscribe their own capital to their own purposes,
 1190
 Mr. William Roche  said, he knew not any public company which could present itself before Parliament and stand the test of the minutest scrutiny more fearlessly, or rather with more perfect confidence, than the Dublin Steam-packet Company, pointing as it could to the most satisfactory performance of every duty and of every responsibility that devolved upon it as well as to the more than ample realization of every public benefit expected from it. It associated at a time when none else were disposed to take up, he might say, the neglected cause of the Shannon, that noblest river of our home empire. It commenced its proceedings with moderation, it advanced with caution, and progressed with the most extraordinary advantages to the community and the revenue multiplying in the very short space of three years, the amount of tolls payable by it—by  twelve fold, 1191
 Mr. Wallace  was not disposed to detain the House for any length of time, as he had already declared on what principle he was induced to record his opposition to the Bill. No doubt it was important to the people of Ireland, that the river Shannon should be improved; but money could be obtained for that purpose, without granting the power to this company of raising such an addition to their large capital, on such a limited responsibility as the shares of individuals. The evidence which he held in his hand, delivered before the Commissioners of Post-office Inquiry, stated, that the authorities of that department had sanctioned this company in building additional steamers for the purpose of contracting with them for conveying the mails; and that in such expectation a sum of 170,000 l. l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would take the liberty of saying a few words on this Bill, as he did not like, in giving his support to the third reading, that it should be supposed he did so on the principle of sustaining the interests of Ireland against those of Scotland, or any part of the country against another. He distinctly denied that it was the duly of the Government to interfere with subjects of this kind, with reference to their respective or relative merits. These were matters for the consideration of a committee, and for that House, upon which every hon. Member was at liberty to record his individual
 1192 1193
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  had presented a petition from his constituents against the Bill; but it was not alone on the petition that he offered it his opposition, but on the general principles so ably stated by the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him. He was quite sure, that the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade would give satisfaction to all parties. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in supporting the Bill, did not reflect on the great injustice to Scotland, to have her steam companies competing with unlimited responsibilities, against Irish companies with limited responsibility.
 Mr. Labouchere  was asked whether the Post-office department had given any assurance, or held out any expectations to this company of the contract for conveying his Majesty's mails; but he could assure the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Wallace) and the House, that no such expectations were held out or assurances given. The evidence on which the charge rested was rather vague, and did not go the length of imputing such an intention on the part of the Post-office; but if the
 1194
 Dr. Bowring  declared, that in his opinion nothing could be more discreditable to the mercantile community than the law which made the private property of individual shareholders responsible. He could not agree with his right hon. Friend, the Member for Dundee (Sir H. Parnell), as to the injurious tendency of a limited responsibility. He believed, on the contrary, that the time would soon arrive when the principle of a limited responsibility would be recognised as the most judicious one. However, he would not consent that one company, with a limited responsibility, should have the opportunity of competing with another of unlimited responsibility, and he would therefore oppose the motion for a third reading.
 Lord Morpeth  supported the Bill. The objections which were raised to the principle of the Bill should have been urged in Committee, and not after it had reached to such an advanced stage. He was fully aware of the advantages which would be derived to Ireland from the outlay of capital, and the judicious exertions of this company. Under these circumstances he would support the measure to the extent of his power, and he hoped it would receive the favourable consideration of the House and pass into a law.
 Lord Francis Egerton  supported the Bill, and referred to the services already rendered by the company.
 Lord George Lennox  opposed the motion. He begged to submit the point to the Speaker. The resolution of the House was, that all Members for boroughs through which the line passed might sit on the Committee, but, in fact, the new undertaking, under Sir John Rennie, ended at Croydon, and there joined the Croydon
 1195
 The Speaker  thought that the Railway from Croydon to London formed part of the whole line contemplated by Sir John Ronnie, consequently that Mr. Barnard was  prima facie
 Sir Charles Burrel  resisted the claim, as the new line of Sir John Rennie came no farther than Croydon; his line was, in fact, not from Brighton to London, but Brighton to Croydon
 The Speaker  said his original impression was, that the hon. Member had a right to i claim to be of the Committee; but, in consequence of the explanations that had since been given, he was induced to change that opinion, and he now thought the hon. Member, according to the orders of the House, could not substantiate that claim.—Debate adjourned.
 Mr. Goulburn.  —Am I to understand that the double sheet is to pay double duty?
 Mr. Scarlett  said, he would withdraw it, with the leave of the House, as the object of his motion had been answered, and he felt sure that every attention would be paid to the business in the Foreign Office, when the Consular correspondence should be transferred to it.—Motion withdrawn.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that since he had given notice of a motion to call the attention of the House to that part of the Report of the Committee upon the Consular establishments, recommending the transfer of the Consulary Correspondence with the Barbary States from the Colonial to the Foreign Office, he had seen it announced in the public prints, he knew not from what authority, that such a transfer was in contemplation. He begged therefore to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether this was true, as, upon receiving an answer in the affirmative, the observations which he should otherwise think it his duty to submit to the House would be narrowed into a very small compass.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, he should abstain from adverting, at that moment, to the situation of the African States, which particularly required the attention of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and from several other topics; and would content himself upon the present occasion with noticing the disastrous state to which the regency of Tripoli had been reduced by the indiscretion, he would not use a stronger term, of the British agent. Though the immediate cause of the war which had now for several years devastated that unhappy country was the striking of the British
 1197
 Lord John Russell : The hon. and learned Gentleman had commenced his speech by lamenting the thinness of the House at the moment of his rising, as compared with what it had been a short time previous; and from that circumstance had seemed to infer a culpable remissness on the part of Members, in not being present to attend to his arguments for the setting aside the verdict which the former Parliament recorded upon the same subject. He did not think the hon.
 1220 1221 1222 1223 1224 1225 1226 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1227 l. l. 1228
 Lord John Russell  did not rise to oppose
 1196 interim
 Colonel Sibthorp  was in favour of inquiry, because he thought it would establish the claims of those who were on the list. If, however, any persons should be found to be on it who were not deserving he, for one, would say, let them be struck off.
 Mr. Harvey  replied, it was satisfactory to him, and it would be satisfactory to the country, to know that no one had ventured to stand up and resist this inquiry, who was not, either in his own person, or in those of his immediate connections, a recipient of a portion of the money appropriated to these pensions. The noble Lord had to-night displayed a pettiness of disposition which showed him to be unfit to be the leading Minister of that House. Instead of meeting the question fairly upon its merits, the noble Lord had come down with a pamphlet in his pocket, having personal reference to himself (Mr. Harvey). But he was pleased to find the noble Lord driven to this resource, as it bespoke a consciousness of the feebleness of his cause, when he felt it necessary to indulge in the vulgarity of personality. He (Mr. Harvey) had said
 1238 l l.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he would begin the observations which he was about to address to the House by reading the resolution of which he had given notice,—"That a Select Committee be appointed to revise each pension specified in a return ordered to be printed on the 28th of June, 1835, with a view to ascertain whether the continued payment thereof is justified by the circumstances of the original grant, or the condition of the parties now receiving the same, and to report thereon to the House." It was impossible, when he called to mind the fact that the names of all the Members of the House had just been called over expressly, not only to divide upon, but to hear the grounds on which they were to divide upon his motion, which related to a subject on which the people of this country took great interest, not to be surprised at
 1199 1200 1201 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1202 l. l. 1203 l. l. 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209 Hear, hear. 1210 1211 1212 l. l. l. l. l. 1213 l. l. l. l. l. 1214 l. 1215 l. l. l. 1216 Cheers, with expressions of dissent. 1217 1218 l. 1219 l.
 Mr. Harvey : has there been no grant to Lord Glenelg?
 Mr. Harvey : was it not intended? Perhaps time may show: but if the right hon. Gentleman means to say, that it was never intended. [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer 1239 compos mentis. 1240
 Mr. Harvey  in rising to move the Order of the Day for calling over the House, begged to ask the noble Lord (John Russell) whether it was his intention to oppose the motion? If it were his intention, then he should first move that the Order of the Day be read, and afterwards that the House be called over.
 Mr. Harvey  then moved, that the House be called over, and in doing so said, he was anxious to state, as far as his own individual opinion was concerned, that looking at the unprecedented attendance of Members, at the present moment, he was content to dispense with a call of the House, if he could do so consistently with the course to be pursued by the noble Lord, the Member for Buckinghamshire, who had given notice of a call for Thursday next. The object of that noble Lord was to direct the attention of the House to the present state of agriculture, and to endeavour to procure for the agriculturists some relief out of the surplus which fortunately the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, stated was at his disposal. He therefore considered he could not, with consistency, wave his motion, inasmuch as while the object of the noble Lord was to promote economy, his object was to prevent extravagance. Under these circumstances, he felt it his duty to proceed with his motion.
 Mr. Buckingham  wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was his intention to limit the reduced stamp-duty to a sheet of a particular size, because, if so, many country papers which were printed on large sheets would suffer by the regulation.
 Mr. Angerstein  asked if it was not a principle of the Poor-law Act, that no relief should be granted to any person who had relations in a condition to support him?
 Mr. Hume  thought, that when the noble Lord referred to the injustice of which his hon. Friend (Mr. Harvey) complained— namely, the delay of inquiry until the principal witnesses were dead—he stated one of the strongest reasons that could possibly be adduced in favour of his hon. Friend's motion on the present occasion. The noble
 1229 1230 1231 l. 1232
 Colonel Parry  observed, that the widows of naval officers were required to make a declaration that they were in circumstances of distress before they were allowed to receive any pension; and he thought a similar declaration should be required of those who received pensions from the Crown.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to set the hon. and learned Member for Southwark right as to what he had stated respecting the droits of the Admiralty. It was clear from that statement, that an impression existed on his mind, and which he endeavoured to make upon the mind of the House, that after the droits of the Admiralty had been transferred from his Majesty to the public, a sum amounting to 6,000 l. l. 1237
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : the hon. Gentleman is quite mistaken; he is entirely wrong.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : no.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that he meant to reduce the duty from 4 d. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer. —Certainly.
 Sir Edward Codrington  supported the motion, for the reason which had been stated by the hon. and gallant Officer below him.
 Mr. Ward  wished to state, as shortly as possible, the grounds on which his vote would be given. He came into the House with as strong a feeling against the Pension-List—against the abuses, the anomalies, and the misapplications, which took place in the expenditure of the public money—as any one of those hon. Gentlemen who sat around him, and he entertained as full a conviction that, as it was the duty, so it should be one of the first acts of a Reformed House of Commons to put an end to the abuses of pensions by revising the whole List. He believed that he was one of those who must plead guilty to the charge brought forward by the hon. Member for Southwark, of having professed those sentiments upon the hustings. He was certain that these were the princi-
 1233 1234 l. l. l. 1235 1236
 Sir Robert Inglis  was of opinion that, from the moment Parliament took possession of the hereditary revenues of the Crown, upon condition of granting a certain amount for the Civil List, a portion of which was set apart to be appropriated by the Crown in the way of pensions, the Crown by its prerogative had the full disposition of that money, and was as free from the control of Parliament as a private individual in the exercise of its liberality. Considering, therefore, all the suppositions of the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, as being so many certain truths, he would still contend, that the country had no right to exercise any control over the discretion of the Crown in the appropriation of that portion of the Civil List set apart for pensions.
 Viscount Palmerston  complained that the motion was different from that of which the hon. and learned Gentleman had given notice, which was to call the attention of the House to the correspondence in question. He would not, however, dispute upon the point of order; but he assured the hon. and learned Gentleman that he would endeavour to make himself master of the subject, of the importance of which he was quite sensible. As the correspondence was to be trans-
 1198
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that the Government had resolved to act upon the opinion expressed by the Committee, and that arrangements were in progress for carrying into effect a transfer of the business. Preparations had been making at the Foreign Office for the receipt of the books and documents alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  supported the prayer of the petition. He knew that the destruction of game was not the object of the petitioners, but they were in general overrun with rabbits, which had been allowed to multiply too much; and if the rabbits were kept down there would be no complaints.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  said, that the prayer of the petition was rather an extraordinary one—namely, that it should be refer red to the judges to as certain whether the petitioner was a  femme sole or a femme couverte.
 Sir George Clerk  read from the journals of the House a minute of the case of Mr. Pascoe Grenfell, in which, on a motion made, that the vote of Mr. Grenfell be annulled, he having had a personal interest in the question, Mr. Grenfell was heard in his place, and the House resolved,  nem. con.,
 Sir Samuel Whally  begged pardon of the House for intruding on its notice in any reference to a matter that was personal to himself, and he could assure the House that he adverted to it with a great deal of pain. He begged to assure the House that he fully recognised the principle that had been laid down, and was most anxious to implore his Friends—for Friends he trusted he had many in that House—not to consider it as a personal attack. Let the House bear in mind what were the general principles he had maintained in that House; he trusted that every part of his conduct since he had been a. Member of it, had been upright and honourable, and he trusted the House would now permit him to withdraw.
 Lord Stanley  said, one great advantage arising from this subject having been mentioned, was, that it was entirely a question distinct from personal feeling, because the majority on the occasion was so large that one or two votes made no difference in the decision at which the House had arrived. It was perfectly clear, that the conduct of the hon. Member for Marylebone had been open, fair, and candid on this transaction. He was applied to to become a subscriber and Director, and took shares to the amount of 2,000 l. 1252
 Mr. Pryme  considered, that the situation in which an hon. Member placed himself, by voting for a question in which he was personally interested, was of his own seeking. He (Mr. Pryme) had no interest in this Bill, but if he had, he certainly should not consider himself entitled to vote.
 Mr. Harves  said, that this motion ought not to be made a partial one. Let the noble Lord speak out manfully, and move the resolution of the year 1830. [Cries of "You move."] He would then move the resolution of 1830, as an amendment (to the motion of the noble Lord), which was to the effect, that it was incompatible with the ends of public justice, and inconsistent with the situation of hon. Members of that House, to vote on any private Bill in which they might have a direct personal interest
 1257
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  said, the parties took their land knowing what they would be subject to, and they had no right to com plain. He did not think it would be generally advantageous to destroy game altogether.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that when the former petition on this subject was presented, he then expressed his opinion—an opinion which he now begged leave to repeat—that he did not think it was a case in which the House should interfere. The matter having come before the magistrates of Seaford, they had a case made out of it, and sent up to the law officers of the Crown for their opinion. That opinion was given, the magistrates acted up to it, and if there was anything wrong
 1248
 Mr. Fox Maule : Having given several days notice of the petition which I hold in my hand, I trust I may be allowed to state as shortly as I can to the House, the grievances set forth in it. It is signed by 1,279 owners and occupiers of land in the county which I have the honour to represent (Perth). They complain, that owing to the present state of the Game Laws they are deprived of that protection to their property which is enjoyed by all other holders of property in this country; and I must say, that the grounds of this complaint are unhappily too well founded. When we consider the state of the times, as far as agricultural interests are concerned—when we know that it is only by the greatest energy, enterprise, and skill, that the farmer can meet the high rent which he is called on to pay, it does appear monstrous that the seed which he commits to the ground, that the growing crop on which his existence depends, should be devoured before his eyes, without his having the slightest power either to destroy the animals that prey upon him, or to obtain redress for the damage they occasion. They complain, also, in language most respectful, of the course pursued by the House when a measure of redress was last year proposed to its notice, and they deeply regret the unwillingness of the House to listen on that occasion to what they conceived to be a just and equitable mode of settling this question, which, while it left the landlord in the enjoyment of his amusements derived from the pursuit of game, which I would be the last man to wish to interrupt, at the same time afforded protection to the small proprietors and cultivators of the soil. Upon this subject, however, I feel a delicacy in entering further, and bow for the present to the decision of the House. I feel that the state of the Game Laws is such, that they must ere long demand the attention of the Legislature, and I shall avail myself of whatever opportunity may occur, to obtain for my constituents that redress for their grievances which they pray for in the petition. I always regret when I see the landlord and tenant differing on the subject of game, as I feel convinced that arrangements might be made compulsory by law which would have the effect of bringing about a clear understanding on the subject, and that game, instead of being as it too often is, the source of dissension, might become a connecting link between the two. I move that this petition be now received.
 Lord Granville Somerset  stated, that he could also say, that he had no personal interest whatever in the measure before the House. He thought, however, that it was most essential that Committees to whom inquiries of this nature were in trusted, should be most accurate in the statements that they made. It was not then his intention to discuss the merits or de merits of the Bill, but he certainly con-
 1249
 Lord Granville Somerset  begged to re mark that he did not act upon any personal feeling, but purely on public grounds. He did not mean to impute any improper conduct to the hon. Member for Marylebone, for, on the contrary, he would freely admit that that hon. Gentleman had acted in the most straightforward and honourable manner.
 Lord John Russell  had always under stood the practice of the House to be that which had been laid down by the Speaker of the House of Commons in the year 1811, and which had been quoted by the right hon. Baronet. He quite agreed in the general view which had been taken by the hon. Member for London. He thought that the question, whether any hon. Member, having a direct interest in the matter, should vote upon a Committee sitting with reference to such work wherein such Member was personally interested, was, indeed, a question which should be
 1256
 Mr. Hawes  withdrew his amendment.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would also beg his hon. Friend not to bring forward the general question, mixed up as it was with the merits of this particular case. He thought it was very necessary that the House should lay down some general rule upon the broad question, whether hon. Members should or should not vote on questions immediately affecting their personal interests; and he did not agree in the opinion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, that the present state in which the matter lay was a good one. He thought that the vote of the Member for Marylebone ought to be disallowed.
 Mr. Villiers  would suggest, that no witness could give evidence in a Court of Justice, who had a direct personal interest to the amount of 20 l.
 Mr. Grote  said, that there appeared to he a general feeling that it was not very desirable for Members to vote on questions in which they had a direct personal interest, while, on the other hand, it was admitted to be impossible to draw any definite line on the subject. The inference which he should draw from these circum stances was, that Committees of that House were not fit tribunals to decide upon these subjects.
 Mr. Grote  rose to present a Petition from sixty merchants of the city of London, who might be considered as fair representatives of its trade. The petitioners complained that a system of commercial regulations, eminently favourable to the intercourse which existed between this country and Turkey, had been acted upon for a considerable period by the latter; but that this wise and salutary policy had of late been changed by the overbearing interference of Russia with Turkey. The petitioners prayed the House to extend to Turkey that moral and political support of the House and the Government which would enable that country to act on its own views, and thereby place on a pro per footing the trade between the countries which, if just facilities were afforded, it would, in the belief of the petitioners, in crease to an almost illimitable extent. In presenting this petition, he should only ex press an anxious hope, that while every precaution was taken by the Government for that protection of trade to which this country was fully entitled, and for the re dress of any undue encroachments on the part of Russia, still he could not but deprecate any course which would have the effect of involving this country in hostility to Russia, and thereby interrupting the peace and tranquillity which now happily prevailed in Europe. He said this, because it had of late become the custom in that House to use very unmeasured language as to the general aggressions of Russia; language, respecting which, whatever opinion he might entertain as a private individual,
 1259
 Mr. Aglionby  trusted, that a specific motion would be brought forward on this subject in order to determine the principle. He thought, at the same time, that it was particularly hard that the principle should be brought forward in opposition to the vote of the hon. Member for Marylebone, when a similar course had been pursued by scores and scores of Members of that House. He would instance the votes last night upon the motion of the hon. Member for Southwark, with regard to the Pension List, and he would ask whether no hon. Members voted against inquiry, who were connected with persons deriving pecuniary advantage for being on that list? With respect also to the twenty millions Compensation Bill, did no one vote in favour of that Bill who was connected with the West India interest? Again, as regarded the Corn-laws, did not the landlords vote in favour of the continuance of those laws, he
 1251
 Mr. Warburton  said, it might be, that persons had voted on Railway Bills who were interested in them, but if so, the circumstance had not been brought under the cognizance of the House. Gentlemen who held shares, or were Directors of a Company, might have it in their power to vary the market price of those shares by a particular course of action, and was it fitting that such persons should have the power of voting upon the Bills in which they were themselves interested?
 Mr. Warburton  deprecated the speech of the hon. Member who had brought the subject forward, and the principle of such a motion as he had made—a kind of motion, which was renewed from time to time, without any other practical effect than interrupting the course of the national prosperity. He confessed, that his hopes of any long-lived independence for Poland, looking to the abject state of dependence in which she had been kept by Russia before, and since the Treaty of Vienna, were very slight indeed. If, instead of recognising, we had protested against the partition of Poland, he might, indeed, have entertained some expectations of establishing that kingdom; but when he considered, that the only parties to whom they could look for the restoration of her independence, were the two countries who had been her greatest aggressors, any high prospects he might otherwise have entertained, faded speedily away. Had Napoleon, with the confederated armies of Germany and Italy, been able to restore independence to Poland? No; was it then to be expected, that we, by our own unaided exertions, and the parchment Treaty of Vienna, could accomplish the object? As long as we could assist Poland in her efforts, by sending a representative to Cracow, well and good; but it was hope less to expect, that the end could be obtained by an appeal to war; it was only by encouraging and fostering the moral feelings to which a state of peace gave
 1303
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  said, that many hon. Gentlemen were in the habit of indulging in general statements respecting the aggressions of Russia, but they ought to remember what the conduct of this country had been towards that power, even during the last twenty years. The partition of the Turkish empire had been talked of, but it was effected—not by Russia alone, but by England, Russia, and the Pacha of Egypt. Did the House recollect, that when the present King of the Belgians was offered the sovereignty of Greece, he refused it, because he could not obtain the island of Candia? Nothing was thought, then, of the sovereignty of Turkey. The Treaty with the present King of the Belgians was broken off be cause he could not have Candia in addition to the dominion of Greece at that time offered to him. This then was an instance
 1304 Question, question! Question, question ! 1305
 Mr. Roebuck : Sir, when we know the serious difficulties in which this country was involved by the last war, and the ad vantages which have resulted from the pro found peace which it has so happily of late years enjoyed, we ought to consider gravely before we again embroil ourselves in hostilities. Why should we connect ourselves with the political quarrels on the Continent of Europe? I am never, for my part, con tented with carrying out a principle half way. I lay down this proposition, that we ought never to mingle in European quarrels, or European politics. Ours is a single and insulated position, we have peculiar and insulated interests; and we ought never for any idle notion of maintaining "the balance of power," to embroil ourselves in disputes that do not belong to us. Our insulated condition, and insulated interests, point out to us that we ought never until we are attacked, to attack any other Power, and that never, unless for the purpose of avenging a wrong inflicted upon us, ought we to go to war. That is the broad pro position which I lay down. People may quarrel with that proposition, but it is incumbent upon them to show that it is erroneous, we must always assume the advantage to be on the side of peace; and the onus lies on those who wish us to depart from it to prove that we are bound by our condition to go to war. Sir, in support of the proposition which I have just laid down, I will cite the conduct of a nation much like ourselves; like us addicted to commerce, whose prosperity like ours is drawn from commerce, and who, in every political connexion, is based upon commercial advantages. I mean the United States of America, like ourselves separated from European quarrels and European politics. Now, I ask, in what
 1306 l. 1307 1308 1309
 Mr. Roebuck  denied, that he had justified the partition of Poland. He considered that act to be unjust, but that its consequences had proved beneficial.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to put the question on a higher principle than it had yet been placed. The Members of that House were sent there as the Representatives of the people of England, clothed with all the peculiarities of their different dispositions and interests, and he did not think the House would sanction their acting in op position to their wishes. If any portion of the people of England elected a man to be their Representative, that House had not the power of determining on what questions he should or should not vote.
 Mr. Brotherton  thought, that it was very important that this question should be decided upon principle.
 Mr. Hume  begged to know from the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether our Ambassador, Sir Frederick Lamb, who had been absent from Austria for a period of sixteen months, received his full amount of salary and allowance during that period? He felt the more anxious to have the absence of our Ambassador at the Court of Austria satisfactorily accounted for, as he recollected that he had had occasion two
 1258
 Mr. Hume  begged his hon. Friend not to attempt to press his amendment; let the motion he carried, and the principle be properly discussed afterwards and set at rest.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that it was the law of Parliament that no person having a personal interest in any question before House should be entitled to vote. A case occurred in the time of Mr. Huskisson, and there was also the case of the St. Katherine's docks, both of which were so decided. When a question relating to the St. Katherine's docks was before the House, Mr. Pascoe Grenfell having voted, the circum stance was brought under the notice of the House, and it having been ascertained that he had a personal interest in the question, it was ordered by the House that his vote be withdrawn. He should be sorry to see any person who had a personal interest in a question of this description voting in any division upon such a question.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. That motion, he observed, amounted in substance to the prayer of the two petitions which had just been laid on the Table, and aware as he was of the great weight and character of those whose
 1260 1261 "That it was England's wish to see some independent power established in Poland under a distinct dynasty of its own, and as a separation between the three great empires of Europe. "Experience has shown that the happiness of Poland and the tranquillity of Europe can not be secured by thwarting the national customs and habits. "An attempt of this kind would only excite among the Poles a spirit of disaffection and degradation, it would occasion revolts, and awaken the remembrance of great misfortunes. He earnestly requested the Sovereigns, upon whom the fate of Poland depended, not to leave Vienna till they had pledged themselves that the Poles, in their respective dominions, under whatever form of Government they might think proper to place them, should be treated as Poles." 1262 "That the just and liberal principles which Lord Castlereagh's note contained, were received by his Imperial Majesty, with the most cordial approbation, and that he had been de lighted to recognize the generous sentiments which characterise the British nation, and the enlarged and enlightened views of its Government." "That the principles laid down by Lord Castlereagh, as to the method of governing the Polish provinces, were in perfect conformity with the sentiments of his Prussian Majesty on the subject." "That the re-establishment of Poland as an independent state, with a national administration of its own, would have fully accomplished the wishes of his Imperial Majesty; and that he even would have been willing to make the greatest sacrifice to promote the restoration of that ancient and beneficial arrangement. He entirely agrees with the sentiments ex pressed by Lord Castlereagh in his memorial, of the wishes of his Court, as to the future lot of the Poles." "Of all the questions to be discussed at the Contress, the King would undoubtedly consider the affair of Poland as incomparably the most important to the interests of Europe, if there be any chance that this nation, so worthy of regard by its antiquity, its valour, its misfortunes, and the services it has formerly rendered to Europe, might be restored to complete independence." "It is with peculiar satisfaction that I announce to you that the destiny of your country is about to be fixed by the concurrence of all the powers assembled at Vienna. The Kingdom of Poland shall be united to the empire of Russia by 'The title of its own Constitution,' on which I am desirous of founding the happiness of the country. If the great interests involved in general tranquillity have not permitted all the Poles to be united under one sceptre, I have at least endeavoured, to the utmost of my power, to soften the hardships
 1263 "Your restoration is decreed by solemn treaties. It is sanctioned by the constitutional charter. The inviolability of these exterior arrangements, and of the fundamental law, secures henceforth in Poland an honourable rank among the nations of Europe—a privilege the more precious, as she has long sought it in vain, in the midst of the most severe trials." "Poles! we have already declared that our unchangeable desire is, that our Government should be but the continuation of that of the Emperor Alexander, of glorious memory; and we consequently declare to you that the institutions which he gave shall remain unaltered. I therefore promise, and swear before God, that I will observe the constitution, and that I will use all my efforts to maintain the same." 1264 "It must be admitted, that a more righteous rebellion never manifested itself in any country, or that this unhappy people were, if any ever were, justified in opposing the Government which was established in them. For what was that Government? The empire had rejected Constantine, the legitimate heir to the Throne of Russia, from his unfitness to reign over any body of men; and yet this miserable and incapable being was sent to reign over the unfortunate Poles. I most firmly believe that if ever there was in the whole history of mankind a justification for raising the standard of rebellion, it was in this case." "If the prince, attacking the fundamental laws, gives his subjects a legal right to resist him—if tyranny, becoming insupportable, ob liges the nation to rise in their defence, every foreign power has a right to succour an op pressed people who implore their assistance." "But all those privileges in themselves are but feeble defences against the real strength of those that govern. What would be the re source of the people if the prince, suddenly freeing himself, as it were, out of the constitution, should make no account of his convention, or attempt to force it to his will? It would be resistance." 1265 "Among all the disturbances which agitate Europe, and all those doctrines which shake the social edifice, Russia alone has remained strong and intact. Believe me, gentlemen, that it is a real blessing to belong to this country, and enjoy its protection." "Tyrants, in vain ye trace the wizzard ring, In vain ye limit mind's unwearied spring. What! can ye lull the winged winds asleep, Arrest the rolling world or chain the deep? No:—the wild wave contemns your sceptered hand;— It roll'd not back when Canute gave command!" 1266 1267 "As to the idea which seems to be entertained by several gentlemen of its being in tended to exterminate a large kingdom, either morally or politically, if it be seriously entertained anywhere, it is so perfectly impracticable, that I think there need be no apprehension of its being attempted." "The hon. Member complains that Russia is about to play the same game at Constantinople as she did in Poland; but I am convinced, that the Russian troops will shortly evacuate Turkey, if they have not already done so, and that she will fulfil the pledge she has given on this subject, not only to England, but to the whole of Europe. I do not think that it enters into the policy of Russia to make an attempt at a partition of Turkey; but if she should make the attempt, it is impossible she could be successful." 1268 "Good sense, tolerance, and hospitality, have long ago done for the Ottoman Empire, what the other states of Europe are endeavouring to effect, by more or less happy political combinations. Since the throne of the Sultans has been elevated at Constantinople, commercial prohibitions have been unknown. They opened all the ports of their empire to the commerce, to the manufactures, to the territorial produce of the whole world. Liberty of commerce has reigned here without limits, as large, as extended as it is possible to be. Thus the markets of Turkey, supplied from all countries, refusing no objects which mercantile spirit puts in circulation, and imposing no charge on the vessels that transport them, are seldom or never the scenes of those disordered movements which, occasioned by the sudden deficiency of such merchandize with exorbitantly rising prices, are the scourges of the lower orders, by unsettling their habits, and by inflicting privations. From the system of
 1269 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1270 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1271 l. l. l. 1272 1273 1274 1275 1276 1277 1278 1279
 Mr. P. Stewart  was understood to say, that a case of interruption had actually occurred with respect to some ships returning home.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  said, his object in referring to the progressive rise of our trade with Turkey had been to convince the House of the great value of that branch of British commerce, and of the importance of preserving it. With regard to the result of this debate, when the right hon. Baronet enumerated the concurrent opinions against his motion, he ought to have omitted the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who had acceded to his first proposition, relative to a diplomatic mission to Cracow, and had also held out a hope of an extension of our consular appointments on the borders of the Euxine towards Persia. The debate had been very satisfactory to him, and he congratulated himself on having called up the right hon. Baronet, who had, for the first time, identified himself with the subject. With the permission of the House, having succeeded in the first part of his motion, and the second part having been in substance conceded, he would, with the permission of the House, withdraw the Resolution.—Resolution withdrawn.
 Mr. Bernal  agreed in what had fallen from the noble Lord. He was quite sure that it would be impossible for many years longer to keep up the present system of carrying on the private business of the Legislature; for the tribunals to which the various important questions were referred in the case of private Bills, were wholly incompetent to deal with them. When they were told that Gentlemen were to be allowed to sit upon Committees on Bills in which those same Gentlemen were directly interested, and that they should give a decision on those matters, he would ask simply, whether any principle so absurd would be admitted and allowed to be acted upon in any other tribunal? In other instances, he would ask, did they permit any men to sit in the double capacity of Judges and Jurors in their own case? Sure he was, that the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, never would countenance the assertion of any such principle. He would defy that right hon. Gentleman to pronounce such a doctrine, as that any gentlemen, however excellent and upright they might be, should be entitled to sit as the Judges and Jurors in their own case. They were certainly bound to find some remedy for this state of things. He contended that nothing would tend more to depreciate the House in the eyes of the country, than the persisting in any system, the practical effect of which was to render men Judges and Jurors in their own individual cases.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, he had not had any intention to take part in this debate; but the extraordinary sentiments and doctrines propounded by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, compelled him to notice them. It was the first occasion in his life, on which he had heard a defence, apology, or excuse for the most flagitious public act that had stained the annals of modern times—the partition of Poland. He had supposed that that nefarious proceeding had met with the just and universal reprobation of the whole civilized world; and it was with pain that he had heard a Member of the House of Commons of England become the defender of that measure, in a place where it certainly never found a defender before. The hon. and learned Gentleman had asked what the Poles had lost by the partition of their country? They lost everything that could be made dear to a nation, and without which there was no thing that deserves to be valued—its independence. The territory of a great and powerful people was parcelled out among States, whose very existence had been owing to the glorious efforts of that people—by which the religion and the liberties of Europe had been so often preserved. He should have been glad, that the feelings of the House, which had been so often manifested in favour of Poland had been spared the pain of hearing the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. He had so often addressed the House on the merits of that cause.—His sentiments on that subject were so well known that he would only now say, that they continued unchanged, and that the events which had since happened had only strengthened the opinion which he had formerly expressed. The hon. and learned Member for Bath, who seemed to found his reputation on the singularity of his opinions, had advanced another doctrine, which he had considered was exploded, and which never had been adopted by any considerable portion of the British public, and certainly never obtained favour with, any British statesman. The
 1318 1319 1320
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, there was the case of Mr. Harvey in 1830, with reference to Parliamentary agency. In con sequence of the decision which was come to on that subject, the hon. Member moved a resolution, that if the rule was to apply in his case, a similar rule should apply on all others, and upon that question the House came to a vote, and the decision was 124
 1255
 Mr. Gisborne  could state a case perfectly in accordance with the view which had been taken by the right hon. Baronet. He (Mr. Gisborne) applied a short time since to the Directors of a railway, who had a Bill before Parliament, he would not name the Company, the Committee on which he attended, for twenty shares. Not seeing his name in the list of sub scribers, he applied to the solicitor to know the reason, and his answer was, that he thought it better to keep out of view the names of all Members of Parliament; that he might have voted with perfect security without its being known that he was a shareholder, and this was told him in an hotel close in the neighbourhood of that House. He became a shareholder because the railroad ran contiguous to his property, and not because he was a Member of Parliament. At the same time he saw no reason, why, being a Member of that House, he should not be a shareholder. In the case he had mentioned, however, he did not appear as a shareholder, because he was a Member of Parliament. He felt himself bound to state, that the conduct of the hon. Member for Marylebone had been as open and manly as possible.
 Mr. Kemp  said, that the present case was a very distressing one, and he trusted, therefore, that it would meet with the consideration of the House. As no discretionary power was vested in the magistrates, or the Poor Law Commissioners on the subject, and as the poor woman was liable to be sent next Monday to gaol, he thought that the prayer of the petition should be complied with.
 Mr. Wakley  as his hon. Friend had with drawn his amendment, must propose, that the discussion on this motion be adjourned till Tuesday next. He begged to confirm what had been stated by the right hon. Member for Tamworth, that the conduct of the hon. Member for Marylebone had been throughout most manly;—there had been on his part no concealment and no hypocrisy. He had stated openly to the Committee—"I am a Director of this Company, and I am the proprietor of many shares." He was bound to state, as a Member of the Committee, that no man could have detected from the conduct of the hon. Member for Marylebone that he had any interest in this undertaking.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that it was impossible to
 1250
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  said, that many hon. Members had voted on Railway Bills, in the course of the Session, who were interested in them, and he thought it very hard, therefore, to attempt to visit on the hon. Member for Marylebone that as an offence which had been done by so many others. It was very hard, that he should be selected as the scapegoat.
 Mr. Ormsby Gore , in rising to propose the further consideration of the Report of the London Grand Junction Railway, said, that however distressed he might have felt at the unavoidable circumstance that had prevented his attendance sooner, yet he rejoiced, that the delay had occurred, as it had given those who were opposed to this measure sufficient time to examine their objections, and to ascertain how far they were well founded. He had no personal interest in this railway, nor was he concerned in any speculations of the kind. He rejoiced to find, that the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, who had at first entertained objections to this Bill, had given up his objections to it, and would not now oppose it. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the further consideration of the Report.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that in rising to second the motion of his hon. Friend, he should as much as possible con fine himself to the topics which his own professional experience gave him a claim to speak; and, in the first place, he hoped he might be permitted to say a few words to remove a misrepresentation which the French papers had given circulation to, directed against himself. It was there said, that he had spoken disrespectfully of the Russian people. This, he could assure the House, he had never done; and from his experience of Russian soldiers and sailors, was not at all inclined to do so. Numbers had served under his command in the Mediterranean, and he felt on the contrary disposed to give them every credit as a brave and well-conducted force. He was confident, that the Russian people encouraged the most friendly feelings towards this country, and it became us to meet their goodwill in the spirit of honourable reciprocity. He would call the attention of the House to the position which Russia was at this moment assuming as a maritime Power, and they would see the ne-
 1280 1281 1282 1283
 Captain Pechell , pursuant to notice, had to present the petition of an unfortunate woman who by the course of law had been deprived of her legal and natural protector; and he felt assured that on this, as on other occasions when a female besought their sympathy, the House would favour her advocate with their attention. It was necessary before he entered into the case that the House should be aware, in consequence of some remarks which had been made, that although the cause of complaint had arisen in consequence of a change of administering parish relief, it was not sought in this matter to question the principle of the Poor-Law Bill, as in all probability the grievance would have occurred had not that measure come into operation. Neither was it intended to attribute any improper motives to the Cinque Port Magistrates concerned, who appeared to have shewn some indulgence, and who, no doubt, had acted according to the law as laid down or explained to them. Still he, (Captain P.) had much reason to regret the cause which had produced the present petition. The Horse would re collect that, on the 26th February, a petition was presented from Jane Champion, which stated, that she had the misfortune, in consequence of the transportation of her husband, to be left with six young children totally unprovided for, and with every prospect of producing a seventh. The parish officers then allowed her a maintenance for the children, the payment of which ceased on the Poor-Law Bill coming into operation. The children were than taken into the workhouse, and the mother was allowed to seek a subsistence for herself. The parish officers imagining that by compelling the petitioner to go into the work house she might be induced to take back her children, obtained a warrant under the
 1246 bona fide. 1247 femme sole or femme convert.
 Sir James Graham : the case of Mr. Harvey, as alluded to by the hon. Member for Finsbury, involved a motion of a general nature. In that case, the previous question was carried in consequence of the reasons stated by the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. C. Wynn), who laid down the law of Parliament on the subject, and who voted in the majority.
 The Attorney-General  thought, that it was not according to the law of Parliament, that persons having a personal interest in any question before the House could not vote upon that question. On the 20th of March, 1825, a motion was submitted, that it was the opinion of that House, that no Member should vote for or against any measure in which he had a direct pecuniary interest, and the previous question being put, the motion was negatived. It, therefore, still remained a  vexata questio. 1253
 Sir Robert Peel  should be very sorry if the House were called upon to lay down any general rule on the subject, because he did not think, that the discussion which had taken place corresponded with the importance of the subject. In many instances, if a Member were precluded from voting, in consequence of a direct personal interest in any question, he might be prevented from doing his duty to his constituents. As regarded a remission of a particular description of taxation, a person might have a direct personal interest, but yet there was no law of Parliament that would disqualify him from voting. The principle of Parliament was to be found in a note to Mr. Hatsell's work, who said, that the rule which had been laid down with respect to Members voting on subjects in which they had a direct personal interest was not sufficiently attended to, and that the practice had been contrary to law, to decency, and justice. A case came before the House on the 4th of July, 1800, in which several votes were rejected. Again, there was a case on the 16th of May, 1811, but as no vote was come to, the principle was not practically applied. Again, in 1811, with regard to the Gold Coin Bill, a question arose as to whether the Directors of the Bank of England had not a direct personal interest in that Bill, and the proposition was negatived. The question of direct personal interest, generally speaking, applied to estate bills and canal bills, and to Joint Stock Company Bills, but did not apply to tax Bills, or to Bills of colonial regulation. He thought there would now be great difficulty in establishing a general rule, because, if the object was to prevent the influence of direct personal interest, the mere establishment of the rule would not prevent Members from becoming share holders and Directors of these companies. What was to prevent any Member who had no share in the first instance, when there would be no apparent cause for influencing his vote, after the Bill had gone through Committee, or having passed the third reading, to take part in the speculation? Would not his personal interest in the matter be then as direct as if he had originally been a subscriber to the undertaking? He thought, that the House had even greater security from the notoriety of the fact of seeing the names of
 1254 l.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the hon. Member who had brought forward this motion must be not a little surprised to witness the concurrence of persons of different political sentiments in opposition to his motion. The noble Lord, the Secretary of State, the hon. Member for Southampton, and the hon. Member for Bath, differing in their sentiments on other topics, agreed in opposing this motion; and he must state, for his own part, that he gave his unqualified concurrence to that opposition; though he did not subscribe to all the arguments which had been brought forward, he agreed in the conclusion at which they arrived; and if the hon. Member pressed his motion to a division, he should record his unqualified dissent from it. He concurred with the hon. Member for Bath in the propriety of acting with care and caution in such matters, and in the inconvenience of discussing this question in a popular assembly; but he did not concur with him in other parts of his speech, in particular when he maintained that this country ought to withdraw from
 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314 1315 1316 1317
 Sir Stratford Canning  presented a Petition from Glasgow on the same subject as that which had just been presented to the House by the hon. Member for the City of London. The petition was signed by 160 individuals, comprising many of the most respectable and opulent merchants and manufacturers of the important
seat of commerce from which it came. He would state the principal points of the petition. Its general purport was, that Russia had adopted a restrictive system of commerce particularly prejudicial to the trade of Great Britain, and that in the same spirit she had acquired, and now exercised, an undue influence over Persia and Turkey; that both those countries were capable of affording a most important and beneficial field for the extension of British trade; that the ancient institutions and modern treaties of Turkey were highly favourable to our commercial interests, and therefore that the petitioners looked to Parliament for assistance in obtaining the removal of their grievances, and the promotion of that commercial intercourse with the Levant, in which they were either directly or indirectly concerned. Having thus stated the general object of the petition, he would not detain the House from hearing the hon. Member for Lancaster, who had already risen on the motion of which he had given notice, further than to express his earnest hope that all due attention would be given to the prayer of a petition so numerously and respectably signed. With respect to the grievances complained of, much must, of course, depend upon the nature of the facts remaining to be explained; but he would declare his conviction that the resources of the Turkish empire and of the Eastern countries in general were such as to justify the petitioners in looking for a considerable extension of trade in that quarter; and he trusted that, with all due regard to the rights of other countries, and particularly to the great interests of peace, measures calculated to realize a just and reasonable expectation would be adopted.
 Lord Mahon : if even I had not wished to take any part in this debate, I should still have been induced to rise by the re marks of the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Stewart) on the peace of Adrianople, and on the line of conduct pursued at that time by the Duke of Wellington; and though the hon. Member is mistaken in supposing that I was in any way connected with the Foreign Department at that period, yet undoubtedly, when much later, in December, 1834, I was appointed to an. office in that Department, I considered it one of my earliest duties to make myself as thoroughly acquainted with all the details of those negotiations, as the records within my reach would allow me, I think I shall be
 1293 1294 "In the event of any territorial aggrandisement being contemplated, to adopt the gravest tone of remonstrance, consistently with abstaining from all language of menace." 1295 1296 "He was prepared also to contend that the Government of the Ottoman Porte had been treated with extraordinary long suffering, with most exemplary patience, and with most un expected forbearance. It was bare justice to Russia to say, that her dealings with the Ottoman Power for the last seven years had been marked with as great forbearance as the conduct of that Power had been distinguished by continued insolence and incorrigible contumacy;" "Turkey has been called our ancient ally, words which, when examined, will be found to be a modern blunder. No, my Lords, I hope I never shall see, God forbid I ever should see, for the proposition would be scouted from one end of England to another, any preparations or any propositions, or any attempt to defend this, our ancient ally from the attacks of its enemies." "That with respect to the transaction itself, of the battle of Navarino, he concurred with, the learned Lord (the Earl of Eldon) in thinking it most unfortunate; and that the effect which was naturally to be expected from such an event (meaning the further defeat of Turkey) might be averted, he sincerely trusted." 1297 1298 1299 1300 1301 1302
 Viscount Palmerston : I have received on official information that anything has occurred which is not warranted by the treaty: and I can only say, that when such a statement shall be made to me by the parties concerned, it shall be brought under the attention of the Government, and shall be dealt with by them in such manner as the law-advisers of the Crown shall deem consistent with the rights of the subjects of this country. But to refer again to the navigation of the Danube: I submit, that in the present state of things, no ground has been shown upon which this House could be called upon to take any step with regard to that part of my hon. Friend's case, and that that question, like the former, may fairly be left for the present in the hands of the Government, provided this
 1290 1291 bonâ fide 1292
 Viscount Palmerston : in rising to answer what I must now call the very able and eloquent speech of ray hon. Friend, the Member for Lancaster, I select, in preference to other topics to which he adverted one which he introduced only incidentally, but which I feel anxious to reply to before I proceed to other parts of his speech. My hon. Friend seems to entertain an opinion that upon these great questions to which he has directed the attention of the House, the Cabinet was divided in opinion. Now I can assure my hon. Friend, and I beg also to assure the House, that neither upon these questions, nor upon any others dos there exist any division or difference of opinion amongst his Majesty's Ministers. I can assure the House that we all of us entertain the same view of these questions—that we are desirous, in the first place, to maintain peace as long as peace can be maintained consistently with the honour and interests of the country—that we are deeply sensible of the great importance of those interests which are involved in the questions to which the hon. Member has referred; but we believe that if Parliament will place their confidence in us—if they will leave it to us to manage the foreign relations of the country, assured that we shall not neglect our duty—if Parliament will give us this confidence, we fancy, and I believe, we do not deceive ourselves there in, that we shall be able to protect the interests, and to uphold the honour of the country, without being obliged to have re course to war. I have thought it necessary to advert to that fact—first, because I now see there could be nothing which would tend more to defeat the objects which my hon. Friend has in view—that there could be nothing which would tend more to paralyse the efforts of the British Government in their negotiations with foreign nations, than the notion that there existed a division of sentiment in the British Cabinet, and that all the Members of the Administration did not entertain the same opinions upon these great and important questions. My hon. Friend began the review which he has taken of these questions, by starting at a very remote period. His motion divides itself into two general topics—the question of Poland, and
 1284 1285 1286 1287 l. l. 1288 1289
 Viscount Palmerston  stated, that it was the rule for Ambassadors who were absent from the court to which they were sent, to forfeit half their salary. With respect to the particular case, mentioned by his hon. Friend, he could inform him, that Sir Frederick Lamb was about to repair to Austria immediately, and that he had been detained in this country for the last two or three months, not on account of his own convenience, but for the advantage of the public service.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for leave to bring in "a Bill to extend to all classes of his Majesty's subjects the privilege of protection in the due observance of the Lord's day." The hon. Baronet said, that he would not trouble the House with many observations in support of his Bill, unless it were the intention of hon. Members to oppose the motion for leave to bring it in.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  must then beg the indulgence of the Mouse, while he made a few observations. This was now the
 6 7 8 9
 Sir Oswald Moseley  rose to second the motion of the honourable Baronet, and in doing so, conceived the task he had undertaken to perform an easy one, inasmuch as he imagined no opposition would be given to bringing in the Bill. He had hoped his hon. Friend, the Member for Derbyshire, would have been the last man to object to a Bill, merely for the purpose of Sabbath legislation, and with respect to which the House could not then know anything. Upon former occasions, however, they had heard enough upon the subject of Sabbath legislation, to anticipate the object of the present Bill. He regretted to say, that in a Christian country, [ interruption 10 "No!" 11 O'Connell:
 Mr. Gisborne  must ask the House to consider whether this was or was not a religious question. He must say, that in his opinion, the interests of religion would not be promoted by passing a Bill of this description. He did not intend to enter into any general discussion of the principle of the Bill, but to state in a simple manner to the House the course which the attempts at Sabbath legislation had taken, up to that time; and he put it to the House whether, after the repeated decisions which the House had come to on this subject, it was desirable to proceed? It was his intention to move the previous question on the hon. Baronet's motion, because he considered it was not desirable, after the repeated attempts that had been made—all of which had proved abortive—to again renew the question of Sabbath legislation. Several Bills had been brought in by the hon. Baronet since 1833, and none of them had reached, or gone beyond a second reading. There was one year in which the hon. Baronet did not appear before the House as a promoter of a Bill on this subject, but then it was taken up by the hon. Member for Shaftesbury (Mr. Poulter); and what did the House suppose was the extent of printing which this subject had given rise to? He could tell them: it extended to no less a number than 84,000 pages. There was one Sabbath Bill introduced into the House of Lords by a noble and learned Lord, who usually coincided in opinion with the majority of that House; but their Lordships did not do the Commons the favour to send that Bill down to them; they disposed of it themselves. He thought the hon. Baronet could not have any serious expectation of passing the Bill, and, therefore, it was
 12
 Mr. O'Connell : I feel it quite incumbent upon me to assure the hon. Baronet, that I had not the least idea whatever of laughing at him, or at any one else, on that side of the House. The hon. Baronet is far too respectable, and too much respected, for any one to laugh at him. I will tell him precisely the ludicrous idea at which I could not help smiling when he was speaking. The lines of some poet occurred to me. They are to this effect:—
 "In conventicle once looking very blue, I saw two knights, Oswald and Agnew; The first he was a very strange one; T'other a rigid Puritane-one, Who hanged his wicked cat on Monday, Because she killed a mouse on Sunday." 13 O. Moseley: 14
 Mr. Potter  observed, that the hon. Baronet had not entered into any of the details of the proposed measure, and therefore he (Mr. Potter) must look for the probable features of the enactments in the Bills which the hon. Baronet had previously brought in. He would contend that these Bills were Bills of pains and penalties, as regarded the working classes, while they gave the utmost latitude for the breaking of the Sabbath by the higher orders of the community. He was in utter ignorance of the details of the present Bill, and if, upon that ground alone, he would oppose the introduction of the measure.
 Mr. Plumptre  was ready to acknowledge the fact, that in England the Sabbath was more strictly observed than it was on the Continent; but still there were many abuses which it could not be denied ought to be remedied and removed. He would tell the House that there were many hon. Gentlemen who had liberty on their tongue, but who were most intolerant in their hearts. There was in that House men who wished to have the use of the Sabbath to themselves, but who would not allow one body of men to be protected in the observance of that day. He trusted
 15
 Lord Arthur Lennox  begged to say one single word. The hon. Member for Wigan had stated, that he was ignorant of the details of the proposed measure. Now it was upon that very principle that he (Lord Arthur Lennox), would support the motion of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Wigtonshire— He cared not whether hon. Gentlemen who cheered disagreed with him, but he hoped and trusted that, at least, he might be allowed on this, and every other occasion, to exercise his own judgement, and to follow the dictates of his conscience. He had voted for the first and second readings of the former Bills, though he had in no instance pledged himself to the details. The petition which he had presented in the early part of the evening was in favour of some legislative enactment to ensure a better observance of the Sabbath; it emanated from a vast number of his constituents, and expressed, he believed, the unanimous feelings of the inhabitants of that city which he had the honour to represent.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that without pledging himself to support the details of this measure, in its future stages, he felt bound to give his assent to its introduction; but he wholly dissented from the opinion which had been given by the hon. Member for Derbyshire. He thought that it would be the height of injustice to the hon. Baronet, and a gross dereliction of duty on the part of the House, if they were at once to reject a measure, in favour of which so large a number of persons had petitioned.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the hon. Baronet who thought to introduce this measure, for the better observance of the Sabbath had been highly complimented by the hon. Baronet who seconded the motion for the firmness with which he had persevered in the attempt to pass Bills having this object in view, through the House; and, therefore, he (Mr. Warburton) thought the House could not be much surprised if those hon. Gentlemen who had uniformly objected alike to the principle and details of the former Bills, should, with a degree of corresponding perseverance, follow up their determination to reject this proposed measure. If they were
 16
 Mr. Baines  would support the motion of the hon. Baronet, who had had the honour (for such he considered it to have been) to introduce several Bills on this subject. There had been that day a greater number of petitions presented in favour of some enactment to insure the better observance of the Lord's day than had been presented on any other subject during the present Session. It would be, on the one hand, a most ungracious proceeding towards the hon. Baronet and an injustice, on the other hand, to the constituencies of this country, if they were at once to reject the introduction of a measure in favour of which so many had petitioned.
 Mr. Roebuck : [ cries of Question. 17 Oswald Moseley: Oswald Moseley: 18
 Viscount Sandon  observed, that the hon. Member for Bath had charged those on his side of the House with hypocrisy, not, perhaps, in direct terms, but by "implication." He could not help saying, that there was as intolerant a spirit on the part of some hon. Members of that House against religious observances as any intolerance of bigotry exhibited by any former Parliament. This was a question which was not to be met by ribaldry and abuse, but was one the decision of which was looked to with the greatest anxiety by the middle and lower classes of the country. The hon. Member for Bath appeared to lose sight of the distinction between works of necessity and acts which obviously desecrated the Sabbath.
 Dr. Bowring  objected to the introduction of a measure of such importance without due notice.
 Mr. Pease  thought the measure would be most beneficial, and it should be recollected, that the power to alter these fairs and markets would be placed in the hands of the Magistrates.
 Mr. Warburton  objected to the Bill, which would go to alter the charters of most of the corporations of England.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that the hon. Baronet did not deal fairly with the House, for he obtained leave to bring in one measure and he proposed two. The second bill went to change Saturday's and Monday's fairs and markets. To such a proposition, he must most decidedly object, as one which would tend to introduce the utmost confusion and disorder in the internal trade of the country. He must also observe, that the hon. Baronet would be apt greatly to prejudice his other measure, when it was found, that in this he had gone so much beyond anything which could have been expected from the previous discussion. He had no objection to let the matter stand as a notice, in order to its full and fair discussion; but he could not consent to a postscript, which, like other postscripts, contained the most important part of the communication. Let the House have due notice of the matter, and he should have no objection to its full discussion.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  begged leave to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Harvey  considered, that the hon. Baronet had no right to withdraw his motion without the leave of the House, and he would prefer, that the House should come to some decision on it at present. It appeared to him, that the objection which had been raised against this motion, savoured much of the hypocrisy which some hon. Members had
 22 l.
 Mr. Hardy  said, it was not then necessary to advert to the considerations which led him to bring forward the subject of the Carlow election on a former occasion; that they fully justified his doing so, it was not requisite for him to show; neither did he feel the least occa-
 23 "—timeo Danaos et dona ferentes." "It appears that Mr. O'Connell addressed a letter, bearing date the 1st of June, 1835, to Mr. Raphael, in which an agreement for Mr. Raphael's return for the county of Carlow for 2,000 l. 24 l. "No, no.!" 25 26 27 "My dear Vigors,—We are all bustle, preparing to fight the Tories in all the counties and boroughs. Carlow county interests you more immediately. Wallace and Blakeney know they will not answer. The honest men then suggest Mr. Ponsonby, Lord Duncannon's son, and Mr. Raphael, the London sheriff. Will you call on Lord Duncannon on the business? I wrote to him to say I would ask you to do so. First, to-morrow you should see Mr. Raphael, and ascertain whether or not he would stand. We could secure him the county at an inconsiderable expense—say, for the very utmost, 3,000 l. "Believe me always, my dear Vigors, yours most faithfully, "DANIEL O'CONNELL." 28 "My dear Sir,—I agree with you entirely, in thinking that it would be extremely desirable to have Mr. Raphael in Parliament. I had already been apprised that he intimated recently a desire to be so; and indeed I believe it the more readily because he some two or three years ago told me as much. Fortunately, as I hope, there is now quite a suitable opportunity: Carlow County is likely to be deserted by its present Members, and we are threatened by two powerful Conservatives. You will be glad to hear that, even before I got your letter, I wrote to Mr. Vigors, suggesting Mr. Raphael as a likely person to coalesce with young Ponsonby, Lord Duncannon's son, and by that means secure the return of both, for both must embark, if at all, on the same bottom. My present impression is, that with Ponsonby's popularity and our recommendation of Mr. Raphael, success is to the last degree probable. I wish you would see Mr. Vigors on this subject. He lives near the Botanic Gardens; you will find his address in the  Directory. l, l. l. 29 l. "DANIEL O'CONNELL." "C. Pearson, Esq." 30 l. 31 But yet is as a gaoler to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor. l. l. l. 32 l. l. Oh, Oh. 33 O'Connell. "When does the copy of the account begin that you have to-day?—It begins with the month of June, 1835. What date in June?— The 3rd, I believe— And down to what time does it continue?—Till yesterday." l., 34 "This is my apology for having recommended to you so base a man as he now shows himself:—indeed, at present he is a creature so paltry, as to be below reproach. Let me give you just this specimen of this man's mendacity:—There is in his publication (Mr. Raphael's) this passage—mark the hypocritical candour!—'That I should not do him an injustice, it is fair that I should, in conclusion, observe, that the second sum of 1,000 l. l. l. l. 35 "2d. 'Paying in cash 350 l. l., l. l. "3d. 'And after repeated applications made to him for the balance.' Mr. Baker never made to me any such application—no person even applied to me, or had any occasion to apply to me, for any balance. This is a multitudinous falsehood." l. l. l. l. l. "I calculated that 600 l. l. "Was any part of it to be applied to the expences that had been incurred in unseating Messrs. Bruen and Kavanagh?—Not of that second 1,000 l. 36 "Was any part of the first 1,000 l "To what extent?—The election expenses were to have been defrayed in the first instance, and then the surplus of the 1,000 l. "You have stated, that the election expenses would be about 600 l. l. l. "Then there would have been a surplus of 400 l. l. l., l., omne ignotum pro magnifico, "You were examined upon your oath as a witness before that Carlow Committee; do
 37 "And upon oath?—Upon oath. "Will you tell me whether you did not give the following answer to the following question: 'We have understood that all the petitioners are shopkeepers, and men of that description?' that is the question; was this your answer: 'Yes, the petitioners are men of respectability as shopkeepers and tradesmen in Carlow?'—Yes, I should make the same answer now. "Then there is this question: 'Do they pay the expenses of this discussion, or are they indemnified against it?' This is the answer: 'I really do not exactly know that; I believe one of them has entered into a recognisance; if I mistake not, I saw his name.' Do you remember giving that answer?—I do not remember the answer, but I suppose it is the answer that I gave. "Now I beg particularly to call your attention to this third question and answer: 'Can you tell me whether they are to pay, or whether they are indemnified by anybody?' and did not you give this answer, 'I know nothing about it?' It is probable that I gave that answer; not only probable, but I take it for granted that I did, as it is in the minutes. "Now I ask you this question, did you not before that Carlow Committee represent that you had nothing to do with the expenses, you were then a witness?—Not that I know of; I do not think that I was asked the question; I only know, that I had made myself responsible to Mr. Baker, the agent, for the expenses, and if I was asked the question I should have answered it directly; the sureties are merely matter of form, and entering into recognisance I know nothing about, I was not aware of what the terms were; but J was perfectly cognisant at the time that those individuals would not have been called upon, or if they were,  pro forma, "Then how came you to state in answer to the question, 'Can you tell me whether they were to pay or whether they are indemnified by any body? I know nothing about it.'— Because I know nothing about their being called upon,  pro forma,
 Mr. Vigors  knew the fact to be, that these parties would not have to pay, and that he should have to pay; and yet, when
 38 participes criminis; "My dear Fitzgerald,—I wish I could get to Carlow. I am most anxious to be in Car-low. Will you see his Lordship the Bishop,
 39 l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l., 40 41 1. l. l., l. 1., l. l. l. 42 l. "That it appears, in the evidence reported by the Committee appointed to inquire into the circumstances under which Alexander Raphael Esq., was returned a Member for the county of Carlow, at the election in June last, that an agreement in writing was concluded between Daniel O'Connell, Esq., a Member of this House, and the said Alexander Raphael, as follows:— "Clarges-street, June 1, 1835. "MY DEAR SIR,—YOU have acceded to the terms proposed to you for the election of the county of Carlow, vis.—you are to pay before
 43 l., "I am, my dear Sir, your very faithful "DANIEL O'CONNELL." "Alexander Raphael, Esq." "That it appears that Nicholas Aylward Vigors, Esq., was cognizant of, and consenting to the said agreement, and that in pursuance thereof, the said Daniel O'Connell and the said Nicholas Aylward Vigors did endeavour to procure the return of the said Alexander Raphael as a Member to serve in Parliament for the said county of Carlow, and who was returned accordingly." "That to enter into, or consent to, such an agreement, was a high breach of the privileges of this House." "That such agreement, as aforesaid, is in violation of the Statute passed in the 49th year of King George 3rd, for preventing the giving or receiving of money on any contract or agreement to procure, or endeavour to procure, the return of any person to serve in Parliament."
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  and Mr. O'Connell rose together. Mr. Colborne gave way.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was with regret that he intruded himself upon the House at that moment; but as he intended not to be present at any more of the discussion, he felt it right to address the few words he had to offer before the matter proceeded further. He rose the more readily upon the occasion, because he had an exceedingly pleasing duty to perform in the first place, and that was to offer the meed of his most respectful, most humble, but most sincere thanks, to the Gentlemen of all parties who composed the Committee before which the charge of the hon. and learned Member for Bradford had been heard and determined. He had never seen Gentlemen attending with more care, keeping their attention more perfectly alive, or displaying more of the air of complete impartiality than those Members of the Committee did, who differed from him in general political opinions,
 44 l. 45 46 47 The Times The Morning Post 48 l. The Times. The Times The Morning Post, The Post 49
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  assured the House, that he should gladly abstain from troubling it with a single observation upon this subject, but having been compelled most reluctantly to sit upon the Committee, before which the inquiry into the hon. and learned Member for Dublin's conduct took place, he felt, that if he remained wholly silent on this occasion, it might be supposed, that he acquiesced in the observations which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Bradford. When the subject was first discussed, he felt, that there were too many on both sides of the House, who looked rather for triumph than for justice, and kept their eyes rather upon the individual accused than upon the case to be adjudged. He now felt, that when he called upon the House to affirm the resolutions of the Committee, the Committee in point of fact had but very imperfectly performed its duty. Nay, he should say, that it had grossly neglected its duty; for what should it have done? It should have made a special report, more strongly expressive of its opinion of the matter which had been under its consideration. How was the Committee formed? He thought it impossible, that one could have been more fairly constituted; and two Gentlemen of the highest legal attainments were appointed as nominees. His opinion might not be worth much on this occasion; but he had served upon many Committees, and he could confidently say, that he never saw one more determined to act fairly, more determined to lay aside all party bias, more determined to come to a decision right and just, than that which was appointed to investigate the alleged misconduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. As to the two Gentlemen who were appointed nominees, the best eulogy that he could pass upon them was, that they had on this occasion fully acted up to the high and honourable character which they had previously obtained. The Committee decided, that they would leave the conducting of the case entirely in the hands of the nominees—that they would refrain
 50 51 "Had Mr. O'Connell's name been mentioned or suggested by you before Mr. Raphael, in answer to your question of who the friend was, that he wished to consult, named Mr. O'Connell?— Mr. O'Connell's name had been mentioned, but not as the friend or negotiator; we had mentioned his name, for in fact, I had been speaking of other candidates, to whom we should most likely apply, in case of his refusing us, and in order to urge him to an immediate decision, I mentioned that there were other names, and in the course of that conversation Mr. O'Connell's name was incidentally introduced; but the proposition of leaving the settlement and completion of the treaty to Mr. O'Connell originated entirely with Mr. Raphael. "Was Mr. O'Connell mentioned in any way except as you have stated, as the person who would be in communication with others likely to become candidates, or in any other way except as referee, as you have now mentioned?—In no other way except as referee. "Did you endeavour to see Mr. O'Connell after that?—I made it a point to see him as soon as possible afterwards. "And how soon did you see him?—The same evening. "What communication did you make to Mr. O'Connell?—I mentioned the conver-
 52 "Will you be so good as to state what the terms were?—The terms were those which I proposed to Mr. Raphael—1,000 l. l. "When Mr. O'Connell was referred to, was there anything said or understood, as far as you could collect from what passed, that Mr. O'Connell was to have anything to do with the distribution of the money?—Certainly not. "To whom was Mr. O'Connell to account for the money?—He was to account to me on behalf of the liberal committee; Mr. O'Connell was but the banker in whose hands it was deposited, and to whom we were to apply as we wanted the money." "Had Mr. O'Connell anything to do with the distribution or application of that money? What was the reply?—Nothing upon earth." "Is the Committee to understand that Mr. O'Connell, in every part of this transaction was merely your agent?—I considered him, throughout the transaction, as my agent— that is, as the agent of the chairman of the committee; but as the agent of the committee, I should say more correctly—my agent merely as the chairman and organ to that committee." "Did you accept the bills for the balance for your own convenience or for Mr. O'Connell's accommodation, or for what other reason?—I received them with as much ease and satisfaction as I should have done the cash. Mr. Fitzgerald, at the same time, mentioning to me, that Mr. O'Connell had particularly desired him to say, that if I wished for cash, he would send me cash instead; I said that it was of no consequence." 53 "Are the Committee now distinctly to understand from you, that the 2,000 l. "Was the 2,000 l. 54 55 No! No!
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, that the same reason which had induced his hon. Friend opposite to take an early opportunity to address the House, also induced him to come forward at the present time. He for himself felt that in the course of this discussion something like censure was unavoidably implied, though not expressed in the terms, upon the conduct of an inquiry, on which he need not say (because it was what every Gentleman had of himself said, or would say) that he was a most reluctant Member. Indeed, not to have been reluctant would have implied the same kind of inclination to come before the observation of the public which had distinguished some individuals who had figured in the inquiry. But having stood in a judicial situation, and attended that investigation, he must say that it was not with a view of influencing the opinion of the House upon the question before them that he now addressed them. The House would take its own view of that question; but it was with a view of explaining the course which he took upon that occasion, and of calling upon the House to judge whether, after the explanation of himself and of his hon. Friend, it should think proper to pursue this subject further or not. Great as was the respect he felt for the decisions of that House, and anxious as he must be to earn and deserve its esteem upon any and every occasion, he must say, that that decision was one of comparative indifference, while he could feel satisfied with
 56 57 58 59 60 61 62
 Mr. Barnaby  said, that as a Member of the Committee, he had prepared a Report, but the hon. Chairman having also done the same thing, his Report was withdrawn. The hon. Member then read his Report, which stated that Mr. Raphael agreed to pay a sum of money to Mr. O'Connell and Mr. Vigors, upon condition that they procured him to be returned a Member; that the money was not agreed to be paid for any illegal purpose; that the money had been received; and since paid to defray the expenses of the election of Vigors and Raphael, and of opposing the petition against their return. Such he believed were the facts.
 Mr. Warburton  quite concurred in the several statements which had been made respecting the perfect unanimity of the Committee in the Report to which they had come. The first point involved in the Report, to which he wished to allude, was that which laid some stress on the general tone and tenor of the transaction between Mr. O'Connell and Mr. Raphael; and he was desirous of stating in what sense he gave his concurrence to it. He did consider that Mr. O'Connell had acted with a singular want of caution in agreeing to terms so capable of misrepresentation as the terms of the agreement were. He considered it a singular want of caution in a Gentleman of the legal profession; and in no other sense whatever did he mean to convey any censure of his conduct. So far from wishing to imply that he entertained an unfavourable opinion of it, he drew from this very fact the most signal proof of the perfect fairness and equity of the whole transaction. Would a person who intended to be guilty of any criminal or unworthy proceedings, when engaged with a person against whom he had been cautioned, and of whom he knew so little— would he, if he had intended any guile, have exposed his whole conduct to investigation and remark, by entering into a written agreement, which must have convicted him, had he contemplated any sinister intention? By all that had fallen from the hon. Member for Bradford and other hon. Members, Mr. O'Connell was completely acquitted of any improper pecuniary motive in any part of the proceeding. He did not think himself called upon, therefore,
 65 bonâ fide 66
 Lord John Russell:  Sir, I feel it incumbent upon me to state to the House, an accusation having been brought forward by one hon. Member of this House against another hon. Member, professing at the same time to set aside, by the resolutions of this House, the decision of a Select Committee. I say, Sir, I feel it incumbent upon me to state to the House my strong sense of the duty which now devolves upon it, to decide between that accuser and that Committee, and to declare, whether the resolutions of grave censure, which the former has proposed, shall be adopted, or whether the House is prepared to agree with, and to confirm, the decision of its Committee. It was for this reason that I interrupted my hon. Friend, who acted as Chairman of the Committee (Mr. Ridley Colborne) when he was about to propose the previous question, because I thought to agree to the previous question upon so grave a matter— leaving, in fact, the substance and the propriety of the course adopted by the hon. Member for Bradford, leaving the character and conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and leaving, I must say likewise, the judgment and integrity of the Committee itself at once and together in doubt and uncertainty—would be to pursue a course which it is not fitting for this House, consistently with its character, to adopt. I must say, that in the few observations which I shall feel it my duty to offer, I shall enter but little into the case, scarcely at all into the evidence given before the Committee. I shall place myself upon the ground on which I think we ought to stand—that we have appointed a Committee, of the fairness of which, at the time of its appointment, no man expressed, or could express, a doubt, that that Committee conducted its proceedings as we have heard from its Members, and from the accused party himself, with the greatest attention and deliberation, and that that Committee—as appears as well I think from the opinions recorded in their Report, as from the speeches we have heard from its Members to-night—arrived at their decision, after a very grave and anxious consideration,
 67 68 69 l. l., l. l., 70
 Mr. Williams Wynn : I rise to order, Sir. I understood the hon. Gentleman, the Chairman of the Committee, to move the previous question.
 The Speaker  understood that the hon. Member, the Chairman of the Committee, was about to move the previous question when the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) interposed, and that he then concluded his speech without doing so.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  regretted that he had interrupted the noble Lord. After what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, he had no doubt he-was mistaken.
 Lord John Russell : I have no doubt the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken. Directly my hon. Friend intimated his intention of moving the previous question, I interposed and objected to his doing so. No previous question was moved by my hon. Friend, nor has any such motion been put from the Chair.
 Mr. Law  rose, and said, I submit to you, Sir, that the motion was made by the hon. Gentleman, and seconded by the noble Lord near me (Lord Francis Egerton), and that it should be put from the Chair. [ Loud cries of" Order!"
 The Speaker : If I am in error upon the point, I very much regret it; but I certainly understood the fact to be as I have already stated it to the House. The hon. Member, the Chairman of the Committee, intimated his intention of moving the previous question. In consequence of his having done so, I regarded the conclusion of his speech attentively; but I certainly did not understand that he concluded with, any motion. If I misunderstood the hon. Gentleman I am extremely sorry for it; but this was my impression. If it be correct, the hon. Gentleman will confirm it; if incorrect, the hon. Gentleman will set me right.
 Mr. Ridley Colborne : I beg to state distinctly, Sir, that your understanding of what occurred is perfectly correct. I stated at the commencement of my speech, that I decidedly objected to the resolu-
 71
 Lord John Russell  again presented himself, but the confusion on the Opposition side of the House was so great that the noble Lord was quite unable to proceed. After a short time,
 Mr. Methuen  said, Sir, I rise to order. Hon. Members opposite are interrupting the noble Lord, without having any claim whatever upon the House. I submit to you, Sir, that this proceeding is highly irregular.
 Lord Francis Egerton  merely wished to say, that if the Speaker had misapprehended what actually occurred, he had also the bad fortune of not having a right conception of it. He certainly had been, from the beginning to the end of his speech, under the impression that the hon. Member had signified his intention of moving the previous question; and he had said—not that he seconded the motion, but that he would support it.
 Mr. Law : Sir, I rise to order. I apprehend it is open to any hon. Member to take upon himself the burthen of speaking to order. I rise to order. I distinctly heard the hon. Gentleman, who has addressed the Chair (Mr. R. Colborne), state that he intended to move the previous question. I as distinctly heard the noble Lord who has just sat down, say at the conclusion of his speech, that he intended to second it. I submit, Sir, that as one hon. Member has signified his intention of moving the previous question, and another hon. Member has spoken in support of the motion, it cannot be withdrawn without the permission of the House, and should be put from the Chair.
 Lord John Russell : The misconception was a very natural one, Sir, no doubt; but I hope it is now cleared up, and that it is distinctly understood that, in point of fact, no amendment has been put. No question having been put from the Chair, I have reserved to myself the right, and that right I mean to claim, of moving an amendment myself. I was about to state; that this Report having been drawn up as a continuous Report, and not in the form of resolutions, I cannot move that it be read as a series of resolutions, and
 72 l.
 Mr. Hardy : It may save the noble Lord some trouble if I state what I did really say—namely, that Mr. O'Connell had, on the 3rd of August, to his account, in his banker's hands, money, to the amount of 900 l. l.,
 Lord John Russell : I will endeavour to repeat the words of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and if I am again wrong he will correct me. What the hon. and learned Gentleman has now stated is, that Mr. O'Connell, having in his banker's hands 900 l. l. Loud cheers, and a cry of "No!" 73 74 75 "1st. That it is the opinion of this House, that Mr. O'Connell addressed a letter bearing date the 1st of June, 1835, to Mr. Raphael, in which an agreement for Mr. Raphael's return for the county of Carlow, for 2,000 l. "2nd. That it is the opinion of this House, that the whole tone and tenor of this letter were calculated to excite much suspicion and grave animadversion; but they must add, that upon a very careful investigation, it appeared that previous conferences and communications had taken place between Mr. Raphael, Mr. Vigors, and other persons connected with the county of Carlow, and that Mr. O'Connell was acting on this occasion at the expressed desire of Mr. Raphael and was the only medium between Mr. Raphael, and Mr. Vigors, and the political club at Carlow. "3rd. That it is the opinion of this House, that the money was paid to Mr. O'Connell's general account at his bankers in London; it was, however, advanced, the moment it was called for, to Mr. Vigors; and, though some of it was paid in bills, the discount was allowed; the amount, therefore, was available whenever wanted, and no charge of a pecuniary character can be attached to Mr. O'Connell. "4th. That it is the opinion of this House, that this money has been expended under the immediate direction of Mr. Vigors and others connected with the county of Carlow, on what may be called legal expenses, or so unavoidable that this House see no reason to question their legality, and that the balance was absorbed in defending the return of Mr. Raphael and Mr. Vigors before the Committee appointed to investigate it on the 28th of July, 1835."
 Lord Stanley  stated, that if he came down to the House with considerable difficulty and doubt as to the course which he should feel it to be his duty to pursue on the motion which had been brought forward on this subject—which had not received his acquiescence, nor, indeed, had he expressed an opinion one way or other on the subject, for nothing had been submitted to him—that difficulty and doubt had been considerably increased by the
 76 77 78 79 80 l.
 Mr. Maurice O'Connell  observed, that the petitioners did not pray for that.
 Lord Stanley  said, that he believed that the Gentlemen who were the candidates, were not the petitioners in the case. The petition, however, so far succeeded, that the Members were unseated. But who found the funds? Who found the necessary funds for the promotion of the petition? It appeared from the evidence, that the two freeholders who had been put forward as petitioners, were fictitious promoters of the case. They were mere men of straw. Mr. Vigors admitted candidly, that it never was intended that they should bear the expense of the petition. Who, then, paid the expenses? Why, the Carlow Liberal Club. After they had succeeded in unseating the Members, this club found some difficulty in getting funds to defray the expense of a future election, in consequence of the charge of the election when the hon. Member for Tralee was the candidate, and the subsequent petition. They then looked abroad for a
 81 Oh, oh! 1. no! l. l. l. l. l. l. 82 83 l., l. l. 84 Warburton: l. l. 85 86
 Lord John Russell  begged to explain, with respect to the expression, "trumpery affair," which he had made use of, and which had been alluded to by the noble Lord, that he referred to the case as it had appeared to him, after the letter of Mr. Vigors, of Nov. 3d, 1835, which had appeared in all the newspapers.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, that the House having thought fit to place him in the situation of nominee, on the part of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, during the prosecution of the inquiry before the Committee, it had created some uncertainty in his mind as to the course most proper for him to pursue upon the present occasion; whether he was under any peculiar obligation to take part in the debate, or to forbear doing so on account of the circumstance to which he had referred; but upon the best consideration he had been able to give the subject, he had concluded that the House would expect him to offer some observations upon the result of the minute and laborious inquiry into the transaction now again brought under the consideration of the House; at the same time he should think it right to forbear from voting either upon the proposition or the amendment which had been submitted, and in the propriety of that course, he knew his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Huntingdon, concurred. With the impression he had stated, as to the conduct proper for him to adopt, he begged leave to occupy the attention of the House for a short time, while he endeavoured to state the real nature of that transaction, as it appeared from the evidence produced before the Committee—remarking, by the way, that the subject had been so grossly mis-
 87 88 89 90 91 l., 92 93 94 l., l., l. l. 95 l. l. l. l. 96 l. l. l. 97 l. l. No! Yes! Read! Read! Hear! Hear! Stanley: Hear! 98 99 l. l. 100 Read the proviso. bonâ fide bonâ fide 101 l. 102 l. l. l. 103 104 l. Hear! hear! 105 l. 106 l. 107 108 109 110
 Sir Frederick Pollock  did not desire to see the banking account; he only desired to know the state of the balance at a particular time.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde , in explanation of the observations he made last night upon the conduct of Mr. Raphael in respect to the payment of the money, begged permission to read the two extracts from the evidence taken before the Committee to which he had last night referred. The following were the passages read by the hon. and learned Member:—
 "Had you any communication with Mr. Raphael soon after that petition was presented, upon the subject of the prosecution of it?—I had several. "Will you detail what passed between you and him on that subject?—I met him at various times, and explained to him the exact state in which we stood. I mentioned the nature of the petition, and the very great grounds we had to expect success. I mentioned to him that there was every probability of the seat being opened, and I referred to our previous negotiation, and told him that now was a favourable time for his uniting himself to the county, and identifying himself with the county and with the interest of the Liberal party of the county; that our cause was good at the time, but that our funds were weak; that any gentleman situated as he was, who would aid us in prosecuting that petition, if in other respects suited to us, as what we viewed him at the moment, that we would look upon him as having a claim to our support when the seat was opened. I stated to him the nature of the expenses that the petition would probably run to, and the expenses that the county would look to him to defray for that purpose, and entered generally— "You say you told him what expenses the county would expect him to defray, will you give the Committee a general statement of what you said to him upon the subject?—It was very
 123 l l., "State the substance of what he said?—He stated in general that he was disinclined to run any risk; if the seat was opened, and there was a certainty of success, that then he would come forward and meet our wishes, but he generally staled his disinclination to run any risk on the occasion. "Did he say anything on the subject of expense, or the amount of it, or in what way he estimated that?—He stated, that expense was no object to him; that in case of being returned, no expense he would consider as too great for the paramount object of his ambition; he spoke, in fact, of thousands that he would give, while I was telling him that we wanted a more moderate sum; he went far beyond me in his professions to meet our wishes. "If we were not sure of having a candidate, we should not have been very likely to go on with the petition; he gave us every reason to suppose that, in the event of success upon that petition, we should have him as a candidate, when the seat was opened. "Did you continue that petition in any degree with a view of having Mr. Raphael at the end of it as a candidate?—I should say that we certainly continued it with the expectation of his being a candidate, one of the candidates, from the encouragement which he gave us, though he would not have anything to say to us while there was a doubt; we were certain that he would come to our terms when there was a certainty."
 Sir Frederick Pollock  said, as his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Sergeant Wilde) had addressed the House, he supposed it was naturally expected that he should also do so. After, however, what had fallen from the Chair, he should have been disposed to take no part whatever in the discussion; but the resolutions proposed by the noble Lord, and the speech of his hon. and learned Friend, had left him no other course to take than that to which he now with great humility applied himself; and he respectfully claimed the indulgence of the House while he proceeded to speak of matters in which he had been personally concerned. In the outset he would state that he did not mean to vote on this question. He made that communication at once, because he thought it was the course which he, and he would say his hon. and learned
 124 125 126 127 "You have acceded to the terms proposed to you for the election of the county of Carlow—viz. you are to pay before nomination, 1,000 l., l., l 128 "Oxford, May 12,1766, "SIR,—The debts and circumstances of the city of Oxford having been laid before a Council of the City, held by order of the Mayor, on Monday the 24th of March last, and it then appearing that the city were indebted to their bond creditors in the sum of 5,670 l l This sum, no doubt, the mayor and council thought an exorbitant demand for this representation of their city, and they therefore, went on to say: The mayor and council, therefore, unanimously came to a resolution, in order to prevent all opposition, animosity, and confusion, and to extricate themselves out of their present difficulties, to apply to you and Sir Thomas Stapleton (in the first instance) far your assistance to dis-
 129 P. S. The Corporation think themselves very much obliged to you for your late generous benefaction to them, and are sorry their necessities oblige them to trouble you with this letter.— "To the hon. Robert Lee." 
 
 £. s. d. 
 Interest on bond debts 226 16 0 
 Annuities 279 10 0 
 Benefactions and charities 172 6 8 
 Fee Farm 51 0 0 
 Land-tax and quit-rent 41 18 5 
 Yearly payment to officers, &c. 81 0 0 
 Workmen's bills 50 0 0 
 £902 11 1 l s. d., l s. d. 130 "MR. MAYOR AND GENTLEMEN,—We think it incumbent on us to return you thanks, for the preference you are generously pleased to give us of purchasing your Corporation, but as we never intend to sell you, so we cannot afford the purchase. As it has been always our determined resolution, that if we could not serve our country, we would not be concerned in betraying it; while you remained independent, we thought it a peculiar honour to represent you, and had you continued in that state we should have been heartily and sincerely at your service. "ROBERT LEE; "THOMAS STAPLETON," 131 l 132 133 l 134
 Mr. Ward  said, that though it might appear presumption in him to follow the
 135 l l 136 Frederick Pollock: "No! No!" 137 138 139
 Mr. Law  said, that there were two propositions awaiting the consideration of the House. The first, that proposed by the hon. Member for Bradford, was, that it was befitting the House should consider the nature of the contract which the hon. Member for Dublin had entered into, for the sale of a seat in that House. Upon this motion being made, it was proposed by certain hon. Members to meet it by proceeding to the order of the day; but after the discussion upon that amendment had proceeded to some length, it pleased the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, to affirm that all that had taken place upon the subject had been done in error, and he was at liberty to propose as a second amendment the resolutions which, on his motion, had been put from the Chair. They had now, therefore, to discuss the question as to which side was in error. In his opinion those hon. Members who were favourable to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin would have done much better in voting for the amendment of the previous question, than in raising that brought forward by the noble Lord's resolutions. By those resolutions it was obviously made incumbent on the House to give their grave opinion upon the nature of the whole evidence taken before the Committee. The substance of the resolutions proposed by the noble Lord
 140 141 "What communication did you make to Mr. O'Connell:—I mentioned the conversation that I had had with Mr. Raphael, and I told him that I wished that he would follow it up, and I mentioned the particular terms on which I authorised him to conclude the arrangement with Mr. Raphael. "Will you be so good as to state what the terms were?—The terms were those which I had proposed to Mr. Raphael, 1,000 l l "And to what purposes were those sums to be applied?—The application of those sums were to election expenses in general, and the expenses arising out of the election; the application of the first 1,000 l l l 142 "Had there been distress alleged to arise from the persecution of persons who had voted in a particular manner?—had such a state of things existed in Carlow?—Very considerable distress had existed subsequent to the election of 1832, up to the period to which I now speak. "Had a fund been created for the relief of those persons, and did you subscribe to that fund?—A very considerable sum had been subscribed to the relief of those men." 143 144 145 * * l 146
 Sir Charles Broke Vere  said, that, in agreeing to the Report, he felt that the great principle of the decision to which the Committee might come should he as unanimously expressed as possible, and provided no dereliction of principle was the consequence, he felt that it was sufficient that that principle should be laid down even in the mildest terms possible. This was his opinion, because, as the Committee sat in a judicial capacity, he did not wish the public to suppose that any party bias whatever had influenced them in the conclusion at which they had arrived. He fully exonerated the hon. Member for Dublin from any pecuniary imputation, or of any intention to apply the money paid by Mr. Raphael to his own purposes. The Report of the Committee was divided into two parts; the first was contained in this sentence—"The Committee cannot help observing, that the whole tone and tenor of this letter was calculated to excite much suspicion and grave animadversion." The second was—"But they must add, that upon a very careful investigation, it appeared that previous conferences and communications had taken place between Mr. Raphael, Mr. Vigors, and other persons connected with the county of Carlow, and that Mr. O'Connell was acting on this occasion at the expressed desire of Mr. Raphael, and was only the medium between Mr. Raphael and Mr. Vigors, and the Political Club at Carlow." Now, the first part of the Report expressed the opinion of the Committee upon the character of the transaction, and upon the nature of the contract contained in that letter. What followed simply stated that Mr. O'Connell did not appear to be the originator of the proposition. It must be in the recollection of several hon. Members of the Committee that there was a discussion as to the mode of arranging the terms of this first part of the Report. His feeling was, then, that no more moderate expressions could possibly be used, because he thought suspicions must have arisen from the singular mode and manner in which the letter was expressed. The House could not be presumed to be governed by the Report of the Committee, and feeling that, he had joined in the Report that was made. He considered, that although, as a Member of the Committee, he was bound, as far as he could, to agree with the Report, the Members of it were free in that House
 147
 Mr. Bannerman  thought that the hon. and learned Member for Bradford wished, on this second occasion, to place the House in the same situation as that in which it stood on the night in which he first brought forward his motion for inquiry. But the hon. and learned Member had not brought forward one tittle of additional information to induce the House to adopt the course which he now suggested to it. He merely wished to inform the House, and to refresh the memory of some of the Gentlemen who sat on the Committee, as to what took place on the first day that the Committee met. The hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) proposed that a specific accusation should be brought against the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; and the hon. and learned Gentleman who acted as one of the nominees (Sir F. Pollock) was asked whether he had any accusation to make. The hon. and learned Gentleman replied in the negative. After that declaration
 148
 Sir John Yarde Buller  did not intend to trespass for more than a very few moments on the patience of the House. It was well known to many of those whom he was addressing, that his opinion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was not likely to lead him to screen that Gentleman if he thought he had been guilty of any misconduct towards the House. So strong, indeed, were his feelings with respect to the hon. and learned Gentleman that he almost felt he might have said with the noble Lord (Stanley), the Member for North Lancashire, that he was hardly a fit man to place on a Committee to try any part of that hon. and learned Gentleman's conduct; because, although he had
 149 150
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  also felt, as one of the Committee, that he was on this occasion in some degree upon his trial. It was well known that, before entering upon the inquiry, he had said, that his feelings upon the subject were hostile to Mr. O'Connell, because, from what he had learned upon the subject, he felt that that hon. and learned Gentleman would get out of this business with very great difficulty. But, at the same time, he said, that he never would refuse to discharge any public duty, and therefore he went into the Committee; and he did so, he trusted, divested of all feelings upon the subject, except an anxiety to do his duty conscientiously as a Judge, and give his opinion according to the evidence brought be-fore him. In the course of the evidence adduced, he soon came to the conclusion, that no Parliamentary or legal accusation could be supported against Mr. O'Connell. But if he had been a member of a Court of Honour on that occasion, and the question had been put to him, whether he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman, in the course of the transaction with Mr. Raphael, had infringed upon those considerations which, as a Member of that House, and as a real and true reformer and lover of the Constitution, he ought not to have done, he (Sir E. Wilmot) undoubtedly should have come to a very different conclusion. But he conceived that the Committee were acting as judges to consider only whether any Parliamentary or legal offence had been committed, and, as such, he had conscientiously come to a conclusion, which, so far from having been shaken by the speeches he had heard from the Opposition side of the House, had, in a great measure, been confirmed by them. He perfectly agreed in what had fallen from the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Bannerman). That hon. Gentleman called the attention of the Committee to the Statute of the 49th of George 3rd. It would be
 151
 Mr. Harvey  said, the House was called upon, by the hon. and learned Member for Bradford, to pronounce a sentence which was highly penal in its consequences. It was much to be deplored, that the speeches of the two learned Gentlemen who had addressed the House that night (Sir F. Pollock and Mr. Law) should not have been delivered in the presence of that great body of persons who were called upon to decide as Jurors. It was somewhat unusual, not a little inconvenient, and he thought highly un-just, that after a case had been heard, in which several parties had pleaded, that more than one-half of the Jury should crowd into the box and say—"Though we have heard nothing of the case, here we are to pronounce a verdict." The House would recollect, that when this subject was first brought under its notice, all parties concurred in deprecating the entire inadequacy of this great tribunal to adjudicate on it, and this was the greatest difficulty that presented itself amidst the conflicting feelings which pervaded that House—a House, more than any other, divided, and strongly, upon political subjects, and still more so upon the character and station of the individual whose conduct was under consideration. It was admitted by all, that, if it were practicable, nothing would be so desirable as to select twelve Gentlemen, who should be able to divest their minds so completely of all party bias, personal prejudices, and partialities, as to be competent to arrive at a conclusion upon the evidence to be submitted to them, which, when embodied in a Report, should have the sanction of their reputation, and thus secure the approbation of Parliament and of the country. Now, in what shape did this motion come? It was a two-fold issue. First of all it impeached the verdict of that Jury, and indirectly censured a body of men whom it would be impossible to surpass for high honour, clear intelligence, and strict impartiality in the judgment which they had arrived at. But, as it regarded the hon. and learned individual whose conduct was under consideration, what was the shape of the present motion? It came before the House
 152 153 l nisi prius l 154 l 155
 Mr. Williams Wynn  had heard with surprise that the Committee was on its trial, and that the House was precluded from exercising its judgment on the evidence that Committee had brought up. He was surprised to hear the assertion that it had been intended to commit the whole case to that Committee as to a jury, whose opinion was to be conclusive, and who were to apply the law of the case to the facts and pronounce authoritatively thereupon. He most distinctly denied that the House was precluded, by the terms of the appointment of that Committee, from examining into the facts adduced in evidence before it; and nothing was more common than that the House should dis-
 156 157 l
 Mr. Grote  said, it was a very remarkable circumstance that every Gentleman who had spoken on the opposite side of the House in favour of the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Bradford had, while he expressed himself favourable to the original motion, stated his determination to vote for the previous question. It appeared to him that every charge which had been excluded from the consideration of the Committee, was equally excluded from the consideration of the House. It was somewhat remarkable that hon. Gentlemen opposite, who were now so anxious to preserve the purity of election, had taken a very different course last year, when the York and Great Yarmouth cases were under discussion. The House contented itself on that occasion with pronouncing a slight censure on the parties implicated. But, if the hon. Members on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, after this decision had been arrived at, had insisted on dragging those men up again for the purpose of reconsidering the determination under which they had been acquitted, would it not have been denounced as an act of the grossest partiality, which could only have emanated from a low spiteful feeling of political hostility. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had argued at some length, that it was competent to the House to revise the decision of the Committee. He fully admitted that they had the power, but the question was, whether it was seemly, whether it was convenient, or whether it would conduce to the ends of justice, to exercise it in the present case. He would contend that, even if the majority of the House were, as he did not suppose they would, to sanction the resolutions of the hon. and learned Member for Bradford, that majority would be much more likely to be accused of having manifested political hostility than Mr. O'Connell would be to be-supposed guilty of the offences imputed to him. No Member of the Committee had been found to rise and move before that Committee, that Mr. O'Connell had been guilty of an infringement of the privileges of the House; and say what hon. Gentlemen opposite would, if the House were now to declare that he was guilty of an infringement of its privileges, its decision would, beyond all doubt, go to convict the Committee of the grossest incapacity. With respect to the disbursement of money to the distressed tenants,
 159
 Sir James Graham  said, that as the subject was nearly exhausted, and the House weary, he could assure it he was not disposed to trespass upon its attention; but on this particular question he was most anxious to state to the House the feelings that actuated him, the opinions he had formed, and the reasons for the vote which he was about to give. There was something peculiar in the appeal of the hon. Member for the City of London to the Members of that House, which rendered it desirable that he should not give a silent vote on that occasion. The hon. Member had stated, that almost every hon. Member who had spoken on the opposition side of the House, in favour of the motion of the hon. Member for Bradford, had expressed his approval of the original motion, but stated, nevertheless, his intention to vote for the amendment. He had had no communication whatever with his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Bradford as to the nature of his motion, nor had he made any suggestions as to the terms of it; for his own part he was anxious that the previous question should be adopted. He would not conceal from the House, that when the question was first brought forward, he was of opinion, not as the hon. Member for Southwark had supposed, that he had stated, that the transaction bore on the face of it conclusive evidence of corruption, but that  primâ facie, gravamen 160 161 162 l 163 l., l., 164 l., l., l "Who were liable for the expenses of that petition of May, 1835?—I considered myself responsible to Mr. Baker for those expenses. Is there any doubt about that?—Not the smallest doubt; I stated to him that I would be responsible for them. Was anybody responsible to you?—I considered that the county was responsible to me. I advanced the money on the faith that the county would repay me, but with very little hopes of it. I was perfectly aware, in the first place, that they were not able to do it; and, secondly, if they were, that I should not press them." l l l l l "Was it the distinct understanding that out of the first 1,000 l 165 l., l "Ultimately you are aware, that there being a petition, the 1,000 l., 166 167 sine spe, sine periculo, et sine timore. Omnia Romœ venalia sunt. Cheers. 168 Nisi Prius 169
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the last sentence of the right hon. Baronet bore a singular contrast to the course which he had suggested at the earlier part of his speech. If, as the right hon. Baronet had stated, this was a wholesale case of bribery and corruption, if it were a mass of iniquity, how could the right hon. Baronet reconcile that with his declared determination to give the inquiry the go-by by means of the previous question. This fallacy pervaded the whole of the speech of his right hon. Friend, and it broke out to such a portentous extent, as to take away the whole force which his argument might otherwise have. His right hon. Friend said, that he would be disposed to pass to the previous question if his noble Friend had not proposed an amendment; but what would have been the practical inference from adopting that course? Why, that the House of Commons wished to get rid of a subject as unimportant, which they had referred to the judgment of a Select Committee, which had reported on it, and which the right hon. Baronet represented as a case of great importance. Would not such a course be a censure on the body to whom the House had delegated the inquiry? Would it not compromise the honour, the integrity, and the principle, of the House itself? This, they were called upon to do, to suit the convenience of Gentlemen opposite—they were called upon to withhold their opinion on a subject which had been already inquired into and decided upon by a Committee of the House, composed of men whose integrity, intelligence, and honour, did not for a moment admit of the slightest doubt. The resolution of the Member for Bradford certainly reflected on the decision of that Committee. To show that they were so considered, he would refer to that able speech, the best yet pronounced on this subject, the most convincing—the address of the hon.
 170 171 Hear, hear. 172 173 Hear! Hear. Oh! oh! "The principal expense will be to indemnify tenants who vote against their landlords' wishes; they may want from one year to half a year's rent. The greater part will only be a loan, and will be repaid. It will not, also, be required until after the election, and will be unconnected with any previous stipulation." Read on! Read on! "The tenantry who vote for us will thus expect that the Gentlemen who compose the Local Committee should prevent their landlords from ruining them by sudden demands at periods when the Irish farmer has nothing to sell." 174 175 176 Question, question.
 Sir Robert Peel:  if the House thought it for the interests of the hon. and learned Gentleman mainly concerned, that this discussion should be adjourned, he should willingly concur in that suggestion; but he confessed he was of opinion with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that it would be most advantageous to that hon. and learned Member that the debate should be tonight brought to a conclusion. He thought there must be an unanimous wish on the part of the House that three more days should not elapse without the final settlement of the question. To pass, however, to the consideration of it; there was a mode by which it sometimes happened that hon. Gentlemen evaded the difficulties of an embarrassing question, and so far as personal feelings were concerned, he wished he could have reconciled to his sense of duty the evasion of this discussion in the manner to which he alluded—namely, by absenting himself from the debate, and declining to give his vote. But he thought the instances were rare in which a man could consistently with his public duty, abstain from being present at a discussion, or could evade the difficulty it might involve by absenting himself from it. The true course was to meet the difficulties as they occurred, and to strike the balance between conflicting obstacles, rather than to shrink from encountering them. It was his wish, upon this question, to act as nearly as he could in a judicial capacity, and he was hound therefore to state, whatever ridicule he might incur for the announcement from hon. Gentlemen opposite, that he was not a party to the motion brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Bradford. He did not see the resolution which had been moved until he read it in the votes of the House; at the same time, he did not consider that it detracted from the importance of the question that it had not originated in party feelings, but was brought forward by an independent Member of the
 177 178 179 180 gravamen 181 John Russell:
 Lord John Russell:  I must interrupt the right hon. Baronet, in order to explain that I desired the resolution to be copied, and the word "unavoidable" was copied "necessary." I did not observe this.
 Sir Robert Peel —What he contended was, that the unavoidableness or necessity of the expenses—whether one term or the other was used—was no test of their legality; and he objected to approving a resolution of the Committee which seemed to imply that the necessity of the expenses constituted a sufficient reason why their legality should not be questioned. When the noble Lord called for the opinion of the House on the transaction, he not only opened the Report of the Committee, but he opened the whole of the evidence. If the noble Lord required the House to record its opinion that the expenses were unavoidable or necessary, he imposed upon it an obligation to express its opinion of the whole transaction fully. The opinion of the House was to constitute the rule by which other people were to judge whether such expenses were legal or not; and if, on reading
 182 l l., l l., 183 Member: bonâ fide rusticus expectat: 184 Ridley Colborne Cries of "Question," 185 "Si quid novistt rectius istis Candidus imperti, si non, his utere mecum." 186
 Mr. Roebuck : [ Cries of "Question!"
 The Speaker  said, that it would hardly be necessary for him to inform hon. Members that the course now pursued was the most certain way of extending the time consumed in the debate. The business of the House would be more speedily and more decently proceeded with, if every hon. Member who rose to take a part in the de-bate were heard with patience and attention.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the question before them related to the purity of election. It was whether or not a certain set of persons were justified in raising money for the purpose of protecting voters. He had a right so to state the question. When parties said that there had been corruption, it became them to know who had made that charge, in order that they might know the sense in which the term was used. Now, he must observe, that it came from the opposite side of the House, and there sat the Tory party. The right hon. Baronet had asked them to produce an instance. He must complain of the interruption that proceeded from the hon. Member for Derbyshire. He promised not to detain them long, but how could he be supposed capable of collecting himself to state this difficult question, unless he were allowed to proceed with some regularity. He wished to bring the matter home to the parties whom he saw opposite. He wished to ask certain hon. Gentlemen whom he saw on those benches certain pertinent questions, and he would begin with the hon. Gentleman who had brought the subject forward. If not allowed to state the argument, he would hope that he should be allowed to state the question. The hon. Member for Bradford had been three or four times accused of being himself one of those who had corrupted the purity of election. Let that hon. Gentleman rise in his place and state on his honour as a Gentleman that he had not done so. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had said a great
 187
 Mr. Hardy  said, that there were several accused parties before the House. There was the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He hoped hon. Gentlemen would do him the justice to hear him; for he had been accused in a most indecorous and improper manner. Let us, exclaimed the hon. Gentleman, have justice for once from that side of the House. Let me be heard as a man who is accused falsely before you. Sir, I do not know the number of accusations that have been made against me; but I will begin with the last. Unsupported though it is by anything like evidence—unsupported though it is by anything like notice having been given to me, the hon. and learned Member for Bath has thought proper to adopt, on this occasion, that " tu quoque. tu quoque 188 dramatis personœ 189 190 participes criminis bona fide bona fide 191 l 192
 Lord Mahon  said, that if he had thought the hon. and learned Member for Bath had intended to make a mere vague charge against him, unsupported by reference to any particular case, he would have abstained from rising to answer him; but if the hon. and learned Member alluded, as he had no doubt a perfect right to do, to the evidence taken before the Hertford Election Committee, then he was prepared with an answer to the charge. The only person who made any charge whatever against him before the Committee was one voter, Russell Davies by name, who swore before the Committee, that he had offered him 10 l
 Mr. Warburton : Sir, I have but one observation to make; I dispute the matter of fact stated in the noble Lord's resolution. If I have collected the evidence properly, so far as regards the letter of Mr. O'Connell referred to in the first resolution of the hon. Member for Bradford, the understanding to which that hon. and learned Gentleman acceded to was, that the sum in question should go first towards defraying the legal expenses, and if any balance remained, that that should be applied, not to paying the expenses of a by-gone election, but the expenses of a coming contest,
 194
 Lord John Russell  said, the grounds on which I resisted the motion which has just been disposed of by the House, were, that I was ready to abide by the decision of the Committee. I found myself unable, therefore, to propose the previous question, knowing that to propose it would have been merely saying, that on a question of a very grave character, and on resolutions of a very criminatory kind, this House was not prepared to come to any decision on the subject. But having rested on the decision of the Committee, I must say, that I am not prepared to agree to a resolution, either of the kind proposed by my noble Friend, or any other which would go beyond the opinions contained in that Report. I am satisfied with that investigation. My hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, says, that he disputes the facts of the resolution which has been proposed. I make no comment upon them. Whether my hon. Friend be right or wrong I do not say; but I do say, that if the Committee agreed on those facts, and thought them material to report to the House, I conclude they would have so reported. I, therefore, am not prepared to come to a resolution which I, for one, cannot but consider as absolutely unnecessary, and I shall, therefore, take the liberty of moving, "That the other Orders of the Day be now read.
 Mr. William Williams  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it was his intention this Session to introduce any measure for effecting a reform in the Corporation of the city of London. He was induced to ask this question in consequence of the strong feeling which prevailed in the city on this subject. It was considered, that since other Corporations had been favoured with a measure of reform, there was no just cause why the city of London should be made an exception. He also begged to inquire the reason why the Report of the Municipal Corporation Commissioners with regard to the city of London had not yet been laid on the Table of the House?
 Mr. James Blackburne  said, he could probably answer the question in a more satisfactory manner to the hon. Member for Coventry. The reason why the Report was delayed was, that one of the Commissioners had been so busy in other employments, that he had not been able to undertake his share of the labour of preparing the Report; but if the noble Lord would be kind enough to spare him for two hours on three or four successive days, he had no doubt that the Report would be soon finished. ["Hear," and laughter.] The Commission had expired long ago, and nothing remained but to finish this Report, which could not be done in the absence of the Commissioner he had alluded to.
 Lord John Russell  said, that care had been taken so to frame the resolution as not to use any objectionable terms.
 Lord John Russell  said, that with respect to the recommendations of that Committee, he had certainly had them frequently before him, but he could not say that he was fully convinced of the propriety of adopting them all, for he thought some of them would cause inconvenience in the administration of justice in the metropolis. As far as he had been able to judge of the police, he had reason to be satisfied, both with that small portion which was under authority of the police Magistrates, and the larger body which was under the direction of the Commissioners of Police. At the same time he did think that many parts of the Report were worthy of consideration, and he hoped before long to give the hon. Gentleman some more definite information upon the subject.
 Lord John Russell  replied, in answer to the second question put by the hon. Member for Coventry, that he understood the Report was not yet completed. That would account for the answer he should give to the first question—namely, that until he had an opportunity of considering that Report, he could not introduce a Bill with respect to the city of London.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that about two years ago a Committee was appointed to inquire into the metropolitan police, and in their Report they recommended certain improvements involving considerable public economy; he wished to ask the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) whether it was likely that Report would be acted upon?
 Mr. Divett  said, that he had no wish to persevere in his motion against the expressed sense of the House. He was ready to admit, that he had made the motion without proper notice, and he would confess that his object in moving the resolutions was to produce the discussion that had taken place. It appeared to him that the subject was one well worthy the attention of the House. As to bringing it forward on some future occasion, there were several Members more competent to do so than he was, more especially his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, whose knowledge and experience would recommend any motion from him on
 120
 Mr. Divett  said, that in a former stage of this Bill, he had given notice that he should on this occasion move certain resolutions, with a view to put an end to the practice that at present prevailed, of hearing witnesses at the Bar of that House in support of divorce bills. He believed that on that occasion his hon. Friend, the Member for Truro, who had charge of the Bill, complained that he (Mr. Divett), in giving such a notice, was holding out a threat to the parties interested in the present case. Now, he held out no threat whatever, nor had he the slightest intention to stop the proceedings that might be going on in any particular case before the House. In moving the resolutions which he now intended to submit to the House with regard to its proceedings generally in divorce cases, he did so without having the slightest acquaintance with the parties interested in the case immediately before the House. He brought forward these resolutions because he had seen that the proceedings in divorce cases before that House were calculated to excite feelings of shame and disgust, because such proceedings appeared to him
 117 118 119
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he felt thankful to his hon. Friend for bringing this matter under the notice of the House. The hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, should recollect that his hon. Friend, when this Bill was last before them, gave notice that in the present stage of it he would propose these resolutions. He cordially concurred in the general principle laid down in them. He thought that that House was never turned into a judicial tribunal with good effect. Nothing could be more disgusting than the exhibitions which were made at the Bar of the House in Committees on such Bills—nothing could be more disgraceful to them as a Legislature than all the proceedings in such matters; he had always witnessed them with pain and regret, and it was therefore with great satisfaction that he found the matter taken up by his hon. Friend. He trusted that the subject would hereafter be brought as a general question under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Tooke  said, that the hon. Member for Exeter had, in making his proposition, disclaimed any intention of throwing any additional expense on the parties in the present case. The fact was, however, that if he persisted in his proposition, a great deal of extra expense would be thrown on the parties, who had their witnesses in town, and their counsel in attendance. He thought that a proposition of this kind should be brought forward as a general proposition, and should not have reference to any particular case. He therefore hoped that the hon. Member for Exeter would withdraw his motion.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, it would be satisfactory if the noble Lord would state whether the measure he intended to bring forward on Monday would involve any principle of appropriation, or any principle likely to be contested. As this was Friday, he thought it but just that the principle of the Bill should be stated:
 Sir Robert Peel  would take that opportunity of urging upon the noble Lord to take into his consideration the position of the Chief Commissioners of Police. When he (Sir Robert Peel) first instituted that police force, he expressly limited the salaries of the Commissioners to a very low amount, because it was an experiment. He at first intended to have appointed two, for
 122
 Sir Robert Peel  apprehended, that there was nothing then in the resolution that involved a contested principle.
 Lord Morpeth  replied, that the terms of the resolution he intended to propose was to the effect, "That it is expedient to commute the composition of Tithes upon a rent-charge upon owners of property, and to mate further provisions for the better regulation of ecclesiastical dues and revenues."
 Lord Morpeth  presented petitions in favour of an alteration of the law relating to tithes in "Ireland, from grand jurors and land owners of the counties of Mayo and Longford, and from a parish of the county of Cork.
 Mr. Bingham Baring  presented a petition from a body of the Protestant clergy of Ireland, suggesting, that Government ought to buy up tithes, and invest the money in land for the endowment of the Church.
 Viscount Morpeth  spoke to the following effect. If I rise on this occasion with anything short of that feeling of confidence and alacrity which, perhaps, ought to accompany every discharge of a public duty, it arises from the recollection that I made a similar attempt last year, and that I now renew it with the depressing consciousness of a former failure. In saying thus much, I hope I am not permitting any merely personal consideration to enter into my feelings—that it is not any individual mortification, nor any fear of undergoing labour or responsibility, or of exciting tedium in my hearers, which makes me shrink from the task I have undertaken. The naturally inherent difficulties are sufficient to account for any anxiety. I will not predict, at present, whether I can hold out any reasonable hope of being able to overcome those difficulties; but most sure I am that more than ever they join their testimony against all further delay, disappointment, or defeat. I am aware that indications to a contrary effect have not been wanting, for I find that, in the course of the present Session, a petition has been laid before the other House of Parliament (I am not certain whether we have seen it also here) coming from the clergy of the arch-diocese of Tuam, and dioceses of Ardagh, Killala, Achonry and Clonfert, stating the desire of the subscribers, with all due submission, to disabuse their Lordships from the impression that tithe composition cannot be collected in Ireland. They then detail certain circumstances connected with assessments, and proceed as follows:—"Much has been done already, much is in progress, and we have good reason to expect that by patience and perseverance, and the due execution of the law as it now stands, under the 2d and 3d William 4th., c. 119, especially under its 15th section, we may at no distant period secure the undisturbed possession of our rights, and be at peace. While we confess ourselves ignorant upon what principle of justice reduction in our income can be contemplated—while we would refuse to sanction such an extraordinary procedure by any act of ours—while no remonstrance or expostulation shall ever go from us tending to impede the progress of Parliament upon
 206 "MY LORD—The clergy of the diocese of Killaloe have heard with dismay the postponement of the Irish Tithe Bill. As vicar-general and ordinary (in the unavoidable absence of the bishop) of the diocese, it is my duty to give them every information in my power; and as I have to meet many of them
 207 "Truly may I say for them, as well as for myself, that 'hope deferred maketh the heart sick.' Our situation is pitiable in the extreme. We cannot sit down and starve; and we cannot proceed but at the hazard of our own lives, or the lives of the persons we employ. "May God of his infinite mercy behold and visit his church, and thus be pleased to direct and prosper all your consultations to the advancement of His glory, the good of His Church, the safety, honour, and welfare of our Sovereign, and his dominions." 208 209 "The sub-inspector states, in the accompanying letter, that he was prevented, by indispensable attendance with his police at an inquest, from affording protection to the Commissioner in the execution of the writs of rebellion referred to in his previous communication of the 30th March, which I forwarded from this office on the 1st instant; and he inquires if the police of other districts may be assembled for the purpose of aiding in the performance of such duties, as he deems the presence of a considerable force necessary for the preservation of the public peace. I shall inform him that his earnest endeavours should be used to prevent the shedding of blood; and that it would be better to bring together the whole constabulary of the county than incur the hazard of losing a single life by engaging in the service in question with inadequate means."
 Mr. Brownrigg,  though a most active officer, has not contrived to ingratiate himself with that portion of the Irish people, which is generally supposed to be the most favourable to the present Government, and from him the subsequent communication has been received:—
 "Tralee, March 30,1836. "SIR—I have the honour to acquaint you that I have been called on by a man named Daniel Flynn, one of four Commissioners named in certain writs of rebellion, to afford
 210 "I feel it my duty to observe, that if the entire county were to be searched, four more disreputable, drunken, or unfit individuals to be employed upon so onerous and responsible a duty, could not be found; they are, in fact, the very worst description of the common bailiff. "I will, of course, be particularly careful not to permit the police to be involved in any embarrassment by the above person.—I have, &c. J. BROWNRIGG, Sub-Inspector. "Major Millar." 211 l., 212 213 214 "Your system (it was said) tends to spoliation, to confiscation, to revolution, to murder, or, to sum up all the evils in one familiar word, to Popery. Supposing it to be fair and just that the parishes which do not contain the number of inhabitants which you have fixed upon should be suspended, still I see, with respect to the parishes to which your principle does not apply, what anomalies you still leave unremoved—what deficiencies you neglect to supply—how little interest you appear to feel in the moral efficiency of the Establishment. Here still there will be churches without Protestants, and flocks with no pastor; extended and exhausting duties, with scanty and inadequate remuneration. After you have dissevered the union of parishes, there will be some without any income at all, and others with a yearly income of 10 l. 215 "There are 670 benefices in Ireland, with Protestants of the Established Church varying in number from 50 to 500. There are 209 benefices in Ireland, with Protestants of the Established Church varying in number from 500 to 1,000; there are 242 benefices in Ireland containing more than 1,000 Protestants of the Established Church. I have thus divided the benefices of Ireland into three classes, varying with the extent of the Protestant population." "Now, take the three classes of benefices to which I have referred—assume that you are at liberty to apportion the revenue of their church according to some rule having reference to the extent of duty, and the number of the Protestant inhabitants, will any man propose a more moderate allowance than that of 200 l. l. l. * * 216 l. l. l. 217 l. l. 
 
 The clerical tithe payable to the parochial clergy may be fairly stated at £511,500 
 Remitting 30 per cent. leaves rent-charge 358,050 
 Ministers' money 10,000 
 Primate Boulter's Fund 5,000 
 Glebe lands are supposed to be worth £92,000, and after deducting £5,500 
 for rents, they will be 86,500 
 Total £459,550 
 
 For 129 benefices, containing less than 50 members of the Established Church, at £100 each, will amount to £12,900 
 For 670 benefices, varying from 50 to 500 members, at,£200 each 134,000 
 For 209 benefices, from 500 to 1,000, at £300 each 62,700 218 
 
 For 188, varying from 1,000 to 3,000, at £400 each 75,200 
 For 54, containing 3,000 and upwards, at £500 each 27,000 
 Allowing glebe to the value of £25 per annum to each of the 1,250 benefices 31,250 
 Curates 18,888 
 Total £361,938 
 Amount of Church revenue under proposed plan £459,550 
 Amount of remuneration to the clergy under proposed plan 361,938 
 Difference and surplus to be applied to other purposes £97,612 l. 219 220 221
 Sir Robert Peel . The noble Lord had concluded his clear and able speech by moving a resolution, which from its terms, and the intention with which it was submitted, did not, he apprehended, involve the House, or any part of it, in the necessity of expressing its dissent by a vote. He understood the noble Lord, and the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, to have declared on Friday, that the resolution to be submitted tonight was framed with a view of avoiding a hostile discussion. He understood the present motion as not pledging the House with respect to any principle, but merely to enable the Government to bring in the Bill, reserving to those who were unwilling to assent to its details an entire right of protesting, on a future occasion, against the change which it was proposed to effect. That being the case, it was infinitely the better course not to provoke a premature, and as it appeared to him, unavailing discussion, by entering into the consideration of all the topics embraced in the noble Lord's speech. Feeling a necessity of entering into a full discussion hereafter, he would wait or that opportunity; but
 222 Demitto auriculas ut uniquæ mentis assillus, Cum gravius dorsa subiit onus— 223 224 * l. l. l. ✶ † Ibid. vol. xxix. pp. 810, 811. 225 l. l. *
 Mr. Bingham  Baring, in reply to the allusion which had been made to him by the noble Lord, begged leave to say, that a part of his suggestions only had been adopted, and that the noble Lord had destroyed its usefulness by embodying in it a principle of his own. Ministers seemed resolved to stop all business, unless they could induce Parliament to adopt a principle which would undermine all the property of the country.
 Lord Stanley  said, that the surplus
 ✶ 226 l. l. l.
 Viscount Morpeth  replied, that for some considerable time to come there could be no surplus under this head. He and the Government with which he was associated, never could and never would be parties to its appropriation to any but religious purposes; it should be devoted, in conjunction with the sum of 50,000 l.
 Lord Stanley  proceeded to observe, that it was his intention to adopt the example set by his right hon. Friend near him, and to abstain from entering, upon the present occasion, upon the general question before the House. Of course, he retained the whole of the objections which he had so frequently and so earnestly pressed with regard to the principle of appropriation, and he would only say, that the speech he had just heard, proved to him clearly, not only that the House had adopted the principle of appropriation unnecessarily, but that the noble Lord felt himself compelled, for the purpose of creating a surplus, to do that which he was convinced the noble Lord himself believed to be an injustice and a hardship. In the opinion that it was extremely desirable to come to a final settlement of the Church question, he entirely agreed with his noble Friend; but he could not agree with those of that House who, allowing that it was practicable to make such an alteration in the law as, while it should prove generally satisfactory, would not require any Members of the Legislature to violate principles which they held to be sacred, contended that it was far from being desirable to do so, and that, no matter how useless or superfluous the adoption of the principle might prove, it was incumbent upon the Legislature to assert the right of Parliament to deal as it pleased with the surplus, or, more properly speaking, contingent surplus revenues of the Church. What, in point of fact, was the  gravamen 227 l., l. minimum l. maximum
 Lord John Russell : My noble Friend, I am quite of opinion, is ready to agree in the course of conduct suggested by the right hon. Baronet, and to allow, that upon this formal motion a discussion of the general question should not take place; but unfortunately he is unable to repress his indignation at the notion of the revenues of the Irish clergy being in any respect rendered proportionate to the duties they shall have to perform. What, in point of fact, is the grievance?—that great and dreadful grievance against which my noble Friend has protested, and to which, in terms of such combined alarm and wrath, he has called the indignation of the Commons of England? Why, simply, that a clergyman having to attend to 3,000 parishioners, should not have more than 500 l. l. l. l. 229
 Lord Stanley  did not rise to reply to any of the noble Lord's  Hotspur
 Mr. Finch  wished to know whether the surplus revenue was to be applied to the religious and moral education of the Protestant community exclusively, or of the community generally?
 Lord Morpeth : It is to be applied to the moral and religious education of all classes of the community without distinction of sect.
 Mr. F. Buxton  wished to know whether, in the event of the increase or the extension of the Protestant religion in Ireland, any provision was made for the proportionate increase of the Church Establishment?
 Lord Morpeth  replied, that power would be given to the Privy Council to meet such an event.
 Mr. Finch  asked, if he was to understand from the noble Lord's reply to the last question, that if in a parish where there were now but 300 or 400 Protestants, the number were to increase to 600 or 700, the Privy Council would be empowered to proportionally increase the number of clergy?
 Lord Morpeth : Certainly. The Privy Council will have power to make provision for such a case.
 Mr. Aglionby  suggested, that instead of the parties being obliged to apply at the Crown-office of the Court of King's Bench, Westminster, for subpoenas, the Revising Barristers, or some other authority on the spot, should be empowered to issue subpoenas; he also wished to affix a limit to the sum to be paid for the subpoenas. The charge for a subpoena out of any of the Courts of Westminster was eightpence, being a penny to the stationer for its blank form, and sevenpence for getting the subpoena passed at the Seal Office; and there was nothing in this Clause to prevent the parties being charged seven shillings, instead of sevenpence.
 Mr. Grote  did not understand why there should be any charge at all for subpœnas. All that was required was the signature of the Revising Barrister, the town-clerk, or whatever other officer should be empowered to issue it.
 The Attorney-General  was willing to consider the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth, and undertook to introduce the necessary alteration in the clause on the bringing up of the Report.
 The Attorney-General  said, that this was one of the most important Clauses of the Bill. It went to empower Revising Barristers to award costs against parties making frivolous and groundless claims to be registered, and against persons making frivolous and groundless objections to claims. He had struggled for such a provision when the Reform Bill was first under the consideration of the House, but it was declined by the noble Lord (Al-thorp) who had charge of that Bill. It could not be denied, that frivolous claims and objections had been made, and taken by parties on both sides, and therefore he anticipated there would be no objection to the Clause.
 Mr. Kemp  expressed a wish that there should be introduced a provision into the Clause, which would prevent any part of the 10 l.,
 The Attorney-General  said, he could relieve the hon. Member from any difficulty in respect to counsel, inasmuch as counsel were expressly restricted from practising before Revising Barristers. He (the Attorney-General) objected to the prevention of attornies practising, because on a question so important as the elective franchise a man had a right to employ legal assistance; and if that assistance was made necessary by groundless, and frivolous objections, the party ought to be entitled to his costs.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that a difference ought to be made between objections made to new claims, and objections taken to votes already on the register, as otherwise, under dread of costs, parties would be deterred from making claims.
 Sir James Graham  opposed the proviso. He saw no reason why there should be a distinction made between a first claim and a vote already on the register.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  was opposed to the whole Clause. He objected to any such discretion being placed in the hands of Revising Barristers—a tribunal the most unsatisfactory and incompetent that ever was established. Judging from what had been the course and practice hitherto of Revising Barristers, the result of these new powers would be, that a claim or objection which might be held to be frivolous in the county of York would be held otherwise in the county of Devon, and  vice versa.
 Mr. Aglionby  proposed an amendment to provide compensation to the Clerks of the Peace for the loss of time occasioned them by the business of registration.
 The Attorney-General  opposed the amendment. There would be no means of taxing the charges of Clerks of the Peace.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  had such a decided aversion to the introduction of Railway Bills in that House, that he would move that the present Bill be read a Second time that day six months. He objected to the Bill, that the standing orders had not been complied with, which required, that the plans of the entire line should be lodged with the Clerks of the Peace in the respective counties through which the road was intended to pass.
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  was of opinion, that it would be for the public and private interests of the parties to give this Bill a negative, and prevent it from going further. The first information he had of the Bill, was seeing in the newspapers that it had been read a first time, and an hon. Friend of his, the Member for Leicestershire, only heard of it from him (Mr. Heathcote) three days ago. There were two lines before a Committee; of those interested in one he knew nothing, but those engaged in the other proposed none of those encroachments on private rights which were contained in the Bill under consideration. The House should interfere to protect private property, and discountenance the practice of bringing country gentlemen before a Committee, at enormous expense, to protect their properties.
 Mr. O'Connell  protested before, and he would then repeat it, against the House being turned into a Committee upon private Bills, similar to that under consideration. They were nearly all in favour of the principle of railways, aware of the advantages that they would confer on the country; but the merits of each plan
 311
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  said, that the parties engaged in the success of this Bill were already before the Committee. In competing and giving their most strenuous opposition to another line, in pointing out its disadvantages, while they were extolling the merits and utility of their own—in this way, a full opportunity would be given of pointing out the best of the two lines, consequently no inconvenience could be experienced; but, on the contrary, much benefit derived from delay. Under those circumstances, he had very little difficulty in determining to vote against the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Pryme  had examined the line with the best possible attention; but so divested were the plans which he had seen of land-marks and other information, that it was impossible for a man to recognise his own property on the entire line.
 Mr. O'Brien:  I confess I am surprised at finding a question of such importance met in this way; however, as it will be impossible for me, in the present disposition of the House, to press it upon their attention, I withdraw my motion for the present. At the same time, I do protest against the system so frequently adopted, of getting rid of an inconvenient motion in this manner.
 Mr. Hume  continued: he contended, that if the present system was allowed to go on, it would be impossible that this country should govern her colonies with, satisfaction to the colonists, and credit to herself. He thought a good case was made out for demanding these papers. The hon. Member concluded by making his motion.
 Lord John Russell  expressed a hope that the motion would not be pressed. He did not think a sufficient case had been made out to induce him to agree to it.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he only rose for the purpose of assuring the hon. Gentleman who made the motion, that it was not through any want of respect to him, or the reasons which he advanced in support of it, that he should decline entering into any general discussion on that occasion. His opinion was, tat it would lead to no practical end. Neither the House nor the country were disposed to entertain a proposition of the kind. He could assure the hon. Gentleman, that if he were to enter upon the discussion of this subject at all, he could not do otherwise than use arguments relating to the Constitution of this country, the state of
 320
 Mr. Lawson  begged to congratulate the House on the alteration of the terms of the motion of the hon. Member for Gateshead. That he had been obliged to withdraw the insulting proposition, of "relieving the Bishops from their attendance in Parliament," and to substitute this more modified one, argued an improved state of religious feeling in this House and the country. Without offering any further observations, he should best record his own opinions, and test the sincerity of the hon. Member's attachment to the Church, by requesting him to add to his Resolution these words, "And that it is the opinion of this House, that on any new appointment of Bishops, their residence in their dioceses be strictly provided for; and that the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishop of London alone shall attend in the House of Lords, as Representatives of the Church, holding the proxies of the other Bishops on motions connected with ecclesiastical affairs, thereby upholding the connexion of Church and State, removing any just cause of dissatisfaction, and ensuring the efficiency of the Ecclesiastical Establishment." If this addition were made, he would support the motion; if not, he should oppose it.
 Mr. Charles Lushington  said, that though he might not himself have the fortitude to resist the wishes of the majority of the House, he could not but condemn the course adopted by the noble Lord of—again quashing a question so important to the interests of the Established Church, and so essential to the maintenance and purity of religion.
 Mr. Rippon  stated that all he would say was, that if the noble Lord or any other hon. Gentleman thought he was to be put down in this sort of way he was very much mistaken, for he could assure them that if he had the honour of a seat in the House during the next Session, he should again submit his motion.
 Mr. Rippon,  in bringing forward his motion for the exclusion of the Bishops from the House of Lords, said, it may be in the remembrance of some hon. Gentlemen, that, two years since, I brought forward a measure somewhat similar to that which I am now about to offer to the notice of the House. It was received by Lord Althorp, the then Ministerial leader, with contempt and unconcern. "If," said that noble Lord, "I thought that any besides the mover and seconder of this motion were likely to concur in it, I would state the grounds on which I oppose it." The division determined the value of
 312 313 314 315 316
 Mr. Harvey  was of opinion, that the best thing in support of this measure was, that it was the third experiment made to get rid of it. Here were two Bills, both professing to go from London to Cambridge, then from Cambridge to York, and afterwards to branch off to the north. If, therefore, they were disposed to destroy the one, they would be favouring the other, and would it not be justice that the Committee should have the competing lines before them, in order to ascertain their respective merits? The House should not run the risk of throwing out that which might be good, and countenancing that which might be bad.
 Mr. Finch  said, that in this instance the parties had expended considerable sums of money in the undertaking, and had received no intimation of an intention of being opposed. Therefore, he thought it would be better to allow the Bill to be read a second time.
 Major Handley  would also oppose the Bill, but on far different grounds from those of the gallant Member, though if he (Major Handley) were to consult his own interests, he should support it, as it would be much more convenient for him than any other line. But he thought it was full time for the House to protect the property of individuals against the speculators of the Stock Exchange. The defects of the plans lodged with the Clerks of the Peace were so great, that a man could not trace out the boundaries of his own property, and speculators were allowed to break through gentlemen's estates, parks, and gardens, and oblige them to come up from all parts of the country to pro-
 310 l. l.
 Mr. Leader,  in moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the constitution and operation of Select Vestries in the city of Bristol, presented a petition numerously signed by parishioners and rate-payers of that city, charging the Select Vestries with refusing to allow them to inspect their account-books; with making surcharges of rates upon some inhabitants to make up for the defaulters, who were in general their own political partisans, all those who were surcharged being Dissenters; with making unequal and illegal assessments, thereby depriving many persons of votes to which they were entitled; with making the collectors inconveniently press their political adversaries, and favour their friends; and with squandering the public money improperly, and for party purposes. In fact, the hon. Member said, he accused them of being self-elected, irresponsible, corrupt, and corrupting. He was sure there would be no peace in Bristol until some remedy was applied to this enormous evil. He was prepared with evidence to prove the truth of the allegations he had stated, if the House would give him an opportunity; but if they refused, he gave the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Richard Vyvyan) fail-warning that, perhaps this Session, but certainly next Session, he would introduce a Bill, either applicable to Select Vestries throughout the country, or to the case of Bristol only.
 Mr. Eaton  thought, that in justice to the promoters of the Bill, who had been subjected to heavy expense, they ought to allow it to be read a second time.
 Mr. Gillon  seconded the motion, and said, that when his hon. Friend had brought forward his motion in 1834, he had had the honour of seconding it. He did so on two grounds, both political and religious. He placed the political grounds first, because he should advert to them but slightly on the present occasion as they were not, indeed, included within the scope of the present motion. He had, however, supported that motion on political grounds, as a means of effecting a partial Reform in one branch of the Legislature, of bringing the two Houses of Parliament more into unison one with another. He had considered, that as the dignitaries of the Church had always been on the side opposed to the people, as they had ever lent their ready aid to any imposition which was to affect their comforts, or any gagging Bill which was to diminish their liberties, a more simple way was thus afforded of reforming the House of Lords by substracting from, rather than by the somewhat clumsy and inconvenient expedient of adding to their numbers. Subsequent events had somewhat tended to change his opinions, and did the question now before the House rest on no grounds but those of political expediency, he should hesitate somewhat as to the vote he should give. The other branch of the Legislature had since that period proved itself so utterly at variance with the public mind, hereditary legislation had been proved to be so vicious in practice as well as absurd in principle, that he confessed he despaired of the efficacy of any partial reforms; and
 317 318
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien : Sir, I rise according to notice, to move the Repeal of the Tax on Window Glass; and, however inconvenient it may be to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to bring forward motions of this description before he has made his financial statement, yet I consider any Member is perfectly justified in claiming that relief which he thinks is called for by any particular class of the community; besides which, Sir, I conceive myself justified in bringing forward this motion, by the example of two hon. Members who have already brought forward questions relative to the taxation of this country. Those hon. Members were doubtless influenced in the course they pursued by a conviction of the necessity that existed for extending relief to those particular portions of the community whose claims they advocate; and I own Sir, I am influenced in the motion I am about to make by the same motive, my object being to give relief to a most useful class of men, viz. the glass manufacturers; and though I will not argue this as an Irish question, I will acknowledge, that being deeply interested in the welfare of the Irish peasantry, I should be glad if the incidental consequence of the Repeal, or reduction of the duty on glass, shall be to materially improve the condition of my fellow countrymen.
 Sir Richard Vyvyan  said, that he had to present a counter-petition, which was most respectably signed, and which entirely con-
 323
 Mr. Trevor  was extremely sorry to occupy the time of hon. Members, but he thought he should ill discharge his duty if he did not stand forward to make one or two observations upon the motion. Knowing as he did the avowed opinions of the hon. mover, he was not surprised at the course he had taken. [ Question. 319
 Lord Stormont  had listened attentively to the objections raised against this projected railway by the hon. Members who had taken part in the discussion, but in his mind they were not sufficient to induce the House to throw out the Bill. He considered it his duty to press the question, and to take the sense of the House upon it.
 The Attorney General  observed, that he had a petition to present from his constituents in Edinburgh, praying for the abolition of the tax.
 Sir George Clerk  rose to order. He observed, that it was not in the power of the House to grant the prayer of this petition, and he thought that after the suggestion from the Chair, the hon. Member should not proceed with this discussion. There could be no objection to the hon. Member's presenting the petition, but it was exceedingly inconvenient to go into the discussion of an important question like this on the presentation of a petition. At all events, if the hon. Member should go into a lengthened statement on the subject, he hoped that the House would indulge those on the opposite side of the question with an opportunity of replying to him.
 The Attorney General  apprehended that the petition might be received.
 The Attorney General,  interrupting the hon. Member, said, that he had the same object in view as his hon. Friend. He deprecated, as much as possible, the continuance of this annuity tax, the existence of which was to be lamented by all who wished well to the clergy and people of Scotland. His most earnest wish was to see this tax abolished. But he thought that that object would be best promoted by having the question discussed when it was brought fully and fairly under the consideration of the House. He
 329
 The Attorney General  said, that he rose to present a petition from his constituents against this tax. He felt it due to the station he held to say, that he differed totally from the advice which the hon. Member had given to a meeting in Edinburgh. When on the hustings in Edinburgh he told his constituents that the law must be obeyed, that while the tax was the law of the land it must not be resisted, and that however much the existence of the thing was to be deprecated, yet that while it was the law it must be received with respect by all loyal subjects. While he said this he would say, that, as a sincere friend to the church of Scotland and the people of Scotland, he was most anxious to see this tax repealed. He would avoid entering upon the discussion of the general question until it was regularly brought before the House.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that he would not go at length into the subject on this occasion, when it had been so irregularly brought under the consideration of the House. He must say, that the advice which the hon. Member had given, as he avowed to the meeting in Edinburgh, was one that would not receive countenance in that House. He did not stand up to justify the policy of the house-tax in Edinburgh; on the contrary, he should be extremely glad to see some alteration in the law with respect to it, but he begged leave to say, that the clergy of Edinburgh had given their assent to the Bill which had been brought in last session, and it was rather of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite than of the clergy that those persons who would not pay their just debts ought to complain. He wished to know why the Report of the Church Commissioners had not been presented, for he believed it was ready. He thought they should be called upon to present it with as little delay as possible.
 The Attorney General  denied, that he had made any charge against them. He had only said, they neither paid to church or poor.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether, in the Bill about to be brought in by the Government for the reform of the Courts of Equity in England, it was intended to introduce a clause to prevent a practice which was not consistent with the due administration of justice—namely, that of a Judge hearing an appeal from his own decision in the Court below?
 The Attorney General  conceived that, even if he were aware of the enactments to be brought forward elsewhere on the subject referred to by his hon. and learned Friend, he doubted, before the measures were brought forward, whether he should be at liberty to disclose them. Although he disapproved as much as his hon. and learned Friend could do of the practice of appealing from a decision of the Lord Chancellor sitting in the Court of Chancery to the Lord Chancellor sitting in the House of Lords, he thought it would be very inexpedient to say, that no Judge who had determined a case should sit as a Judge in the Court of Appeal. He was of opinion, that as a member of that Court he would be very useful.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the answer of his hon. and learned Friend did not apply to the question he had put. No doubt the assistance of the Judge who decided the case might be very useful in affording information to the Court, as was the case at  Nisi Prius
 Mr. Wallace : In rising to present two petitions on this most important subject, one of which is from Mr. Councillor Russell, and the other from a large number of persons in the town of Perth, I will speak of it as a very grave subject, and eminently deserving the attention of the Legislature. I agree entirely in the description given of the annuity-tax by the learned Attorney General, and in thinking it no less scandalous than strange, that the whole of the learned profession in Edinburgh, composing the wealth and influence of that city, should have contrived to keep themselves free of a tax no less odious and oppressive than unjust, because of its unequal pressure. I am glad to see the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, has just taken his place, so that I may inquire if any plan has been devised, or any scheme is in progress, for putting an end to this cause of continual strife between the inhabitants of Edinburgh and their clergy. An end must be put to it by some means or another, and I do trust the Government will lose no time in devising some plan for this purpose. All classes of the community, Churchmen and Dissenters, are equally bent on the
 331
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose to address the House. He really felt very sorry to find, that any difficulty had been raised with reference to proceeding on this mo-
 334 335 336 l l 337 l 338 l l 339 340
 Mr. T. Bowyer  "considered the condition of the labourers to be much better than formerly." Mr. Evan David stated, "that the condition of the labourers in Glamorganshire was comparatively better than that of the farmers—that they were very well off."
 Mr. Jacob,  another witness:—
 "You state that the labourers, generally speaking, enjoy more of the luxuries of life than they did forty or fifty years ago?—Yes. "You believe, upon the whole, there has been an improvement in agriculture and in cultivation in this country?—Yes." s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s. 356 We are paying, with beer, s. d. a-week, equal to two bushels of wheat. * * 
 
 In 1816. In 1832. 
  per week.  per week. 
 s. d. s. d. 
 Spinners, 1st class 37 0 35 0 
 Ditto, 2nd and 3rd class 30 0 28 2 
 Dressers 30 0 30 6 
 Power-loom weavers 14 0 12 0 
 In 1815. In 1833. 
 Carders, 1st class 40 0 30 0 
 Ditto, 2nd class 18 6 17 9 
 Rulers 15 0 12 0 
 
 1815–19. 1828–32. Per Cent. 
 s. d. s. d. Fall. 
 Bricklayers, per day 5 1 4 9 6½ 
 Masons, per day 5 4 5 4 — 
 Plumbers, per day 5 8 5 6¼ 2¼ 
 Rise. 
 Carpenters, per day 5 3 5 6 4 357 l. s. d. l. l. "With regard to the assessed taxes, would it be any relief to you it the remainder of these were taken off horses and off windows?—Yes; it would be a relief, but not to any extent. The taxes for any windows and horses and servants, on a farm of 500 acres in Essex, are about 10 l. l. "Is there any other lax (than the Malt-tax) which presses immoderately upon the farmer:'—No, except the assessed taxes. I pay for my riding-horse 1 l. s. d., l." 358 "No tax but the Window-tax presses on the farmer, and I pay for that 4 l. "Is there any other tax that presses on the farmer?—No direct tax that I know of. "What do you pay for your assessed taxes? —A mere nothing; our direct taxes are very small. I do not pay on all the land I hold above 10 l. 359 360 That for his own part he had not such sanguine expectations from the result of the labours of the Committees now sitting in the two Houses of Parliament. He felt himself warranted in predicting that the most sure and efficacious relief of agricultural distress would be derived from the Poor-law Act; and he could state the facts upon testimony which could not be doubted, that the reduction of the poor-rates in those parts of the kingdom, which have been already brought under the operation of the Act, amounts to no less a sum than 1,500,000 l. 361 362 
 
 Amount of Taxation and Population in the United Kingdom. 
 Average population of United Kingdom. The net average produce of the Revenue of the United Kingdom in paper money. In gold at 4 l. s. d s. d Price of Wheat per quarter. Taxation per Head. 
 In Gold In bush. Of Wheat. 
 In the period— £ £ s. d.   £ s. d. 
 1817–19 6 years 20,002,926 60,667,019 55,051,754 69 10 2 15 0½ 6·30 
 1820–24 5 years 21,510,017 — 56,563,240 55 5 2 12 7 7·59 
 1825–28 4 years 22,886,563 — 55,572,129 60 2 2 8 7 6·46 
 1829–34 6 years 24,425,672 — 47,804,975 61 1 * 1 19 1½ 4·88 
 
 Decrease in the Taxation in Gold of In the Taxation in Corn. 
 Between the periods— Increase. 
 1820–24 and 1814–19 4·47 per cent. 20·48 per cent. 
 Decrease. 
 1825–28 and 1820–24 7·61 per cent. 14·89 per cent. 
 1829–34 and 1825–28 19·62 per cent. 24·45 per cent. 
 1829–34 and 1814–19 28·82 per cent. 22·54 per cent. l., l. * The Gazette, s. d., s. 363 364 l., l., l. l. l. l. 
 
 The Customs & Excise contribute 72 per cent of the whole revenue. 
 The Stamps 14 per cent 
 The Assessed and Land Taxes 9  per cent 
 The Post-office 5  per cent 
 Making the Total 100 365 d. l. l. l. l. l. * * 
 
 1. Cotton wool imported lbs. 326,875,425 
 2. Value, at 8d. per lb. £10,895,847 average 
 3. Number of spinning and weaving mills 1,200 
 5. Number of spindles used in spinning 10,041,000 
 6. Number of power-looms 100,000 
 7. Amount of capital invested—namely, 
 Of fixed capital 17,000,000 
 Of floating capital 17,000,000 
 Total capital £34,000,000 
 8. Wages paid to factory operatives 6,044,000 
 Wages hand-loom weavers 4,375,000 
 Wages calico-printers 1,170,000 
 Wages lace-workers 1,000,000 
 Wages makers of cotton hosiery 505,000 
 Wages bleachers, dyers, fustian-cutters, tools, &c 4,000,000 
 Total wages £l7,094,000 366 l., l., 
 
 9. Total value of manufactured cotton goods £34,825,586 
 10. Home consumption £14,312,000 
 Foreign ditto £20,513,000 
 11. Quantity—White or plain cottons yards 283,950,158 
 Quantity Printed or dyed 271,755,651 
 Quantity Twist and yarn lbs. 76,478,468 
 12. Number of persons employed,—namely, 
 Factory operatives 237,000 
 Hand-loom weavers 250,000 
 Calico-printers 45,000 
 Lace-makers 159,300 
 Makers of cotton-hosiery 33,000 
 Bleachers, fustian-cutters, tool and machine-makers, 100,000 
 Total number 824,300 367 l. l. l. * * 368 l. l. and the total relief since 1817 to this time:—namely, 
 
 Years. Amount. 
 £ 
 Horses.—Husbandry horses used by farmers at rents under 200 l. 1816 150,119 
 Mules under 13 hands carrying coals, ore, &c. 1816 1,156 
 Horses used by farmers, of farms under 50 l. 1816 60,461 
 Servants—Labourers in husbandry 1816 5,835 
 Horses—Horses ridden by occupiers of farms at less than 200 l. 1816 59,186 
 Horses employed in carrying coal and wood where not more than four are kept 1816 3,938 
 Horses used by bailiffs 1816 273 
 Mares kept for breeding 1819 3,593 
 Husbandry horses 1822 470,108 
 Horses drawing taxed carts exempted from lower rate of duty thereby chargeable at a reduced rate of duty on horses 1822 5,064 
 Servants.—Husbandry servants occasionally employed as domestic servants 1822 34,374 
 Carriages.—Taxed carts at the lower rate of duty 1823 9,310 
 Horses.—All horses chargeable heretofore at 3 s. 1823 4,044 
 Dogs.—Dogs kept wholly for the care of sheep by farmers at rents under 100 l. 1824 6,876 
 Horses drawing taxed carts exempted from higher rate of duty thereby chargeable at a reduced rate of duty on horses 1824 11,334 
 Houses and Windows.—Farmhouses occupied by labourers and servants retained for husbandry (by 6 Geo. 4th. c. 7. s. 36) 1824 6,866 
 Servants.—Husbandry or trade servants employed as grooms by persons assessed for carriages with less than four wheels 1824 5,076 
 Carriages.—Taxed carts at the higher rate of duty 1824 20,675 
 Horses.—Mules carrying coal, ore, &c 1825 71 
 Horses occasionally let to hire by farmers, at rents under 200 l. 1825 5,637 369 l. l. l. 
 
 Years. Amount. 
 Carriages.—Common stage carts drawn by one horse 1832 8,716 
 Servants.—Stewards, bailiffs, overseers, or managers and clerks under them 1833 10,110 
 Windows.—Windows in farmhouses 1834 35,000 
 Horses.—Husbandry horses, occasionally ridden by farmers at 500 l. 1834 10,000 
 Ditto, used occasionally for other purposes, or let occasionally on hire 1834 2,000 
 Horses used by bailiffs, shepherds, &c. 1834 2,000 
 Dogs.—Shepherds' dogs 1834 3,000 
 Fire Insurance on implements of husbandry and stock 1834 50,000 
 £985,824 
 
 In Reduced. Period. Both inclusive. 
 1816 £281,695 19 Years, viz. 1817 to 1835= £5,352,205 
 1819 3,868 l6 Years, viz. 1820 to 1835= 6l,888 
 1822 470,108 13 Years, viz. 1823 to 1835= 6,111,404 
 1823 52,792 12 Years, viz. 1824 to 1835= 633,504 
 1824 6,876 11 Years, viz. 1825 to 1835= 75,636 
 1825 49,659 10 Years, viz. 1826 to 1835= 496,500 
 1832 8,710 3 Years, viz. 1833 to 1835= 26,130 
 1833 10,110 2 Years, viz. 1834 to 1835= 20,220 
 1831 52,000 1 Years, viz. 1835= 152,000 
 £12,929,577 370 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. * l. * 
 
 England & Wales. Scotland. Great Britain. 
 Aug. 1797 * £ 970,842 £ 36,599 £ 1,027,443 
 Jan. 1806 * 6,948,908 209,749 7,158,658 
 Jan. 1815 * 13,324,502 633,950 13,958.463 
 Jan. 1824† to 1834 20,432,891 1,180,060 21,612,951 
 Jan. 1834 to 1836 3,864,768 206,182 4,070,960 
 Total in 39½ years £45,541,914 £2,266,543 £47,808,466 
 Parliamentary Papers, 204 of 1823. † Ibid. 101 of 1834 
 
 From 9th of May, 1815, to 5th of January, 1823, the amount of legacy and probate duties, in Ireland, was 315,719 
 And from 5th of January, 1823, to 5th of January, 1834 689,527 
 Total in 18 years £1,005,246 
 Ditto in 2 years 128,134 
 Ditto in 20 years (to 1836) £1,133,380 371 capital, on which these duties were charged, must have been between 25 and 30 millions sterling. 
 
 Total of the Capital paid upon, and the Amount of each Rate of Duty in Great Britain, in the 37½ years, from 1797 to 1833, both inclusive:—namely, 
 At 1 per cent £435,794,565 
 2 per cent 20,716,610 
 2½ per cent 69,613,083 
 3 per cent 216,480,913 
 4 per cent 12,322,786 
 5 per cent 33,651,661 
 6 per cent 14,365,388 
 8 per cent 11,521,650 
 10 per cent 96,439,339 
 £910,905,995 
 
 Total amount of Capital taxed, and amount of Tax, in the United Kingdom, to 1836:— 
 Capital. Duty. 
 £. £. 
 Great Britain 910,905,995 47,808,466 
 Ireland 30,000,000 1,133,380 
 United Kingdom £940,905,995 £48,941,846
 Sir John Tyrrell : Is this the French or the English Budget?
 Mr. Jervis  said, that there was so strong a feeling in the Courts against this Bill, that he must express a hope that his hon. and learned Friend would not press it He would recommend that it be referred to a Select Committee.
 Captain Pechell  could confirm the statement of his hon. Friend, the Member for Chester. The owners of Manors were much opposed to the Bill which was a direct interference with the rights of property. As he understood it would enable the tenant to satisfy the landlord's claim for a Heriot, by giving him the worst, instead of the best beasts. They held their land on the latter condition, and the Bill therefore would deprive the landlord of pecuniary-advantages, without any adequate equivalent. He should oppose the further progress of the measure.
 The Attorney-General  assured the House that the Bill did not interfere with the rights of property. The customary law of Heriots had long been considered a
 401
 Mr. Ewart  thought, as the custom varied in different places, that the Bill should not be proceeded with till further information had been obtained.
 Captain Berkeley  considered the Bill an infringement on their rights, and he should feel it his duty, if his hon. and learned Friend persevered, to move that the Bill be put off for six months.
 The Attorney-General  wished the Bill to be read a second time, that the details might be settled in Committee. The necessity of a change could not be denied, but the equivalent to be given to the landlords could not be arranged till the Bill was in Committee.
 Major Curteis  admitted, that an alteration of the laws was desirable, and perhaps some certain sum as 5 l.
 Mr. Curteis  thought, as Heriots were so great a grievance, that the landlords, like the tithe owners, should be prepared to make some sacrifice, though whether 5 l.
 Sir James Graham  was afraid that the subject had not received that consideration which it deserved. In Cumberland, and other northern counties, where copyhold property was passed by will, the custom required that a trust should be created, which was a fruitful source of litigation. That ought to be put an end to, but for that there was no provision in the Bill. In his opinion the subject ought to be referred to a Select Committee.
 Sir Robert Peel  was of opinion, that the House had not sufficient information to proceed with the Bill, particularly as to the proposed equivalent. At the same time, a strong feeling existed against Heriots, and he should willingly concur in putting an end to them without injuring the landlords.
 Mr. Baines  said, that the law at present was a complete nuisance, as in some parts of the county, on the death of the father of a family, the landlord hastened to seize the best beast, and the tenant to remove every
 402
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  agreed, that the custom ought to be put an end to, but he was afraid the subject was too intricate and too involved to be settled without a Select Committee.
 The Earl of Darlington  rose to support the motion of his noble Friend. There
 348
 Colonel Thompson  regretted that he had not obtained the attention of the House before it was tired of the subject, but if he did not say a few words he should lose caste. The pressure from without was heavy on him; and hon. Gentlemen opposite were too strongly convinced of the seriousness of that condition not to have some feeling for his case. The distress of the landed interest had been brought on by their own acts, in consequence of that just dispensation of Providence, which enacted that these who infringed on the rights of their fellow-citizens should find that, in some way or other, the mischief fell, according to the Scriptural expression, upon their own heads. Had the agriculturists not limited the commerce of their country, and cramped its manufacturing energies? How extraordinary, how marvellous, was their conduct! They came before that House, they called together the population on the hustings, and they said—"Honourable members, farmers, and farming men! —we have had everything in our own hands; we have had it all our own way; and the result is, that we and you are distressed beyond any other class" For this state they were indebted to the corn-laws. The number of farmers had been increased in the proportion of five to four, by the imposition of the taxes on corn, and the end was, that the five were in a much worse condition now, than the four had formerly been. The landlords might have raised their rents from 300 l. l., Question!
 Mr. William Duncombe  said, that having been requested to second the motion of his noble Friend, he did so, at the same time regretting that that task had not been committed to abler hands than his own; but having concurred in the motion of the noble Lord on a former occasion, representing, as he himself did, a large constituency who were suffering under the great pressure of agricultural distress, knowing that they entertained sentiments of sincere gratitude to the noble Lord for his efforts on their behalf in that House, he considered it would be a want of duty on his part if he did not accede to the request. He believed it was admitted on all hands—it was admitted by hon. Gentlemen of all parties, that the
 341 342
 Lord John Russell  said, that he rose to object to the motion which had just been made by the noble Marquess. He could not, for his own part, object to the day which the noble Lord had chosen to bring forward this motion, because this day was that on which Bills brought in by individual Members were to be considered, who were the parties with whom the interposition of the noble Lord's proposal interfered. He objected, then, not to the particular day, but to the time at which this motion was brought forward. The distress of the agricultural class had been shown by presentation of petitions, day after day, and it was noticed in the King's Speech, before the noble Lord could propound his motion for a Committee; a declaration, too, was made on the part of the Government, that it was ready to enter into the fullest inquiry on this subject. The Committee which had been appointed had made no Report, and was far from having heard all the evidence to be brought before it. Therefore the noble Lord was not quite justified in alluding to extracts and drawing deductions from part of the report which had been printed, because there could be no fair decision as to the cause and extent of agricultural distress until the whole of the evidence was heard, and the Committee had considered that evidence and submitted their conclusions
 343 344 l Chandos 345 346 l l l 347
 Lord John Russell  was very glad that a reference had been made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir G. Clerk) to the Church Commissioners. They certainly had investigated the state of the church so far as regarded Edinburgh, and he had understood the right hon. Gentleman to have said, that the Report upon that subject was ready to be sent to him (Lord J. Russell). Now, he had been informed by one of the Commissioners, that there was a question amongst them whether it would be expedient to present the Report of the city of Edinburgh, in which one part of the subject was incomplete, or whether they ought to complete that part of the inquiry and make a complete Report. They had an account of the number of churches, but they had not an account of the funds which were applicable for church purposes. The question having been addressed to him with an inclination to know his opinion, he stated that he thought the Commissioners themselves were far better judges on that subject than be was, and that it would be
 332
 Lord John Russell  having moved, that the Order of the Day be read,
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  rose to order. He submitted that this subject might be properly discussed, if a general motion were brought forward in reference to it. Let the hon. Member give notice of a motion for the repeal of the tax, and then the matter could be debated. The time for the presentation of petitions was extremely limited, and it should not be expended upon the discussion of a single petition of this nature.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  rose to order. He submitted that the hon. Member was travelling out of the subject matter of the petition for the purpose of making an attack upon the clergy.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he should not occupy the House above a few minutes, not anything like the three hours that had been occupied by the hon. Member for Middlesex, who seemed so overwhelmed by the abundance of papers which he had brought down with him, that neither himself, nor the hon. Member who arranged them for him, appeared to understand them. He would implore the noble Marquis to take the sense of the House upon this question. For himself, if only three hon. Members voted with the noble Marques he should feel it to be his duty to make one of those three.
 Mr. Cayley  said, the House was bound to give relief to the agricultural interest, as no other interest so much required relief. It was not his intention to have spoken on the motion, but from what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland. He disagreed with the observations of the right hon. Baronet, who had not, he thought, given a fair version of the evidence collected by the Agricultural Committee. The rise in the price of sonic articles, particularly cattle, was caused by scarcity alone, and meat which before Christmas was but 4½ d. s. 393
 The Speaker  would suggest to the hon. Member, that the best way was to present the petition now, and to give notice of a motion on the subject for some future day.
 The Speaker  had merely observed that its prayer did not seem to come within the legitimate jurisdiction of the House.
 The Speaker  remarked, that it was not usual to discuss petitions, unless they referred to a particular personal grievance. As far as he could gather the prayer of the present petition from the statement of the hon. Member, the petitioner prayed the House to do that which it was not in its power to do—namely, to set him at liberty.
 The Speaker,  interrupting the hon. Member, inquired whether he intended to end with a motion, as otherwise he had better at once state the prayer of the petition.
 Mr. Hume. * * 349 350 "That the agriculturists have petitioned Parliament so often, and had received so little attention, that they began to entertain but one feeling—that petitioning alone would not do. That in July last, at a meeting of that Association, a petition was agreed to, and a Resolution passed, that the members should be instructed to move that the Supplies themselves should be stopped, until his Majesty's Ministers had taken some steps to relieve the agriculturists." 351 "In his opinion it was neither the extension of the currency, nor the repeal of the malt-tax, nor the consolidation of public rates, nor the commutation of tithes, nor the diminution of poor-rates, nor the introduction of poor-laws into Ireland, nor the breaking up of the meat-trade monopoly, which would alone relieve the farmer…They must effect a change in the present system of acquiring and accumulating wealth,—a system abounding in fraud and productive of the greatest evils; and that the productive classes must be compensated for the capital which the currency measure of 1819 had been the means of unjustly abstracting from them…But (he added) that they would no longer consent to increase the spoils of the gambler on the Stock Exchange; they would no longer uphold that system which, for the last twenty years, had preyed upon the very vitals of the productive classes; and which had made the industry of the country the means of impoverishing itself, while it enriches the speculator and the capitalist." 352 "The war to which he summoned them was a war from which no good man need shrink—it was a war against injustice, poverty, and idleness—it was a war against that system which divided England into two extremes of luxurious wealth and fearful want—it was a war for the bees of the hive against those who robbed them of their honey—it was a war, though bloodless, that was to be fought on the fields of our country, and in which more laurels were to be gained with the ploughshare than had ever yet been won by the sword on the cannon-planted deck or the tented field!" "It was susceptible of clear proof, and he was now stating not merely his own opinion, but the opinion of the Cambridgeshire Association, as recorded in a letter to their chairman, that there was now 100,000,000 l. 353 "The shipping, the trading, and manufacturing interests, must also receive protection from foreign competition by the imposition of duties on foreign goods, or, if necessary, even by total prohibition; the immediate consequence of this step would be good prices, good profits, and good wages. This was the unanimous opinion of the numerous members of the Cambridgeshire Society, and they were determined that their opinion should reach the Legislature." "Do the farmers now receive accommodation as easily as they used to do?—They now get a little more accommodation, in consequence
 354 "You have no account of a deficiency of capital in agriculture in any part of the country?—No; for the agriculturist can get any money he pleases, at low interest, if he have good security." "Why he thought so?—I can only state in a general way, that I have observed that when there has been a contraction of the currency, prices have fallen, and when there has been an expansion, they have generally risen." 355 "What should you say the condition of the labourer is at present? — I consider the condition of the labourer, at present, where he has plenty of employment, is very good. "Are there many labourers out of employment?—Not a great many. Then the condition of the labourer has improved rather than not?—I think the labourer never was better off."
 Mr. Hume  observed, that as Montrose and Edinburgh were the only places in which this difference existed, it would not, in his opinion, be very difficult to get rid of it.
 Mr. Hume : Only part of the English. I have proved how the prices of every article, the produce of the land, have been kept up in favour of the landowners and I shall now show the extent to which the prices of almost every article of British manufacture, and of foreign and colonial produce, have fallen in the same period. If we divide the fifteen years into three periods, it will be found that, on the average
 Mr. Methuen  rose to order, and submitted that the hon. Member should not go on against the opinion of the Chair and the declared sense of the House.
 Mr. Gillon  earnestly hoped the House would not sanction this attempt to stifle the cries of the victims of oppression under this law. The annuity tax was a tax of six per cent. on houses, shops, &c. in Edinburgh, laid on by two Acts of the Scottish Parliament, of 1649 and 1661, but specially restricted to the support of six ministers, and to the sum of 19,000 marks, a little more than 1,000 l 328
 Mr. Gillon  said, the clergy of Edinburgh had talked much of excavating and converting the Heathen, and had even asked for a grant of money from this House for that purpose; but they were likely to have but little success in this undertaking, whilst they showed themselves rather as the wolves to prey on, than the shepherds to defend, the flocks.
 Mr. Gillon  submitted, that he was quite in order in going on with the discussion. If he were to give a notice on the subject, he would then be met by the rule as to the introduction of private Bills, this annuity tax being confined to Edinburgh and another town in Scotland, Montrose, and being collected under a private Act of Parliament.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that this attempt to stifle the voice of a victim of clerical oppression should not succeed. He appealed to the justice of the House on the part of Mr. Chapman, who was suffering from conscience sake.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that the petitioner also prayed for the abolition of the tax as un-scriptural and oppressive; and he would submit that such a prayer came perfectly within the scope of the powers of the House. He had mentioned the limitation which was imposed on the amount of this tax by the original Acts under which it was collected. In the year 1809, however, a Bill was introduced—
 Mr. Gillon  said, that the object of the
 327
 Mr. Gillon  had to present to the House the petition of Mr. Thomas Chapman, now a prisoner in the gaol of Edinburgh, at the instance of the clergy of that city, for arrears of annuity tax, which was levied there for their support. The petitioner complained of the unequal and oppressive nature of that tax, and he also objected to it upon conscientious grounds. He stated, that his conscience forbad him to contribute to the support of the clergy of a church which in its conduct violated the commands of Scripture. He stated, that the hardship in his case was aggravated by the circumstance of his being in a very delicate state of health, and he prayed the House to relieve him by setting him at liberty, and enabling him to pursue his avocations without further molestation. He (Mr. Gillon) had to state, that there was also at present imprisoned in the gaol of Edinburgh, Mr. Thomas Russell, a member of the town-council of that city, who was confined, likewise, because he refused to pay this tax. These facts furnished a specimen of the spirit with which the Edinburgh clergy endeavoured to enforce the collection of this odious imposition. The subject had excited a considerable commotion in Edinburgh, and it was one in every way worthy of the attention of the House. He would just state to the House the nature of this tax, and the results that had recently flowed from the attempt to enforce its payment. It consisted of six per cent. upon all houses and shops in the city of Edinburgh, and was levied for the support
 326 l.
 Mr. Gillon  continued.—One thing he begged to tell the House—they must either repeal this tax, or be prepared to give a grant of money to build more gaols in Edinburgh, as the one now there, large as it was, would be inadequate to contain the victims who must be incarcerated ere this tax could be levied. To the meeting which had been held in Edinburgh he had given an advice which he would here repeat, that it was only by following the example of Messrs. Russell and Chap, man, that they could hope to be relieved of this burthen, and by opposing to those extortionate demands the effectual measure of passive resistance. He supposed he should be told it was the law of the land, and that they must comply with it. He asked what bad law or oppressive tax had been got rid of without agitation? And he contended, that as this act had been surreptitiously passed, neither by the law of God nor man were the citizens of Edinburgh bound to compliance. One word as to the meeting at Edinburgh, over which he had the honour to preside. It was a very numerous meeting, a highly respectable and most orderly one; but they were one and all animated by the most calm and steady determination to get rid of this burthen.
 Sir Charles Broke Vere  observed, that if the slightest prospect of relief had been held out to the agriculturists by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the noble Marquess would not have brought forward his motion.
 Sir James Graham  was not disposed to follow the hon. Member for Middlesex through all his details, and to enter into a discussion on the present occasion as to the general merits of the corn-laws; whenever that question might be introduced he should be ready to maintain the opinion he had always entertained against the alteration of those protective laws. He was not less attached to the landed interest than the noble Marquess (Chandos) and the noble Lord the Member for Shropshire; but he endeavoured to temper his attachment with discretion. He regretted that the motion now under consideration had been brought forward on the present occasion; and he thought it his duty to recommend the noble Marquess to withdraw it; for if it was pressed to a division, he should be under the painful necessity of voting against it. He agreed with the noble Lord opposite in thinking that the discussion of the present question was premature, while a Committee of Inquiry on the subject was still sitting, and in absence of any Report from that Committee. He could not better illustrate the inconveniences likely to result from the immediate adoption by the House of any pro-position like the one submitted to it, than by stating that the evidence as yet produced before the Committee of Inquiry had produced on his mind a conviction directly opposed to the inference drawn by the noble Marquess, who considered that the evidence already proved, that since the inquiry in 1833, the condition of the agriculturist had deteriorated. Now, it appeared to him that, with the single exception of wheat, every other article of agricultural produce most valuable to the farmer had risen in price,—viz. barley, oats, beans, wool, and meal. The fall in the price of wheat might be attributed to the great increase in the amount sown, and the abundant harvest of 1834 had
 389 s. s. s. 390 l. 391 l., l. 392
 Sir Robert Peel  would not detain the House many minutes, and would confine himself entirely to the question before it. That question was, whether or not it would be advisable for the House, by a resolution passed previous to the financial statement for the year, to hold out expectations to a particular interest, that relief would or could be afforded it by any remission of taxes. Feeling the deepest interest in the maintenance of the prosperity of agriculture, believing that there were many considerations of a political and social nature involved in the question, he yet felt it to be his duty to consult its real and permanent interests; and however much he respected the motives, and valued the services of his noble friend who had brought forward the motion, if he believed it was calculated to raise expectations which he could not realize, or provoke jealousies and hostilities for which there was no countervailing advantage, the more he valued agriculture, and the more deeply he felt interested in its prosperity, the more he was bound to perform his duty to it, and to refuse his sanction to any proposition which in his view of the matter could lead to no beneficial result. And in the first place, with his views of public credit, and before he knew the amount of the surplus revenue at the disposal of Government, he should always be very backward to express any opinion as to the contingent appropriation of that surplus. He considered that the honour of this country was involved in the maintenance of public credit, and he must confess, till he knew the available surplus, he should be reluctant to discuss any question connected with its appropriation. Suppose there was a surplus of 500,000 l., 395 396 l. l. 397
 Sir William Rae  said, there were about two-thirds of the landed proprietors in Scotland Episcopalians, and as well might they object to pay tithes as might the persons object to pay the house-tax who had suffered themselves to be arrested. In the one instance the tithes were paid from the land, in the other from the houses. He hoped at the proper time to be able to satisfy the House that there was no just cause of complaint, and that the Attorney
 333
 Sir George Clerk  was anxious, as a Member of the Standing Orders Committee, to state to the House the reasons which would induce him to call on them to support the decision of the Standing Orders Committee. He believed that there never was a case in which the House had interfered with the Standing Orders Committee, unless upon the ground of preventing great public inconvenience. In the case of the Edinburgh Bridewell, the House had not suspended the Standing Order upon the application of any promoter of the Bill, but had been called on to do so by a Member of the then Government, who stated that it was most important that no time should be lost in proceeding with the Bill. He was not aware of the reason that influenced the House to interfere in the other cases that had been mentioned; but he was sure that they had been influenced
 429
 Mr. Loch  said, though this was a question of very great importance to the midland counties of England, there were many instances within his own knowledge where such interpretation had not been put upon the Standing Order. There was the Liverpool and White Church canal, in which it was within his own knowledge the plans were not considered requisite. He thought the interpretation attempted to be put on the Standing Order was extraordinary, and, therefore, he would support the motion of the hon. Member (Mr. W. Campbell).
 Mr. Palmer , as one of the Standing Orders Committee, was very desirous to have the opinion of the Chair as to whether that Committee had properly done its duty or not.
 Sir George Strickland  said, that by the Standing Orders parties were bound to deposit a plan and description of the county through which the canal proceeded, and this he believed had not been done in the present case. But there was another question before the House, viz., whether the party did show such a case of hardship as that the indulgence of the House and of the Standing Orders Committee
 430
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  was surprised that his hon. Friend, the Member for Yorkshire, should suppose the Standing Order was so clear that nobody could doubt the meaning of it, when, in fact, in the Committee upon the Standing Orders a considerable difference arose, and a division took place upon that very Standing Order. He thought that in the case of this canal the Standing Order had been distinctly complied with, and he believed that in the Committee he had moved a resolution to that effect. All that was required by the Standing Orders was that a direct line should be drawn upon those points from which the water was to be taken, and that had been done. This canal would enter the other at its highest level, and could not interfere with the rights of any person, as it would be supplied by the waste water, that would otherwise run over; and as it was waste water, which would flow when the canal was at its highest level; it could not be said that it was drawn from the springs which supplied the original canal. He conceived the projectors of the measure had done all which could be expected from them in giving notice to the parties interested in it.
 Mr. Denis O'Connor , as one of the majority who voted in the Committee of Standing Orders, wished to state his perfect concurrence in the view taken by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland. It appeared to him the parties had not complied with the rules of the House, and that it should be regarded as the extension of the original line of canal.
 Mr. Owen Rees  called in, and examined.
 "Have the goodness to inform the Committee what sum has the delivery of the eleven copies under the Copyright Act cost your House since July 1811?—I presume you mean from the date of the passing of the Act in 1814: From the nearest calculation we are enabled to make, the actual cost of the books delivered upon the whole since the passing of the Act, is about 3,000 l. "Is that the sale price, or the actual cost to you?—The actual cost to us, and the incidental expenses. Do you in this include the expense of books in which you have shares, and are managed by others, or do you mean those published by yourselves?—Only those published by ourselves. "Have you in consequence of the burthen of this delivery declined printing any works which you would otherwise have undertaken? — Yes; we have declined printing some works, particularly a work of Nondescript Plants, by Baron Humboldt, from South America; being obliged to deliver the eleven copies has always weighed very strongly with us in declining other works. "Have any books been returned to you from the libraries?—None whatever. "Have they demanded all books promiscuously printed, or have they made any selection?—Every book entered at Stationers' Hall has been sent to them. No selection has ever been made; nine copies of all books have been demanded, and eleven of all, with the exception of Novels and Music, which have not been demanded by two of the libraries. "What duty do you pay upon paper?— The duty upon paper used for printing is from twenty to twenty-five per cent on the value of the paper. "Are the English Universities exempted from the duties on paper?—They are exempted from that duty on all books printed in Latin, Greek, the Oriental, and in the Northern Languages, as well as Bibles, Testaments, and Common Prayers, printed by themselves at the Universities. "Can they therefore undersell you?—They have it in their power by not paying the duty on paper in those instances. "Have you any list of what the delivery of the eleven copies amounts to of any particular work?—I have the list of a few works. 
 
 1 Rees' Cyclopedia, royal £145 16 0 
 10 Rees' demy 810 0 0 
 11 Daniell's Coast Views 346 10 0 "Do you require any protection of Copyright for high-priced books?—That is hardly
 446 "Was it not usual before the passing of this Act for the public libraries to subscribe to, and frequently to purchase, learned and very expensive works; and did not authors calculate on the Universities as probable purchasers of the work they were about to bring forward?—They certainly have looked to the Universities as subscribers or purchasers of these books; and upon examination, I find it was the custom of some of the libraries who now claim books under the Act, to subscribe to expensive works, and that within fourteen years after the passing of the Act of Anne. "Have not some valuable books been discontinued from want of sufficient subscribers? —Yes, there have been important works which have been abandoned for want of sufficient encouragement:—among others, Rev. Mr. Boucher's Dictionary of Obsolete and Provincial Words; Dr. Murray's (the Editor of Bruce's Travels) History of Languages; Translations of Matthew Paris and other Latin Historians. (William of Malmesbury only published. One more has been translated, but not published.) An extensive British Biography, arranged in periods. A considerable portion of this work has been written by some of the first writers of the present day. The collected works of Sir Isaac Newton; Hearne's (the Antiquary) Works; Collections of the Irish Historians; Bowden's Translation of the Doomsday-Book, after the Translation was finished, and one volume and a-half printed. "Would you have preferred abandoning the Copyright to giving the eleven copies?— In most instances of expensive books we would do it, particularly in books of limited numbers. "At the time the Copyright Act of 1814 passed, did you understand it would include a demand for the reprints of old books?—We certainly did not expect it. "In point of fact, according to the Act in 1814 having been passed, have you not been obliged to deliver some very expensive works of old English Literature, which otherwise would not have been demandable?—We have. "Has not that demand had an effect, among other reasons, of inducing you not to embark in other reprints of the same nature? —It has. "Are not many of those prints verbatim reprints of works already in the respectable libraries, or some of them?—They are. "Can you state the peculiar injury to you in that series of publications, in consequence of the delivery of the eleven copies?—I believe not above one of that series of Chronicles was published after the passing of the Act; it would have been very heavy had they been, published subsequently to the Act. "Do you consider the tax of the eleven
 447 "You were concerned in the reprint of Holinshed and other Chronicles of English History?—I had the direction of that publication."
 Mr. Richard Taylor  called in, and examined.
 "What would be the price of press-work and paper for eleven copies of an 8vo. work of thirty sheets, or 480 pages?—Eleven copies of an 8vo. work of thirty sheets, the press-work and paper only, not including the composition, would cost from 7 l. s. d. l., "What would be the price of press-work and paper for eleven copies of a 4to. volume of eighty sheets, and what would it sell for, supposing the volume to contain from 500 to 600 pages?—The price of press-work and paper for eleven copies of such a volume, which would contain 640 pages, would be about 36 l. "Would not the public libraries be the subscribers upon whom you would most naturally depend, if the Act of 1814 had not passed?— Certainly, works of that kind, and such other works as I have mentioned, must depend principally upon the public libraries for their sale. "Had you not an ancestor eminent for Biblical learning?—Dr. John Taylor, author of the Hebrew Concordance, and I was about to mention, with the leave of the Committee, that to that work, which I believe was published about 1750, almost all these libraries subscribed. I see, among the list of subscribers for that work, the College of Christ Church, Oxford; Exeter College; Caius College; St. John's College; the University Library; St. Peter's; Queen's; Corpus Christi, and Trinity. The very Rev., the Principal of the University of Edinburgh; the Bursar of Trinity College, Dublin; and the University of Glasgow, who subscribed to it for the use of their libraries; The University of Glasgow not only did not take a copy of this book without payment, but also sent him the degree of Doctor of Divinity, by the hands of the Divinity Professor, who was going to England. "Do you think, that the knowledge on the part of the public libraries of the different Colleges of Cambridge and Oxford, that each of them are entitled to a copy of every work; and that, therefore, such works must appear as soon as published, has a tendency in the first instance to prevent the libraries in private Colleges from purchasing these works, knowing that they would be deposited in the University library by the compulsory operation of the law?—I think it has that tendency; and I know a very strong case in point,
 448
 Mr. John Clark  called in, and examined.
 "Have you lately declined the publication of any law books, with the improvement of notes?—I have. "What are they?—One of them was Mr. Anstruther's Reports. "Any others?—Not immediately that I recollect. I have made reprints of law books, without the addition of notes or improvements. "Why did you decline the publication of them with improvements?—Because, if I had added the notes, I should have been necessarily obliged to deliver the eleven copies to the public libraries. "If you merely published the reprint of any book, without additions or improvements, you would not be liable to deliver the copies to the Universities?—I should not, having delivered them before. "Should you decline republishing a book with notes for that reason?—I should, in some instances. "Would this be the only ground upon which you would decline the addition of the notes?—Certainly, in small impressions. "Are there any other law books, which the delivery of the eleven copies would deter you from publishing?—Yes, there are others; but I should wish to decline naming them, for being only in embryo, something may turn up at a future period. "But they are works that you should conceive would be injured by the delivery of the eleven copies?—Yes. "How does the delivery of the eleven copies operate upon the smaller editions of your law
 449 "What effect had the delivery of the eleven copies upon the printing of Mr. Hatsell's Parliamentary Precedents?—After deducting the expenses attaching to the publication, and if all sold, the balance of 52 l. s. d. l. s. d., l. s. d. "You mean on the whole impression?—Yes. "Supposing the whole impression sold, the whole impression would have produced 52 l. s. l. l. s. d. l. s.; "What is the price of paper in France?— The printing demy of a thick quality, sells in France at seventeen francs and a half, or 14 s. d. s. s. d. "What is the price of a similar paper in England?—From 32 s. s.
 Mr. A. Johnston  said, that he should oppose the bringing up the Report on this Bill, which went to take away from the members of the College of Justice in Edinburgh privileges which had been confirmed to them by many Acts of Parliament, both Scotch and British, during the last 300 years, and which had been solemnly sanctioned by a decision of the courts of law in 1790. The law incorporations of Edinburgh were ready to wave their privileges on the condition that the whole subject was brought fully before the House, instead of being thus introduced in detail, and that the question of the annuity tax was finally determined. The Faculty of Advocates had, in 1834, proposed to abandon their exemption from taxation on condition that the tax should be extended to all persons paying a rental of 10 l. 433 l.
 The Attorney General  protested against the grounds upon which this Bill was opposed. About the year 1698 a Bill was passed for the purpose of raising poor-rates in the city of Edinburgh, which were then very inconsiderable, and the members of the College of Justice, consisting of the judges, the advocates, the attornies, the solicitors, all the clerks, and all the officers connected with the courts— certainly a most honourable body—contrived to have a clause introduced exempting them from contributing to the support of the poor. Several successive Bills had been passed for the relief of the poor in Edinburgh, in each of which they contrived to have the same clause inserted. He imputed nothing to the Faculty of Advocates, and notwithstanding the zeal of the hon. Member for St. Andrew's, he could inform him that a very large portion of them were favourable to this Bill; they thought, in fact, that they were placed in a disgraceful position, and were anxious to be removed from it. There were 600 persons in Edinburgh, who called themselves members of the College of Justice, who would not contribute one shilling, although their servants and domestics were frequently supported out of that fund. The exemption, therefore, was entirely one of a personal nature. It was said, wait until every thing could be settled together. But what, he would ask, had the collecting of an annuity-tax for the maintenance of the clergy to do with the relief of the poor? In his opinion nothing. Under these circumstances, he hoped the motion of the hon. Member for St. Andrew's would meet with no sympathy from that House.
 Sir George Clerk  conceived, although this was a private Bill, that it involved a great public principle, and ought to receive the deliberate attention of the House. They were called upon to consider, as had been yesterday gravely asserted, whether, in these enlightened days, a measure of general utility was to supersede one of vested interests; but he at
 434
 Mr. Robert Steuart  had heard with surprise the arguments of the hon. Member for St. Andrew's in support of his amendment, and the only one he had used in favour of exemption was the very expensive education which those persons who were exempt had to receive. The House, however, should not infer there from, that any portion of that expense went for the support of the clergy, or for the support of the poor, but went to establish a fund for their own benefit. He really thought it exceedingly unjust that the most influential body in the city of Edinburgh should be totally exempt from contributing to the relief of the poor and the support of the clergy. If the annuity-tax, which bore so hardly upon some, were divided amongst all classes of the community, those on whom it now pressed would be relieved one-fifth. Even supposing there was some ground of objection to the annuity-tax, what reason could they have for continuing their exemption to poor-rates? That he conceived to be one of the strongest parts of the case, and all the present Bill proposed doing, was, to remove abuses, which the hon. Baronet called vested rights.
 Mr. Pringle  called the attention of the House to the fact, that the College of Justice had not been dealt quite fairly by, as the Lord-Advocate had not brought forward his promised measure respecting the annuity-tax, while the exemption from payment to the poor only was attacked. If both were introduced, the members of the College of Justice were quite ready to relinquish any advantage they at present enjoyed, for the benefit of their fellow-citizens, and without any pecuniary compensation.
 The Lord Advocate  stated, that, as a member of the College of Justice, whose privileges were the subject of discussion, he begged to say a few words. If those privileges could be defended on any just or equitable principle, no Member of the House would be more zealous, and he believed few more interested than he was to defend them. The question relative to those privileges was, whether the Judges, Advocates, Writers to the Signet, Solicitors, and Officers of Court, should be exempted from contributing towards the support of the poor, along with the other citizens of Edinburgh, who were taxed for that purpose. He had not been able to discover any fair or reasonable ground on
 436 437
 Lord John Russell  certainly could imagine peculiar circumstances in which that House would feel it to be their duty, in an extreme case, to call upon the Coroner to produce his notes of the proceedings; but he submitted that, without some very grievous case of this kind, it was inexpedient for the House to call a Coroner before them to give up his notes of evidence, in order that the House might read such evidence taken before a legal tribunal. He presumed that the evidence which had been given on the occasions to which this motion had reference had been fairly given, for the hon. Gentleman had said nothing to the contrary; and perhaps he was the only Member in the House who could, from a knowledge of the subject, say that the evidence, as it affected the medical practitioners, was unsatisfactory. He thought it would be very imprudent if the House were to interfere with the administration of ordinary justice so far as to call for evidence. Now, supposing that the evidence of the medical men (although the hon. Member had certainly not said so) had not been given with a sufficient knowledge of the principles of surgery, still the Coroner's Jury's verdict was not conclusive; and supposing the case of a Coroner's verdict of wilful murder, or no murder, or accidental death, it was always competent for persons to bring it before the tribunals of this country. He trusted that the House would refuse to accede to the motion.
 Mr. Wakley  had no personal motive in
 440
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that though it appeared the hon. Gentleman's motion would not only deprive the colleges and other institutions of the right to get copies, but even of any conpensation for this deprivation, he should not oppose the first introduction of the Bill, and would wait to see, at a subsequent step whether any funds were to be provided by the country for the purchase of these works. It was nonsense to say that the present law operated as a discouragement to literature. The undoubted fact was, that it was a great stimulus to the literature of the country to place in the public institutions copies of new works, which all might read and know the value of; and, by knowing their value,
 461 l.
 Mr. William Daniel  called in, and examined.
 "Has the Act, directing the delivery of eleven copies to the public libraries, had any effect upon any publications which you have made, or which you had intended to make?— Checking many. "Will you be so good as to state what effect it had upon you individually?—It has prevented the continuation of a large folio work, entitled 'Oriental Scenery.' It has prevented also a reduced edition of an African work; another of Ceylon. 'A series of Scenes and Figures illustrative of the Customs of India, and of Persons and Animals peculiar to that Country.' I believe those are the chief works which the Act has checked me in proceeding with. "What do you apprehend to be the actual expense of the eleven copies which you have delivered to the public libraries?—There are two publications which have been published since the Act of 1814, the one entitled ' The Coast of Great Britain,' of which the cost of the eleven copies amounted to seventy-seven guineas; the other a reduced edition from the large 'Oriental Scenery,' the cost of the eleven copies amounted to 218 l.; "Previous to the passing of the Act, it answered your purpose to go on with the publication, but since you have discontinued it?—Yes, I have. 451 "Each copy, after the paper and the plate have been prepared, before it is in that state which the public libraries would have required of you upon each volume, would come to a great deal of money?—It would come to from 10 l. l.
 Mr. William Bernard Cooke  called in and examined.
 "The Committee understand you are an engraver and publisher?—I am. "Are you not publishing a work upon the Ruins of Pompeii?—I am. "What would be the price of a complete copy of that work?—A complete copy would be sixteen guineas, and the price of the copies, upon India paper, thirty-two guineas. "Is that the retail price?—Yes; the retail price to the public. "Then what will be the amount of eleven copies at the retail price?—201 l. s.; "What would be the amount of eleven copies at the trade price?—161 l. s. "Which of those prices would you lose by delivery of the eleven copies?—As publisher, I should lose the 201 l. s., "If the Act of 1814 had not passed, should you have expected any of the libraries to have been subscribers to the work?—I certainly should; because the British Museum had purchased the first edition of the 'Thames,' and have discontinued purchasing any other works since. "What other works of this sort do you mean to publish?—I am also publishing a work called the 'Thames,' and a work of 'The Southern Coast of England,' from drawings by Turner. "How will the delivery affect you upon them?—The loss sustained by delivering the 'Thames' will be 88 l. s.; l. "Has the delivery of the eleven copies, in your opinion, operated to discourage such publications?—Most certainly. "Had you any hesitation in undertaking the work of Pompeii?—I certainly had, in consequence of those eleven copies. "The liability of the demand of the eleven copies seriously entered into your mind, when you made the calculation, whether you should or should not undertake that work?—It certainly did. "Do you think that the delivery of eleven copies of a very expensive work, of which a small number will be printed, would operate as a prohibition to the undertaking such a work?—That is my decided opinion; I have perfected two great works, which are now put by on that account, having even engraved a few of the plates, which is a great loss to me.
 Mr. Joseph Harding  called in, and examined,
 452 "Are you at present engaged in the publication of any works of considerable expense?. —Yes. "What works are you publishing of that description?—We are publishing an edition of Dugdale's Monasticon Anglicanum, in four or five folio volumes; Dugdale's History of St. Paul's Cathedral; Portraits of Illustrious Personages of Great Britain, in two folio volumes, with 120 Portraits and Memoirs; Ormerod's History of Cheshire; Wood's Athenæ Oxonienses, in six volumes, quarto; they are the principal works we are publishing at this time. "What will the delivery of eleven copies of these works amount to?—The delivery of eleven copies of these works will amount to 2,198 l. s. "Have you a list of them, stating the amount of each separately?—Eleven copies of Dugdale's Monasticon Anglicanum will be an absolute loss of 819 l.; l.; l.; l. s. l. s.; l. s. "What loss was sustained by the delivery of eleven extra copies of Mr. Ruding's 'History of Coinage'?—The loss upon eleven copies of Ruding's 'History of Coinage,' amounted to 154 l.; l. l. "Can you state the comparative prices of English books printed in London, and the same works printed abroad?—I have the prices of some English books printed on the Continent, which may throw light upon that question:—Gibbon's Miscellaneous Works, with his Memoirs, printed at Basle, in seven volumes, octavo, are sold retail for twenty-five francs, which in English money amounts to about a guinea; the price of the London edition of the same book, in five volumes, octavo, is 3 /. s. l. s.; "What is the price of Lord Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, taking with you that the book belongs to the University of Oxford, and cannot be printed by any other than the
 453 l. s. d. l. s. "Have you declined publishing any works from the pressure of delivering eleven copies, besides Mr. Ruding's 'History of the Coinage?'—Yes, we have. "Is there any inconvenience in stating what they are?—We have declined republishing Alexander Barclay's 'Ship of Fools,' a folio volume of great rarity and high price. Our probable demand would not have been more than for 100 copies, at the price of twelve guineas each. The delivery of eleven copies to the public libraries decided us against entering into the speculation. There is another work which we have declined printing, materially from the pressure of the eleven copies, which is a work of great value: it is 'A Series of Views relating to the Architectural Antiquities of Normandy,' by Mr. Cotman of Yarmouth; it is a work peculiarly interesting to antiquaries and to architects, but to few other classes of society; it relates to the Architectural Antiquities of Normandy. "The Committee understand that you were the undertakers of the reprint of that very important old work of English poetry, called, "The Mirror for Magistrates," which was printed in three volumes quarto?—Yes, we were. "Was not the loss of eleven copies upon that work a very considerable loss?—It was a loss of 110 guineas; and we should not have been able to have supplied the copies to the public libraries if the work had not been five or six years printing, in consequence of which some of the subscribers had declined."
 Mr. Charles Stothard  called in and examined.
 "You are publishing the Monumental Effigies of Great Britain?—Yes. "The price is twenty-eight guineas the large paper, and twenty guineas the small?—Yes. "Do you publish the work on your own account?—Certainly, 454 "Do you conceive that the delivery of the eleven copies to the public libraries is a great grievance?—A very great one indeed; for I believe, that if I had known it when I commenced the work, I should not have begun it."
 Samuel Lysons, Esq.,  called in, and examined.
 "For twenty-five years I have been preparing for publication an extensive work on. the Roman Antiquities of England, entitled, "Reliquiæ Britannicæ-Romanæ," consisting of more than one hundred and sixty plates in folio, many of them forty inches by twenty-three, on which work I have already expended 6,000 l.  "The discovery of these Roman Antiquities has cost you many years labour and attention? —A period of twenty-five years. "The Committee would presume that you feel it to be impossible that anything like the same interest would attach to these plates without the explanation of letter-press to each plate?—Certainly not; I intend hereafter to print some letter-press, probably on the Continent, and import it. "Which letter-press you would otherwise have printed in this country?—Yes, with the work. "
 Thomas Platt, Esq.  called in, and examined.
 "Are you one of the trustees under Dr. Sibthorp's will?—One of the executors. "Are there any instructions in his will relative to the publication of the Flora Græca?— There are as to the mode in which the work was to be published. He devised an estate to the University of Oxford, upon trust, that the rents should be applied, first, in the publication of two works, to be intituled 'Flora Græca,' and 'Prodomus Flora Græcia' the Flora Græca to consist of ten folio volumes, each volume to consist of 100 coloured plates, to be coloured from a collection of drawings which he had caused to be made for the purpose, and which he afterwards gives to the University of Oxford; and, these two works being completed and published, he directs the rents to be applied in the establishment of a Professorship of Rural Economy, 200 l. "As the estate has hitherto produced not more than 200 l. "According to your experience in the publication of this work of Dr. Sibthorp, do you not conceive that the gratuitous delivery of eleven copies would render any work of that magnitude entirely impossible to be published by any individual, with expectation of covering his expenses?—Yes, I do verily believe it; a work of half that value I should consider it impossible to publish; the right of exacting eleven copies appears to me an extinguisher upon splendid and expensive works."
 Mr. Thomas Fisher  called in, and examined.
 "You have a work in hand, of which a certain limited number were subscribed for, concerning some ancient paintings and charters at Stratford-upon-Avon?—I have. "The price being twelve and eight guineas? —Yes. "You have been seven years employed in the execution of that work?—The drawings were made in the year 1804; they were executed in polyautographic (a mode of printing from tablets of stone), between that and in 1807, when the first part was published, consisting of a title, and eight coloured prints from ancient paintings; the second part came out above two years afterwards, consisting of seven prints from paintings, and two copper-plates; the third part was published in 1812, consisting of one double plate of a painting, and other plates (copper) to the amount of fourteen, with one sheet of letter-press. The
 456 "Was this work so commenced by you, discontinued in consequence of the decision subjecting you to the delivery of eleven copies?— Yes; printing any work of the polyautographic press; conceiving that mode of printing to be but little understood, may I be at liberty to explain it to the honourable Committee. Instead of copper-plates or types, a tablet of stone is produced by the polyautographic printer, with steel pens and a prepared ink; a drawing is made upon the stone which he takes away, and has a method of fixing the drawing, so as to produce or strike off any number of copies. The number upon which I determined for my work was 120; the stone was then cleaned and brought again, and I proceeded with the second, and so on through the series of plates; my fixed number was 120 impressions. "You were, therefore, unable to continue your work to your subscribers, in consequence of being liable to this demand?—In consequence of but having 120 copies of each polyautographic print, when I found by a decision in the Court of King's Bench that I was liable to eleven actions at law for the recovery of eleven copies by eleven privileged libraries, I conceived it would be impossible for me to comply with that demand, and I discontinued the work."
 Mr. Brooke  called in, and examined.
 "What is your line of business?—Printing and publishing. "In what peculiar line?—Peculiarly in the law line. "Have you experienced any inconvenience or injury from the provisions of the Copyright Act?—I am very much aggrieved by the necessity of delivering eleven copies of the works which I publish, principally law works, on which it falls very hard. "In what manner do you conceive law works are particularly affected by the delivery of the eleven copies?—The temporary nature of their matter makes it necessary to confine their editions to a comparatively small number of copies, and the expenses of printing and editing are so great, that the deduction of eleven copies is a very serious evil, as attaching to every new edition."
 Mr. Robert Harding Evans  called in, and examined.
 "In very expensive works, particularly of scientific illustration, can you speak to the operation of the Act of 1814?—I conceive it to be a very heavy and very grievous imposition upon the bookseller, and such as is not levied by any other country in Europe. "Have you found from your own experience,
 457 "But can you specify any instance in which this Act has effected this discouragement of which you are speaking; has it in your opinion, operated to prevent the publication of any literary work which would be useful to the public?—Certainly, it has prevented the printing and publishing of several editions of the Classics, which were about to be printed at the time the Act passed, but which were laid aside by the booksellers in consequence. "Is it not the Copyright in that work so annotated upon; and can any body reprint that book with these notes?—No; but still we are obliged to give the eleven copies to the public libraries, where an old book is reprinted, even though there be no addition in the shape of notes or observations; suppose, for instance, I were to reprint the Universal History, although, I believe, that every one of the persons now entitled to claim it, have a copy in their possession, yet, though I might print it without an iota of addition, I must give eleven copies to the public libraries, notwithstanding they were, in fact, only duplicates of those already in their possession. With the exception of one of the Scotch Universities, the public libraries have universally exacted even novels; that university, to which I allude, certainly does not take novels. "In those reprints, had the law stood as it now does, would you have conceived the demanded eleven copies as a great grievance?— Certainly; I myself printed a copy of Hackluyt's Voyages, and we only printed 250 copies, and I certainly conceived, that the public libraries were likely to be purchasers of that, and I had been asked before I went to press with the work, whether I should have printed it if I had the eleven copies to deliver; most probably I should not have printed it, nor published it. "What is the price of that book?—Fifteen guineas; and the eleven copies were demanded just prior to the Act. "What was the price of the 250 copies?— 3,750 l. "What was the price of the eleven copies? —The price of the eleven copies was 165 guineas." 458 l. l.; l., "Resolved—That it is the opinion of this Committee, that it is desirable that so much of the Copyright Act as requires the gratuitous delivery of every work should be repealed, except in so far as relates to the British Museum, and that it is desirable that a fixed allowance, in lieu thereof, should be granted to such of the other libraries as may be thought expedient." 459 460
 Mr. Lefroy  was satisfied that he should best consult the interest of the university he had the honour to represent, by stating that whatever plan would most conduce to the benefit of literature in general would
 463
 Mr. Pryme  was in favour of the motion. Having held an office connected with the library of the University of Cambridge, he could speak with some authority upon the question, as far as it related to that particular place. He had been assured by the librarian of that University, they had a great many books transmitted to them which were not worth a place in the library, and that many works of great value never reached them until a very long period after the time of their publication.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  hoped, which he feared would not be the case, that the noble Viscount would introduce into the Grand Jury system of Ireland something of the principle of representation. He trusted the hon. Member for Middlesex would, when the question should again be brought forward, apply his attention to the consideration of the propriety of letting the people have a voice in the appointment of Irish Grand Juries.
 Sir George Clerk  opposed the motion. He had great doubts whether a change in the present system of licensing public houses in Scotland would either be useful or advantageous to the people of that country.
 Mr. Wallace  supported the motion. He said, that the system of licensing in Scotland required not alone revision but alteration, inasmuch as licences were generally granted not for good character but for political partizanship. The hon. Member instanced a case in which an individual was refused a licence by the Magistrates in his (Mr. Wallace's) county, not because he was not a good character, for that point was satisfactorily settled by the certificate of Sir John Maxwell to that effect, but because he was of a liberal way of thinking in political matters.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if he felt it his duty to object to the proposition at the present moment, it was not from any indifference to the importance of the question itself, but because this was not the fit time at which to submit it to the House. A Select Committee had been appointed, to whom all these matters had been referred, and it would be better to have the evidence taken before them, as well as their observations upon it, before any decisive course was taken. The question was one of importance, and not to be dealt with lightly. The present proposition would give to the Government greater power over the capital of the country, than he at present thought the House would or ought to confer. He was as anxious as any man to separate the interests of the stock-broker from those of the engineer, and the work from the jobbing; but at present he hoped the hon. Member would withdraw his Motion.
 Mr. Robert Baldwin  called in, and examined.
 "What is the value of books delivered by your house, since the passing of the Act?— The amount of the books delivered by us to the public libraries exceeds 1,000 l. "In the demand made by the public libraries to the bookseller, has any regard been paid either to the utility of the respective books demanded, or to the books previously delivered by the publisher?—None at all; they have been taken indiscriminately. I should suppose, that if a sum of money was allotted to the universities to purchase books, they would not purchase one in ten of what are published, perhaps not one in twenty. "Do you think the depositing of the eleven copies in these public libraries has any tendency to take away private purchasers?—Certainly, I think it must. "Does it not, in your opinion, supply gratuitously many people who would otherwise be purchasers?—I should think it would. "Do you conceive the evil is to be at all counteracted by any supposed notoriety given to those publications by the depositing of such copies in the public libraries?—Not by any means. "Do you conceive, that your publications acquire any advantage by any such supposed notoriety?—We do not consider the supposition of notoriety arising from the depositing of the books to be well founded, or productive of any advantage; if we did, we should send the books to the public libraries without any compulsion.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was disposed to give his support to the motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield.
 Mr. Baines  hoped the time would never arrive when this country could afford no general depository for literary works; and, he was, therefore, most anxious that some plan should be appointed for that purpose. He was convinced, however, that if the principle laid down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was attended to, every end would be answered.
 Mr. Aglionby , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal so much of the Statutes, 9th George 4th, cap. 31, and 10th George 4th, cap. 34, as relates to the period of the Execution of Persons convicted of Murder, and the Prison Regulations as to Murderers under sentence, observed, that although the subject was one upon which great public interest prevailed, he should best consult the wishes of the House in its present state, by not trespassing upon its attention in enforcing the principle of the measure, which he understood was not to be opposed. The discussion on the Bill, therefore, might well be deferred until the second reading, when he should be prepared to enter into detail on the evils of the present system, and the objects he had in view. He should be enabled to prove from facts
 467
 Mr. Aglionby  would willingly extend the provisions of the Bill to Ireland.
 The Speaker  said, that as his opinion had been appealed to, he considered that property in water was as much deserving protection from that House as property in land. It seemed that the question was considered so important that the matter was referred back to the Committee on the Bill. That Committee was of opinion that the Standing Orders had not been complied with, and the Standing Orders Committee, to which the question had been referred, were of the same opinion, then the question came before the House, had the Standing Orders been complied with? He thought that this canal was an extension of the original canal, a proportion of the water of which already belongs to the original proprietor of the brooks or streams, and being an extension of the original canal, he thought the decision of the Committee correct. If that Committee had decided on what he understood to be the nature of the Standing Order No. 5, would the House by a different construction set aside the standing order. He called upon the House to sustain and confirm the decision of the Standing Order Committee.—Motion withdrawn.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, I rise, Sir, in pursuance of the notice which has been some time before the House, to ask its leave to introduce a Bill, for the repeal of so much of the 54th of George the 3rd, commonly called the Copyright Act, as enjoins the gratuitous delivery of eleven copies of every published work, to eleven of the public institutions, colleges, and libraries of different towns in the kingdom. In doing this, I shall endeavour to lay before the House, as briefly as I can, the facts on which I shall chiefly ground my arguments for this repeal: and if these facts shall prove, that the gratuitous delivery of these eleven copies, as now enjoined by law, is injurious to the cause of literature, and to the general interests of the great majority of those engaged in its pursuit, I doubt not that the House will readily accord me the introduction of the Bill proposed. We have heard of late, within the walls of Parliament, many and repeated denunciations of what are called the taxes on knowledge, and while one party has sought the remission of the Stamp Duty on Newspapers, another party has put forward the prior claim for a reduction of the duty on paper generally—as this affects books as well as newspapers, and is, therefore, more emphatically a tax upon every description of knowledge, while the stamps operate as a hindrance to the diffusion of political information only. With the views of both of these parties, I entirely concur; and I should wish to see them both successful in their pleadings before the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But, Sir, the same principle which would lead me to vote for the remission of the Stamp Duty on newspapers and the reduction of the excise duty on paper generally, will carry me a step further, where those hon. Members on both sides of the House will, I hope, be ready to follow me, in demanding a repeal of the tax upon books, to the full as injurious as either of the two preceding ones, because it affects all books that are printed, whether political or otherwise, and operates most injuriously to the spread of knowledge, without adding any thing whatever to his Majesty's Exchequer in the shape of revenue. For the other taxes on knowledge, there is at least this apology or excuse: that they add to the public fund in the national treasury, a large portion of what they take from the consumer—though this would, be no reason
 441 442 443 444 445
 Dr. Bowring  seconded the motion. He expressed his regret, that no steps had been taken before this to form an arrangement between the Governments of England and France for an interchange of literary works.
 Mr. John Martin  called in, and examined.
 "Are you not engaged in the publication of Mr. Dodwell's Scenes and Monuments of Greece?—We are. "What would be the price of a complete copy of that work?—About thirty guineas. "What will the engraving of the plates and the colouring of them cost you?—About 3,000 l. "What would be the amount of the eleven copies of that work to be supplied to the public libraries at the selling prices?—The selling price would be 330 guineas. "And what would be the trade price?—The trade price will be about 275 l.
 Mr. John Murray  called in, and examined.
 "Did you not publish" The Costumes of various Countries?—Yes. "Was that an expensive work?—It was very expensive. "Should you now hesitate in the publication of such a work, knowing that you would be compelled to deliver eleven copies to the eleven public libraries?—Certainly I would. "The wholesale price of these eleven copies would amount to a very large sum?— It would be a very serious object. "What may be the amount of the books which you may have delivered at Stationers' Hall, since the passing of the Act of 1814?— The amount of the sale price to the public is about 1,700 l.; l.; l. "Do you not consider the compulsory delivery of eleven copies of every book that is published as a very heavy tax on those who speculate in the publication of books, in addition to the very high duty on paper and advertisements?—Very much indeed."
 Mr. Brotherton  supported the motion, and expressed a hope, that at no very distant period, the capital punishments would be abolished altogether. He was convinced that capital punishments did not tend to prevent crime—that they were not consistent with sound policy, and he was satisfied in his own mind that they were contrary to the law of God.
 Mr. Hume  adverted to some facts which, he had stated on a former evening, to show that the mitigation and the severity of punishments, and especially capital punishments, had been attended by a reduction in the extent of crime. The hon. Member instanced the case of horse-stealing, for which offence it appeared from the Returns, that, in the five years ending 1829, thirty-seven persons had been executed, out of 990 persons committed, the average number of committals being 198 for each year. For the five years ending 1834, there had been 966 committals, and not one executed, and for the last year, 1835, the number of individuals committed for that offence was 163, being thirty less than the average number of any of the preceding years. Now, the House would be surprised to learn, that in the three years ending 1st December, 1829, no less than 4,622 persons had been committed for trial on charges of burglary, coining, forgery, horse, sheep, and cattle stealing, and larcenies in dwelling-houses, and that of these ninety-six were executed; while for the last three years, ending 1st December, 1835, 4,292
 469
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion, that as a former Parliament first conceded the privi-
 464
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  expressed a hope that the hon. and learned Member would extend the provisions of his Bill to Ireland, where the practice was precisely the same as that which prevailed under the law in this country. He for one felt deeply grateful to the hon. and learned Member for having brought forward a measure which he was satisfied both the interests of justice and humanity demanded. The fact that, even if a conviction took place on erroneous grounds, it was impossible, from the shortness of the time, to appeal for mercy, was in his judgment alone decisive, and ought to induce the House to concur in the motion.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that, in addition to the evidence which the Returns, quoted by the hon. Member for Middlesex, afforded of the happy effects resulting from a mitigation of the criminal law, he held in his hand Returns showing a similar diminution of crime in the metropolitan district. He would, however, first refer to the Returns from England and Wales, excluding London and Middlesex. By these it appeared that upon the eight circuits there were, for the three years ending 1829, 3,950 committed, and fifty-four executed. For the three years ending 1835, 3,643 were committed, and only one was executed. Thus showing, under a relaxed criminal code, a diminution of 307 committals and fifty-three executions. In London and Middlesex, for the three years ending 1829? there were committed for coining, forgery, horse-stealing, sheep-stealing, and larcenies above 5 l. 470
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt called upon to say a few words upon this subject, which was extremely important, not only as regarded the rights of the universities, but the interests of authors, and, he might add, the welfare of literature. The principle of compensation, alluded to by his right hon. Friend who had just sat down had been admitted in the case of the University of Aberdeen, in the year 1833, when a Bill was passed on the subject; but he was not at present prepared to say how far it might be expedient to extend the principle of that Bill to the other universities. He certainty was most anxious that the interests of literature should be protected, and he was of opinion, that it would be better, and more convenient for the universities, that they should each have at their disposal a sum of money for the purchase of really useful works, than that they should have thrown upon them an indiscriminate mass of publications, many of which were worse than useless. At the same time he considered that there should be some place of deposit for every work published, in order that future generations might be enabled to judge of the state of our literature, and the manners, habits, and customs of the time in which we lived. The Universities, however, ought not to be deprived of their privileges without compensation, and he should object to any measure which would go to that extent. He should be glad to see the proposed Bill introduced, and when the House went into Committee upon it, hon. Gentlemen would then have the opportunity of examining its details, and considering how far, consistently with public and private interests, the measure ought to be supported.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the House generally was agreed upon the principle of the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend, and it might be convenient that he should now state that it had the entire acquiescence of his Majesty's Government. He thought it was hard to deprive persons convicted of murder of an opportunity for that appeal to the Crown which was allowed in all other cases. The proposition of his hon. and learned Friend embodied, as he understood, the adoption of the practice in Scotland—a practice which, since the Porteustrials, had been productive of no mischief. With respect to the mitigation of capital punishments in other cases, though that had been the principle of legislation since the inquiries under his late Friend Sir James Macintosh, he must say, that he could not attribute the diminution of crime entirely to that system of legislation, but rather to the existing state of the country. He would not at present say more, than that he entirely concurred in the motion for the introduction of this Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested, that as the whole system of licensing would shortly come under the consideration of the House, it would be better to defer discussion on the subject until then.
 Mr. Walter Campbell  replied: The complaining parties were all aware of the source from whence the canal was to be supplied. He had not entered into the merits of the Bill, but he would now take the liberty of stating that the canal had not one lock from one end to the other— that it was literally waste water by which it was supplied, and that no injury would result to these parties, as the whole water of these streams was given to that canal.
 432
 Mr. Walter Campbell  rose, pursuant to a notice which he had given, to move, that the promoters of the Stirling Canal Bill be allowed to proceed therewith. He would briefly state the case on which he grounded his motion, and then leave to the House to decide upon its merits. A petition had been presented to the House, praying for leave to bring in a Bill to enable certain parties to construct the Stirling Canal, for the purpose of joining the Forth and Clyde navigation. The Bill had been intrusted to him (Mr. Walter Campbell), and on strict examination of the Standing Orders, be found, as he thought, that they had all been complied with. Four Gentlemen, however, subsequently petitioned against the Bill, on the ground that the Standing Orders had not been complied with. The petition was referred to the Standing Order Committee, and, after considerable discussion they decided, upon a division of 7 against 6, that the Standing Orders had not been complied with. The decision of the Standing Orders Committee was grounded upon their fifth resolution, which required that where any canal, being intended to be a continuation of another canal or, navigation,
 428
 Mr. Ewart  seconded the motion. The law, as at present, was contrary to the dictates of justice and humanity. No time
 468
 Mr. Gillon  said, that in an Act passed in the 42nd year of George 2nd, a clause had been introduced which prevented the recovery of debts contracted for spirituous liquors, when the sum did not amount, at one time, to 20s. sterling. The object of this clause had been, no doubt, to protect the health and morals of the people. However this clause might have been suited to the time in which it was passed, it was found in the present day totally inefficient in preventing drunkenness, while it had anything rather than a beneficial tendency on the morals of the people. In fact, to the crime of drunkenness, its tendency was to add fraud and dishonesty. It had also an effect which had never been contemplated by its framers upon the spirit merchants, a class of persons who pursued an honest calling, and were fully as much entitled to protection as any class of his Ma-
 465 s.
 Mr. Gillon , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the Act, 9th George 4th, cap. 58, observed, that according to the present law, persons wishing to carry on the trade of retailers of exciseable liquors in Scotland, were obliged to come annually to the Justices to obtain a fresh certificate. This, especially in country places, was found to be unnecessarily vexatious. He proposed to remedy this defect, and to enact that the holder of a licence, as long as he maintained a good character and remained in the same premises, should be entitled to have it renewed by the Excise, without the recurring annually to the Justices for a fresh certificate. Another reason for this change was the gross partiality frequently exhibited by the Justices in administering the law, and he would point especially to a case which occurred last year in the county of Fife, where an individual named Hugh Beveridge, to whose character the Justices bore the most ample testimony, and yet they deprived him of his licence and his means of living, for no reason but that they said, there were too many public houses in the village in which he resided. The Justices had on this occasion acted in defiance of the spirit,
 466
 Sir James Graham  wished to state the reasons which induced him to concur with the majority of the Standing Orders Committee. Before the House reversed this decision, he begged to state that two Committees had concurred in the opinion that the Standing Orders had not been complied with. This, therefore, was an appeal from the concurrent decisions of two Committees, and was in itself a question of great importance. He admitted to the fullest extent that an adherence to the Standing Orders must lead to considerable inconvenience in the midland counties in the formation of any canal, but notwithstanding this he was bound to state that the Standing Orders, although, undoubtedly, they would lead to inconvenience, were consistent with the rights of property and the principles of justice. The Standing Orders, as now framed, whatever might be the inconvenience arising from it, was strictly in conformity with the sacred rights of property in the original proprietor. Now this was the case:—A party came, and, by a legislative enactment, procured a certain control over the property of another; but the Legislature distinctly said to the parties, that this control was given for a specific purpose, and to a limited extent. The Legislature tells the proprietor of the stream or watercourse, that for the public good it is necessary that he should surrender to a certain extent his control over the stream, but certainly after the supply of the canal the surplus water both in law and in equity belonged to the original proprietor, and no party had a right to dispose of that surplus to another. Should a miller have a right to agree with a party for the supply of water for his mill, and then go to another party and dispose of the surplus water after his own mill was supplied? In like way the lord of a manor makes an enclosure. He gives
 431
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that the course which he should pursue would be guided in a great measure by the suggestion thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with regard to the principle of compensation. The House of Commons had already recognised that principle in the case of the Aberdeen University, and he supposed that equal justice would be done as regarded the vested rights of the other universities. He was, therefore, not disposed to object to the proposed Bill, providing that it was accompanied by the principle of compensation, reserving to himself, however, the right of opposing such portions of it, when its details were fairly before the House, as he should consider injurious to the interests of his constituents.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, it was necessary to have more evidence of the nature of the Bill before they decided upon it. He considered that if any alteration were made in the present system, that the universities would be entitled to receive some pecuniary compensation in lieu of the books to which they were now entitled, and that pecuniary compensation might be very beneficially expended in the purchase of new and useful works; and that arrangement would, he conceived, materially conduce to the benefit of those learned institutions, for then they would have the advantage of selecting books of standard merit; and he believed that when the Universities first received the privilege it was limited to certain great works, and was not meant to embrace all the books published. He felt, however, that the House had no right to withdraw from the universities the privileges which they now enjoyed, because it would in a great measure tend to destroy the utility of their libraries. On the other hand, however, he considered that it would be a great tax upon authors of expensive works, and publishers of reprinted books, such, for instance, as "Hatsell's Precedents," which Members must have, or "Dugdale's Monasticon," that they should be claimed by the Universities. At the same time he felt as strongly as any man the impropriety and injustice of interfering with vested rights without
 462 l.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, though it might be injurious to both author and publisher to abstract from them eleven copies of very expensive works, which might not yet be standard works, still it would be an advantage to literature to have copies of standard works given to the great public literary institutions of the country, which parties could consult without the expense of purchasing them; and, if they were meritorious works, certain readers would have an opportunity of recommending them to the country through the reviews. He would oppose the motion.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  stated, that after hearing what had been said upon the subject, he would withdraw his opposition to the introduction of the measure.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  proposed the insertion of the following proviso; "That where the landlord of any House situate within any city or borough should compound for the payment of poor rates or assessed taxes, the tenant in occupation of such House shall be entitled to be placed on the register of voters for any city or borough wherein the same is situated, notwithstanding he may not have claimed to be rated to the poor rate, provided such landlord shall have paid, on or before the 20th
 473
 The Attorney-General  opposed the introduction of the clause, as informal. It should be brought forward as a substantive clause, and not as a proviso.
 Mr. Kemp  supported the clause. Unless some such were introduced many persons having a right to vote would be disfranchised.
 Captain Pechell  took the same view. The clause proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury would make a difference of 3,000 voters in the Borough which he represented.
 Mr. Pemberton  said, he had heard with the greatest pleasure what had fallen from the Attorney-General, because unquestionably on the same principles his hon. and learned Friend must support him (Mr. Pemberton) in his opposition to the present clause. He (the Attorney-General) had stated that it was no part of the object or principle of the Bill to alter the right of voting, and that its object was to provide a more convenient registration, and to remove any doubts that existed as to the present right of voting. If, therefore, he
 474
 Lord John Russell  said, that the clause was intended to remove doubts which existed, and for the better registration of voters. The framers of the Reform Act were aware that it would become necessary, from time to time, to take measures for the purpose of explaining parts of the Act, and that it would be requisite to apply to Parliament to make amendments in it. The object of the clause was to entitle any person occupying a house, or shed, or tenement, with land attached, to have the value of that land included in the valuation. He could not agree to omit the clause altogether, but he had no objection to put the other one to the sense of the House.
 Mr. Pemberton  hoped if the noble Lord brought in a Bill to disfranchise these voters, he would also bring in a Bill to disfranchise the 40 s
 Sir James Graham  said there ought to be a distinct understanding as to the point whether the house of the value of 10 l s., l s.,
 Mr. Pemberton  hoped, that if the noble Lord meant to disqualify a number of existing voters, he would not overlook the multitude of faggot voters notoriously created in Huntingdonshire.
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that he should take the sense of the House as to whether or not dwelling houses shoulds not be excepted from the operation of the clause, because agricultural dwelling houses in particular districts were often estimated at a low value, and it was scarcely possible that fraudulent claims should be advanced with respect to them in the same way as they were put forward with respect to other descriptions of buildings.
 Sir Robert Peel  entered his protest against the clause in the present Bill, because though the claim granted by the Reform Bill of a right to vote for land and tenements held jointly might be liable to abuse, still that was no ground for altering the
 475
 Mr. George F. Young  felt it is duty strongly to object to the alteration proposed by the hon. and learned Attorney-General; he had no difference of opinion with the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the necessity of removing any injustice which the present state of the law in some cases might work, but he could not go with him to the extent of expunging the third question altogether, for he believed it would be opening a door to many frauds, which it was the object of those who had inserted that question to prevent.
 Mr. Hume  did not agree with the hon. Member for Teignmouth. As the law now stood, a man possessing property of the annual value of 1,000 l., l. 476
 The Solicitor General  was surprised to find an alteration which would do away with a hardship and injustice, operating equally upon all parties, should have met with any opposition. The hon. Member for Middlesex had pointed out one glaring injustice which it would remove; he (the Solicitor-General) would point out another. He had found, to his personal cost, that the greater portion of the time and expense consumed on Election Committees was consumed in sustaining and combating objections founded on the third question; and all this time and expense would be saved by simply enacting that to persons sufficiently qualified at the registry, and, therefore, in all human probability, likely to continue so up to the time of voting, the registry should be conclusive evidence of their right of voting. He would also observe, that the amendment was only carrying out the evident intention of the framers of the Reform Act; they had almost indeed hit the mark; they had provided, that if you change your residence during the year, you may still register, although the Act requires you should be in occupation for the twelve months next preceding the registry; and you may not have been resident more than two months in the house for which you register. It was clear from this, that the framers of the Reform Act contemplated a  bonâ fide
 Sir James Graham  considered the amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Attorney-General as one which would work a great and important alteration in the elective franchise; and, as such, it ought to receive the most serious consideration of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-General, had all of a sudden found out the necessity for an alteration, which had not been considered necessary by the framers of the Reform Bill; by the Select Committee to whom the Bill had been referred, by both branches of the Legislature.
 477
 Mr. Jervis  hoped the House would not consent to postpone the amendment. There was one feature in the existing state of the law which had not been adverted to, viz.— that it excluded just those persons from the franchise whom the House would be most anxious to see in possession of the franchise, and formed no barrier whatever against those whom it would be desirous to exclude. Honest, respectable, and conscientious persons, who would not even in appearance be guilty of deception, were effectually prevented, by the third question, from voting; while low and unprincipled persons, who would not scruple to perjure themselves, were admitted to the poll. It appeared that the only remedy that could be applied to this unjust state of the law was that proposed by the hon. and learned Attorney General, and he should feel it his duty to support it.
 Mr. Strutt  saw no reason for postponing the amendment. It was true, as the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, had said, that the alteration proposed had not been considered necessary by the Government and Legislature at the time of the Reform Act. But if since that time Parliament had experienced that necessity of some amendment, surely, they were bound, if they could, to make it. Election Committees had been referred to, and thence a strong argument was to be drawn in favour of the amendment. He (Mr. Strutt) was, last Session, Chairman of an Election Committee, which sat for more than a fortnight; and how was it occupied principally? Why, in deciding objections upon this third question; objections, let it be remembered, that decided nothing as to the merits of the case, and produced no effect in the decision of the Committee, as both sides had generally an equal number of voters struck off on the same grounds. He hoped the Committee would decide in favour of the amendment.
 Lord John Russell  admitted, that the original intention of the framers of the Reform Bill was, that some such question as that now proposed to be omitted, should be inserted; nor was that intention the result of any hasty investigation, but he was bound to say, it was formed after the most careful consideration of the case. At the same time, he had made this distinction between the third question and the second and first; that, whereas, the latter were questions which could not, from their being simple matters of fact, be answered falsely, but willingly, while the former was a question which might possibly mislead a man, involving, as it did, something of legal nicety, as well as plain matter of fact. He did not think it proper to subject a man in the latter case to be subjected to the peril of an oath, which was retained in the other instances. On a reconsideration, however, of the whole subject, with the experience afforded them by the Reform Act, the Government were of opinion that it would be better to have the question at once done away with, and, thus relieving the voter from the hardship and injustice that now pressed upon him, to remove the inconvenience which resulted from the present state of the law.
 Sir James Graham  said, the object of inserting this clause had been first to remove a great practical evil which existed under the old system, viz.—the introduction into the franchise of non-residents, which was carried to an enormous extent, and secondly, to operate as a salutary check upon the 10 l.
 Mr. Maclean  hoped, that whenever the matter came before the House, they would also take into consideration the condition of the proprietors in the West Indies, in consequence of the emancipation of the slaves there. He did not mean to say that the duty should not be gradually removed, but he thought that when that was done, restrictions that pressed on the trade in the West Indies should be abolished, as a compensation to the West-India proprietors for the sacrifices they were called upon to make.
 Mr. Grote  said, he had a petition to present, to which he must claim the attention of the House. It was a petition praying for an equalization of the duty on East and West India sugars. It came from a large body of the most respectable merchants in London, and it was signed by fifteen Gentlemen, members of the East India and China Association. The petitioners represented, in strong and forcible terms, the injustice which was inflicted by the discriminating duty, not only on the inhabitants of India, but on the consumers of sugar in this country. He was, for his own part, unable to discover what good reason or policy there was for maintaining such a duty, and he was sure that the time was come when the House must see the propriety of equalizing it. Under the existing duty, the price of sugar had varied in this country during the last year from 22 s. s. 472
 Mr. Ewart  gave his cordial support to the prayer of the petition. Justice should be done to the growers of sugar in India, and the consumers of the article in this country, not by a gradual reduction (for that would be a most unfair proceeding), but by a complete abolition of the discriminating duty.
 Mr. Mark Philips  must protest against the House and the country being called upon to pay compensation twice over to the West-India proprietors. The time was come when the Legislature must put an end to this most unjust duty. If there was anything in the nature of a restriction that pressed upon the manufacture of sugar in the West Indies, let it be removed, but he must protest against any further compensation to the West-India proprietors. They had had 20,000,000 l.
 Mr. Chichester  said, that in the north of Devonshire there was a strong wish to see this question settled. If the House delayed this measure till another Session, they would find themselves in the same predicament as they had been placed in with reference to Irish tithes.
 Mr. Pemberton  was quite sure that any hon. Gentleman who compared this Bill as it then stood with what it was when it last left the Committee, would find that it differed materially from its former self. He believed that, from the first clause to the last, there was not a single one which remained unaltered—there was not a single portion of the machinery which had not been changed. He did not think it reasonable to suppose that hon. Gentlemen who were not lawyers should compare the Bill clause by clause; but it was not unreasonable to suppose that those who had voted for the second reading of the Bill should, when their attention was drawn to the fact, be ready to examine the alterations which had been made. In the Bill as it had passed the Committee, commutation was to have been either by agreement between the tithe owner and the landowner, or by compulsion when they could not agree. If compulsion were introduced, that compulsion ought to be general, or the whole arrangement ought to be purely voluntary. On the former occasion, the Solicitor-General had dissented from every point he (Mr. Pemberton) had urged and from every argument he had used; but it seemed that the hon. and learned Member did not possess the confidence of Ministers so much as himself, because the very principle then denounced as obnoxious had now found its way into the Bill. Compulsion was now generally adopted. [Lord  John Russell 506 507
 Sir Matthew White Ridley  said, that
 509
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  suggested, that as the understanding at the onset was that the Bill should be permitted to pass through Committee without obstruction, it would be quite as well to defer all debate on it until another opportunity should be afforded.
 Lord Stanley , seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, in his place, begged to claim his attention for a very short time in asking a question. He had that morning received a communication from a parish in Lancashire, from which it ap-
 500
 Lord John Russell  said, he had certainly given the House to understand that a measure in regard to Church-rates would be brought forward in the course of the ensuing Session. As his noble Friend had put this question, he would take that occasion to state to him and to the House, at what time and under what circumstances he proposed to bring forward the case. It would be recollected that on a former occasion, when a resolution was introduced which went to propose the abolition of Church-rates, it was strongly resisted, on the ground that the House were not fully informed of the actual amount of property held by the Church, and that it was not proper for the House to proceed to provide a substitute for Church-rates in the absence of such full and adequate information. He did not share in that opinion, but he did think it quite necessary that the question with respect to the appropriation of the Church revenues, according to the recommendation of the Commissioners, should be settled before they proceeded to deal with the question of Church-rates; because, if the House should agree with him in the opinion that the revenues of the church were barely sufficient for the religious instruction of the people, they would then have a ground upon which they might proceed. He would say, however, that his view of the matter, with regard to what were grievances, was, that in framing any measure bearing reference to Church regulations, the question ought to be considered as one affecting not a particular class, but the whole community. He had prepared two measures bearing on the subject of registration of marriages, &c, and he should consider it would be ineffectual to attempt to settle the question of Church-rates unless he were first prepared to settle that of registration of marriages, &c. Therefore, the answer which
 501
 Lord John Russell  thought it would be better to go through the clauses regularly; and the Committee would then be able to judge more correctly of the measure as a whole. He wished the Committee to take the Bill clause by clause. With respect to any alterations, he had only to say, that if the proposals which had been made by the Member for Somersetshire should be rejected he would afterwards introduce clauses to meet special cases which had been submitted for consideration, such as giving the discretionary power to the Commissioners to value the tithe at from fifty to sixty per cent of the estimated value.
 Lord John Russell  could not understand the meaning of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, unless it was intended to convey a reproach against the Government of having taken advantage of the suggestions of many hon. Members in order to improve the Bill then under consideration. If such were the intention of the hon. and learned Gentleman, all he could say was, that the Government never desired to arrogate the vain credit of having produced a Bill which required no alteration, and which was at once perfect for the object it was meant to answer, but their wish was to frame such a measure as would work favourably and satisfactorily for the country. Therefore, whether they had the credit of proposing the clauses of this measure originally, or whether they had adopted the clauses and recommendations which were suggested by others, they had pursued a course which was equally conducive to their purpose; and he was ready to take the shame, if it were a shame, of having yielded to the hon. and learned Gentleman, by embodying one of those alterations which the hon. and learned Gentleman had proposed, and which he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman in thinking was a good and useful one. He did not think there would be any advantage whatever in arguing in favour of the propriety of retaining certain clauses, by laying it down as a principle that, no matter what provisions were introduced into the measure by the Government, no matter how mischievous they might be proved to be, they were still determined to persist in them. There was scarcely one of the alterations which the hon. and learned Gentleman had commented upon that he had not given notice of proposing. He would refer to one or two of them. With respect to individual agreements, that was looked upon by him as a question the settlement of which was left open for consideration; and with respect to the mode of effecting a compulsory agreement, he stated, in answer to the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, that the provision giving individuals the power of en-
 508
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that it was with great regret that he had allowed the Bill, without opposition, to go into Committee at all, because he was so opposed to the principle on which the Bill was founded, that it appeared to him a mere waste of the time of the House to sanction the Bill in any shape whatever. However, as it was the duty of every Member to make the Bill as perfect as possible, he should object to the first clause. It was objectionable to intrust the appointment of one Commissioner to the Archbishop of Canterbury as reputed head of the Church. The King was the real head of the Church, and should have the appointment. Besides, the Archbishop was not a responsible person, as the Ministers of the King were. Another objection was, that the landowners were not represented in the Commission. The Church had a protection in the Archbishop's Commissioner, but the lay impropriators, a large body, had none.
 Sir George Sinclair  observed, that there were two problems connected with this Bill, of which he should be glad to receive a solution from his Majesty's Ministers. He wished, in the first place, to know whether they intended to introduce into its provisions a clause for appropriating the surplus revenues of the Church of England, beyond what was necessary for pastoral superintendence, to secular purposes. The Churches of England and Ireland were brought into a state of intimate and indissoluble connexion by the treaty of Union, and if once a graduated scale of clerical income, and a maximum of clerical emolument, were carried in the one case, it could not fail to be introduced in the other. To apply a different rule to the two Churches, was an act of grievous injustice towards the Protestants of Ireland, and a violation of the promise held out to them at the period of this Union. In order to insure the success of that compact it was necessary to hold out certain advantages to each of the great parties into which Ireland was divided. To the Roman Catholics it was represented, that as they constituted a majority of the Irish population, it would be incompatible with the security of Protestantism to give them eligibility in a separate Irish legislature, where their numerical preponderance would enable them to overthrow the Protestant Church; but that, if they agreed to the Union, they would form a minority of the aggregate
 502 ardet Ucalegon, 503
 Mr. Parrott  wished to address a few-words to the House. It did appear to him that they were about to legislate upon this question without sufficient information upon it; and therefore, as it also appeared to him, they were firing a random shot. He hoped, however, that the noble Lord would allow a Commission to inquire into the state of tithes, and the practice in reference thereto, in different counties; and that they should get such ample information as they had in the case of the Poor Law Bill. Without this the House would only
 504
 Mr. Benett  said, it was an undoubted fact that tithes taken in kind, did, on an average, amount to one-fifth part of the property from which they were to be deducted.
 Mr. Hume  thought the objections urged by his hon. Friend, the Member for Liskeard, were quite apposite, and he was of opinion that they were worthy the attention of the noble Lord on the Treasury bench.
 Mr. Hume  had stated on a former occasion the objection which he saw to the measure, and which objection he had urged upon the noble Lord, and it was this, that owing to the existence of the corn-laws the value of land in this country had acquired an unnatural height. The more he considered this matter the more convinced was he that there could be no fair settlement of the tithe question until the corn-laws should be abolished.
 Mr. Estcourt  proposed the addition of the words "all uncommuted tithes," after the words "hereinafter mentioned."
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  hoped the hon. Baronet would persevere in his intention, for he confessed he found it difficult to understand clearly the extent to which the Bill before the House went. They had never yet had a fair discussion of the principle of the Bill, and he would defy any hon. Gentleman to say what was the general feeling of the House upon it. Persons out of the House asked him if he was aware what sort of a measure they were about to give their sanction to, and characterized it as a most advantageous one for the tithe-owners, for by its means one-fifth of every man's property would go into the hands of the great lay and ecclesiastical impropriators. The principle of the Bill was altogether lost sight of. It left vicarial tithes untouched, and small and personal tithes, such as pressed most heavily upon the poor man, were not brought, as it appeared to him, under its provisions. It was not calculated to fulfil the intention of restoring harmony and allaying heartburnings throughout the country, and he trusted the hon. Baronet would move a specific amendment upon the clause under discussion.
 Mr. Blamire  thought that the hon. Member for Middlesex had not applied himself to the proposition of the noble Lord, to fix the commutation with an average price of corn for seven years. Therefore the corn-laws had nothing to do with the question. In the year 1771 a parish with which he was unacquainted commuted their tithes for a fixed corn rent; and the Vicar in that parish now received only 2 l. s. d. s. d.
 Sir Robert H. Inglis  agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury that the principle of the Bill required to be debated still. He was one of those who thought the ex-
 510
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that in lines 36 and 37 the word "tithes" was defined to mean and include all uncommuted tithes, portions, and parcels of tithes, and all moduses, compositions, real, prescriptive, and customary payments." Now, there were many parishes entirely covered by moduses, and as the Bill as it stood would affect this species of composition as well as all others, he wished to know if it was so intended, or if the moduses which existed were to be left untouched? If they were to be disturbed he considered it would be unjust.
 Sir Robert Peel  had already referred to that clause previous to putting the question, but he could find no satisfactory solution of the difficulty. He suggested, that to meet it the words "provided all moduses, or prescriptive and customary payments, should not be disturbed," should be added to the clause.
 The Solicitor-General  did not consider the Bill was so framed as to merit such strong language on the part of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He maintained that it did get rid of vicarial tithes, and of all small tithes, with the exception of some personal and mixed tithes, and those on fish. If it did not get rid of those particular tithes, it was because a measure like the present was considered inapplicable to them. He had himself a personal experience of the onerous nature of tithes upon fish, derived from the place which he had the honour of representing. But tithes of such a description could not evidently be affected by a measure commuting tithes into a rent-charge.
 Viscount Howick  referred the right hon. Baronet to the 36th clause of the Bill for the information he required. He would then, find all cases involving moduses, and prescriptive and customary payments, provided for.
 Mr. Wallace  was glad that the subject had been brought before the House by the noble Lord. The lime was arrived when the power exercised by Judges in Scotland, of dismission of other Judges under them, should be done away with. The Judges of every grade in Scotland should be appointed and dismissed by the Crown alone. The practice of one set of Judges dismissing others had been attended with very injurious effects in that country. Inquiry-had induced him (Mr. Wallace) to come to conclusions very different from those of the Law Commissioners on the subject. It appeared, too, that this case had come into Court in the year 1824, and that it was now near its close in 1836. That fact spoke volumes as to the state of the law of the country. He trusted that the learned Lord-Advocate would endeavour to put an end to such a state of things, and that the House would assist him in reforming this disgraceful system of the Scotch Law Courts. There was a Judge who had been dismissed twelve years ago, who had not
 517
 Mr. Goulburn  held in his hand a petition from certain individuals, the printers and publishers of those daily papers which had the largest circulation in the metropolis; and if any credit was due to the reports of what was represented to have taken place between his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and those persons who had been allowed to have an interview with him on the subject of the Stamp Duties, this petition was worthy of the most serious attention of the House. It was reported that his right hon. Friend had declared, that his object in the proposed reduction of the Stamp Duties was to put down monopoly; but he (Mr. Goulburn) was sure that if any such expression fell from his right hon. Friend, he was not actuated by any partial feelings, or by a disposition to disregard the rights and property of any persons. If any one class of the community was less entitled to the appellation of monopolists than another, it was that which comprise those who were engaged in the conduct of the public daily press; for, whereas while the copyright of other authors was protected for a limited period by an express law, to the daily press no protection whatever was assigned, however great might be the expenditure of capital in the purchase of information: however extensive the literary labour employed, individuals situated as the petitioners were, enjoyed no protection from piracy, but were liable to have the fruits of their enterprise and talent pillaged from them the very next moment after publication. But if this argument was not sufficient to relieve them from the charge of being monopolists, he thought that he could prove that these individuals were no more liable to that charge than were those who, having employed their capital and talents in a particular branch of business, had succeeded, by their superiority and industry in surpassing all their competitors. The object of this petition was to represent to the House the injurious effects of a clause which the right hon. Gentleman opposite had proposed to introduce into his Bill for regulating the Stamp Duties. By that clause it was declared, that henceforth a fixed newspaper duty should attach to a sheet of a particular size, and if they exceeded that size they should be subject to a
 518 Times, Morning Herald, Morning Post, Standard, Morning Chronicle, 519 Hear. Cries of "Order," and "Chair.
 Lord Stanley  said, that he rose to pre-sent the petition of a gentleman with whom he had no manner of acquaintance, but who, it appeared, feeling himself aggrieved by a statement made in the 11th Report of the Scotch Law Commissioners, was anxious, for the purpose of clearing his character, to bring the matter before the House. It was the petition of Mr. Alexander Peterkin, who had been appointed, in the year 1814, Sheriff Substitute for the Orkneys, and was removed from that office by the Sheriff of Bute, in the year 1824. The petitioner stated, that subsequently to that period the Scotch Law Commissioners of Inquiry having, in the course of their inquiries, adverted to the power thus exercised by Sheriffs in Scotland, they had stated in their Report made to the House, that there had been two instances of the exercise of such power of recent date, but that it appearing that they had been perfectly warranted, the Commissioners did not feel called upon to interfere in the matter. The petitioner stated, that his dismissal was one of those instances, and that it would seem, from the wording of the passage referred to in the Report of the Commissioners, that it had been a dismissal warranted by the facts of the case. Now, so far was the petitioner from acquiescing in the decision of the Sheriff of Bute, that he had in 1824 commenced legal proceedings against him, which proceedings were now nearly being brought to a close. The petitioner felt it a hardship that this part of the Report of
 516
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the only addition he had to make to the petition was, that the regulation complained of would be partial in its operation, and he was sure that his right hon. Friend would agree with him that it would press severely upon the parties who were in the habit of publishing double sheets. He would add further, that the restriction to a particular size was calculated to be injurious both to trade and to the revenue. It was hardly necessary for him on that occasion to offer any reasons why parties should not be as unrestricted as possible as to the mode in which they desired to carry on their business. He was sure the House would feel that the proposed regulation was one which must have the effect of interfering with the liberty of the subject with regard to the mode in which individuals chose to transact their business. He would further mention that the petitioners stated, if they should transgress the proposed law, they were to be subjected to a double duty, and that the additional duty would operate on them as a penalty, and perhaps effectually prevent the publication of double sheets. At present, the double sheet produced a revenue of a very large amount, and therefore this regulation in a fiscal point of view was one of the very worst that could be adopted. If the House thought that he ought not then to enlarge on the subject of the petition, he should desist; but he must say, that he felt sorry that he was not able to enter into it more fully, and that it was not fair to the petitioners themselves not to be allowed to state all their views. This, however, he would state, that the proposed Bill would materially affect their interests if it were carried in its present shape. Though he felt himself very inadequate to do justice to the claims of the petitioners, he hoped the House would not suppose that their case was not of a much stronger nature than he had been able or permitted to to make out.
 Mr. Goulburn  submitted, that the right hon. Gentleman was not pursuing a fair line of argument in making these remarks, unless he were permitted to reply to them, which he should be quite prepared to do.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought it but just to repeat, that he threw no imputation on his right hon. Friend for having made the selection of a particular paper as the model for the future size of newspapers. His argument went only to show that the restriction was unfair to others. He did not believe there was any ground for the charges which had been alleged against his right hon. Friend; he expressly stated, that in the course of his observations what he stated was, that it had happened, by some accidental circumstance, that a particular size had been fixed upon, and that the restriction to that size was injurious to the interests and property of the petitioners. With respect to what his right hon. Friend had said on the subject of the Act of 1830, this might not be the time to enter into an explanation of that question; but he would say, that he was not to be bound by every draught of a Bill which might have been found at the Treasury, as draughts were always subject to subsequent alteration. But he was bound by the schedule of duties which he had submitted to the House of Commons, and in that schedule he was confident there was no restriction as to the size of newspapers, and that there was an allowance for supplements at half the duty. The schedule therefore proved, that the paragraph in the draught which the right hon. Gentleman had quoted had been reconsidered and rejected.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that in the Irish Parliament ladies were allowed to be pre-sent. The cause of their original admis-
 530
 Lord George Lennox : Seeing so many hon. Members anxious to speak upon the present question, I shall detain the House only for a very few moments. The hon.
 561
 Major Curteis  asserted the strict honour and impartiality of the court-martial, and considered the censure passed upon it as most undeserved. The members of it were highly honourable men, and returned their finding upon oath. As for the noble Lord, he most cordially desired to tender to that noble and gallant officer his congratulations upon an appointment which he was so well qualified to fill, with honour to himself and advantage to the army.
 Lord George Lennox  begged to say, that he for one had not passed any imputation upon the motives of the court-martial.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the hon. Baronet would not press his motion. [ Divide. 578 579
 Captain Berkeley  could not agree in the opinion that this question ought not to be pressed to a division. He thought, in justice to Lord Hill, in justice to Lord Brudenell, the sense of the House should be taken upon it. The motion might certainly have been brought forward in a better form. If its object were to attain the ends of justice, some other mode should have been adopted; but it seemed as if it had been framed for the double purpose of attacking Lord Brudenell through Lord Hill, and Lord Hill through Lord Brudenell. The proper form would have been, if there were no ulterior object in view, for the hon. Baronet to have moved for an humble address to his Majesty, praying him to grant the court of inquiry which had been eagerly sought for on behalf of Lord Brudenell. As to the stigma which was said to attach to the noble Lord, he must differ from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He would merely state a fact, which would also answer as a contradiction to what was
 580
 Mr. Harland  was anxious to call the attention of hon. Members to the situation in which landowners and other proprietors were placed under the usual provisions of Railway Acts, and to state the grounds upon which he thought justice required that some alteration should be made in them for the future. At present any proprietor, whose property was taken by Act of Parliament, for the purposes of a railway, was liable to be called upon by the Company to furnish an abstract of his title-deeds, and to prove, at his own expense if required, their validity; and in case of his failing, to make out what was termed a marketable title, the company was empowered to withhold the payment of the purchase money from the vendor, and to pay it into the Bank of England, under the name of the Accountant-General. The object of the motion he was about to submit to the House was, to relieve the landowner from all expenses incidental to furnishing the abstract, and verifying his title, and to throw them in every case upon the party who came to Parliament to force the sale. There were so many hon. Members more conversant with the sale and transfer of property than he was, that he felt it unnecessary to dwell upon the difficulties which frequently attended deducing a marketable title, resting, as it often did, upon a proof of pedigree—requiring an examination of parish registers in different parts of the country, which was difficult, owing to the present defective mode of registration. Nor was it necessary to examine, in detail, the expenses which might arise in getting and assigning terms of years, in cases where the property was under the trust of a long and intricate settlement; it would be enough for him to remind hon. Members, that a title, which was a safe-holding title, might often be rejected as not marketable, and that the difficulties
 584 585 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Philip Howard  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  trusted the hon.
 586
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought that, in the very exhausted state in which the House was, it was impossible that the question could be decided satisfactorily, even to the hon. Member who brought it forward. He trusted, therefore, that he would consent to the adjournment of the debate.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  entreated the hon. Member for Durham to take the course proposed by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, and consent to the adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  shortly replied, assuring the hon. Member who had addressed the House last but one, that he had no ulterior views whatever.
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  said, that in rising in pursuance of his notice to move that the recommendation of the Committee be adopted, he felt great regret at the circumstance that, owing to his motion not having come on in the ordinary course of time, many friends of that motion were not present. He was at a loss, however, to understand what objection could be made to the adoption of the recommendation of the Committee. That Committee had been fairly chosen, and their report was impartial and unprejudiced. He had never heard a single sound reason advanced why ladies should not be admitted into that House for the purpose of hearing the debates, provided they were placed in such a situation that they could not interfere with the business of the House. He did not know what might be the case with other Members, but he was sure that their presence would
 528
 Lord Brudenell : Sir, I must crave the indulgence of the House, for a short time, whilst I make a few observations with reference to the subject which has been brought under their notice—and in rising to justify my own character, I am aware that I have rather a delicate task to perform, on account of the very limited space which is left open to me; for, on the one hand I am bound carefully to abstain from impugning the decision of the court-martial, which was held for the trial of an officer of the 15th Hussars, whilst that regiment was under my command; and, on the other hand, to avoid saying anything which might appear disrespectful with reference to the exercise of the King's prerogative, which deprived me of the command of that regiment. For the House will readily believe, that if I bowed with submission to that decision— that if I suffered with patience and becoming deference to the King's authority, and the recommendation of the General Commanding-in-Chief, that severe infliction— that I should be little disposed now to deviate from that respectful course after having succeeded in being reinstated in my former position in the King's service. 545 "REPORT OF A COURT OF INQUIRY. "That—acted injudiciously in not suspending all proceedings against— in relation to the military offence wherewith he was charged, and laying before the General of the district a full statement of the case of℄and of the opinions so expressed by him, in order to obtain from the General commanding the district instructions applicable to the occasion." 546 "His Majesty has been pleased to approve and confirm the finding of the Court. "Although it would appear, upon an attentive perusal of the whole of the proceedings, that some parts of the evidence might reasonably bear a construction less unfavourable to the prosecutor, than that which the Court have thought it their duty to place upon them; yet, upon a full consideration of all the circumstances of the case, his Majesty has been pleased to order that Lieutenant-Colonel Lord Brudenell shall be removed from the command of the 15th Hussars." "The King is graciously pleased to signify his satisfaction at the temperate and judicious manner in which your Lordship has, in that memorial, entered into the explanations which appeared to you requisite in consequence of the animadversions made on your conduct by the general court-martial lately held at Cork. His Majesty is further pleased to observe, that those explanations have tended to confirm the opinion which his Majesty has already expressed through the medium of the
 547 548 "EAST-INDIES.—It appears by the proceedings of a general court-martial, held at—in 1833, that Lieutenant—of the—regiment of Infantry, was tried on the following charges, namely— "For conduct to the prejudice of good order and military discipline, and unbecoming, contemptuous, and insubordinate towards Lieutenant-Colonel—in the following instances, &c. &c.'" "The Court having found the prisoner, Lieutenant——,of his Majesty's— regiment, or — regiment of Infantry, 'not guilty' of any of the criminal acts set forth on the foregoing instances, do therefore acquit him of the charge. "The Court, in closing their proceedings, feel themselves imperatively called upon to record, that the foregoing charge originally preferred, and subsequently persisted in, arose from private feelings, and had not for its object the well-being of the service." 549 "Head Quarters,— "East Indies,—1834. "At a General Court-Martial, holden at —, in the — 1834, Lieutenant-Colonel —, of his Majesty's —regiment, was arraigned on the under-mentioned charge. "For disobedience of orders, and highly insubordinate and general disrespectful conduct, unbecoming the character of an officer, and a gentleman towards me when in command of the—provinces, in the following instances, &c. &c." "The Court finds the prisoner guilty of 'disobedience of orders,' and of disrespectful conduct,' but acquits him of all other charges." "The Court having found him, Lieutenant-Colonel ——, guilty to the extent above stated, doth sentence him to be reprimanded in such a manner as the officer to whom these proceedings are to be submitted may see fit, and further specially to be admonished, to be more circumspect in future in his conduct towards his superior officers." 550 "At a general court-martial holden at ——, on—1832,&c, Major—, of his Majesty's—or— regiment of foot, was arraigned upon the following charges, namely. "1st. For highly unofficerlike and disrespectful conduct, in having suspended, and thus rendered ineffectual, a standing order of the regiment. "2nd. For conduct highly unbecoming the character of an officer, in having wilfully and knowingly made a false report, &c. "3rd. For conduct subversive of good order and military discipline, in having on or about the — last, ordered the officer of the main-guard to leave his guard, &c." "The Court cannot conclude their proceedings without expressing their regret, that the prosecutor did not adopt the means which he had at his command to ascertain how far the charges now investigated were susceptible of proof, before he resorted to the extreme measure of bringing an officer of Major —'s standing and high character before a court-martial." "The Prince Regent considers such inattention and negligence in a commanding officer to be highly reprehensible and deserving of his marked disapprobation, which his Royal Highness has been accordingly pleased to command shall be communicated to Lieutenant Colonel—. "The Commander-in-Chief directs that the foregoing charges preferred against Lieutenant Colonel—, of the—, together with the finding of the Court and the Prince Regent's pleasure thereon, shall be entered into the General Order Book, and read at the
 551 "By command of "His Royal Highness, "the Commander-in-Chief, (signed) "HARRY CALVERT, "Adjutant-General." "Head Quarters, Northern District, "Ledstone Hall, Pontefract, "April 15, 1834. "My Lord,—Your Lordship's letter of the 11th reached me here yesterday. I can have no hesitation in declaring that, with the exception of one occurrence, I had every reason to be satisfied with the conduct of the 15th Hussars, under your Lordship's command, during the period which they passed in this district, and that occurrence, which it is needless to say more about, was not, in my opinion, to be attributed in the slightest degree to your Lordship. "With respect to the discipline of the regiment in quarters, and to its efficiency and appearance in the field, the riding and the precision and quiet with which the movements were executed when I reviewed the regiment, I cannot speak too highly; and if my testimony on these points, as well as to your zeal and unwearied attention to all parts of your duty as Commanding Officer, is acceptable to your Lordship, I beg that you will do me the favour to accept of it.—I have the honour to be, your Lordship's most obedient humble servant, "H. BOUVERIE, Major-General. "Lieut.-Colonel the Lord Brudenell, &c." "O. O., Nov. 4,1835. "My dear Hardinge,—I know not how I can assist Lord Brudenell further than I have done, and that was by stating to Lord Melbourne that, as the circumstances that occasioned his removal from the 15th, took place whilst he was serving under my command, I was quite prepared to say, and would say, were I in the House of Commons, that I should be very glad to see him replaced in a
 552 "Ever very faithfully yours, "H. VIVIAN." "London, November 8th, 1835. "I cannot hesitate to commit to writing what I said to you, that if Lord Hill (who must be the most competent judge) should think fit to re-appoint you to a regiment, I should be ready to defend such re-appointment, either in Parliament or in private society." "March 20, 1836. "My dear Lord,—I have given every consideration in my power to your case, and I must say that, in my humble opinion, you have been treated with great severity; and if you are not permitted to effect the exchange into the 11th Dragoons, you will be treated with positive injustice. "I gave you this opinion in December last, and I am strengthened in the belief, that it is correct, from having conversed with many officers of all classes in the army, and I have found scarcely any one who has differed in opinion with me. "Believe me, very sincerely yours, "F. PONSONBY, Major-General." "Dublin, April 28, 1836. "My dear Lord,—I have had great pleasure in seeing that the General Commanding-in-Chief has recommended you to his Majesty for restoration to full pay, and your consequent appointment to a lieutenant-colonelcy in the 11th Light Dragoons. "In field movements, and the ready appli-
 553 "With wishing you, my dear Lord, every success, believe me always very faithfully yours, "EDWARD BLAKENEY." 554 555 The noble Lord left the House.
 Mr. Villiers  observed, that as he was neither "blest with daughters," nor felt any necessity to "bridle his manly passions," he might be considered an impartial judge on the present occasion. They had had friends of all classes in that House— friends of the Church, friends of the farmers, friends of the manufacturers, friends of the people, and now they had friends of the ladies. The change which it was proposed to make might be considered an organic change. In the first place, however, he was not aware that it was called for. He was not aware that any excitement existed among ladies on the subject; he was not aware that any petitions had been presented from them respecting it. He certainly did not see that any harm could result from the admission of ladies into the gallery. But would the thing end there? Were there no ulterior views? He wished to learn also how the admission of ladies was to be regulated? It would be impossible to admit as many ladies as there were Members of the House. Was the right of selection to be vested in the Secretary of State for the Home Department? If so, that right hon. Gentleman might subject himself to the charge of giving an undue preference to ladies of a peculiar description; he might be accused of being influenced in his choice by corrupt motives. He hoped that if the hon. Member for Gloucestershire really intended to introduce a Bill on the subject, he would not do so in the present Session: he hoped the hon. Member would give an opportunity of letting the matter be canvassed in all the populous towns of the kingdom.! To him it appeared to be so difficult to understand all the bearings of the subject, that he did not think that in fewer than three Sessions it would be possible to comprehend them all.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that he was anxious to offer a few words of explanation on this subject. The House was aware, from the correspondence which had recently been laid on the Table relative to this case, that he had expressed his opinion to the Commander-in-Chief as to the mode in which officers were placed on the half-pay in cases of this kind. The Commander-in-Chief announced to him, in this case, the reason for the course he intended to take before laying the new appointment before his Majesty, previous to placing the noble Lord on the half-pay. He then stated, that with respect to placing the noble Lord on half-pay after what had taken place, he entertained very serious doubts. He did not think that the noble Lord should be placed on half-pay, unless they allowed him to be brought before a court-martial, or unless they should qualify the sentence of the court-martial by the proper military authorities to meet his objection. The noble Lord having, however, taken the line which he had thought proper to do, and demanded a court-martial, he (Mr. Ellice) stated to the Commander-in-Chief that if he, under the circumstances, had been placed on half-pay, he would have resigned his commission rather than have accepted the pitiful allowance of half-pay, when he found that inquiry was refused him. Lord Hill did qualify the sentence of the court-martial in the way which had been stated to the House. He agreed with the right hon. and gallant General opposite,—that the members of the court-martial had gone beyond the duty prescribed to them. The same proceeding often occurred in the other courts of justice, when the jury expressed an opinion on the conduct of the prosecutor. Where,
 575 While, however, the King feels for the situation in which your Lordship is placed, and does justice to your anxiety for an inquiry into your conduct in those respects in which it has been impeached on the occasion referred to, his Majesty is yet clearly of opinion that, to assemble a court-martial, or to institute any other proceeding for that purpose, would be to depart from long established practice, to contravene principles of acknowledged authority in the military administration of justice, and to set a precedent of most inconvenient and injurious example. 576 No! 577
 Sir Henry Hardinge : I do not mean, Sir, but for a very few minutes to interfere with the natural impatience of the House to come to a division upon this subject; for there is no doubt that that impatience has been universally expressed, both before and after the hon. Member for Middlesex sat down. I do not mean to follow that hon. Member through his unconnected and somewhat contradictory speech. Indeed, it would be difficult to follow him in his praise of Lord Hill for his private merits, and through his dispraise of Lord Hill for his official demerits;—in his eulogies upon Lord Hill as an honest and independent man in private life, and in his accusations of that noble Lord as a Commander-in-Chief, influenced by his love of the nobility and by his oppression of the poor unsupported subaltern. All these topics of praise and dispraise, of eulogy and censure, have been so oddly dovetailed one into the other in the hon. Member's speech, that I fairly confess it is beyond my comprehension how these glaring contrarieties can be made to cohere at all together. It is no easy matter, then, to follow the hon. Member through the various topics of his incongruous speech, and, for my part, I. will save the time of the House by not attempting so unprofitable a task. Still there are some points in the observations of the hon. Member, to which I must be permitted briefly to advert. The hon. Member has taken pains to collect the different circumstances of the Admiralty case, in which those illustrious statesmen, Pitt and Fox, are stated to have concurred in the opinion, that the House had a right to inquire, when circumstances strongly warranted a suspicion, that the mode in
 568 569 570 571 572 573 574
 The Speaker  said, he had interrupted the right hon. Gentleman only with a view of calling his attention to the rule of the House; but that rule would not preclude him from making any explanation of portions of the petition which he might consider necessary.
 The Speaker  suggested, that the right hon. Gentleman was going further than he ought. As long as the right hon. Gentleman confined himself to the statements of the petition, for the purpose of making the House acquainted with them, he was perfectly in order, but when he went beyond that into an argument upon the question, he was irregular.
 Dr. Bowring  had supported the former motion on the subject, and would support the present. No evil had resulted in other countries from allowing females to hear the debates of their legislative assemblies. In the German states they were admitted; and their presence had not been found in any respect to hinder the progress of public business. On the contrary, their influence, as on all other occasions, had been found friendly to decorum, and friendly to the bridling of the manly passions. The character of females in this country stood so high, that he was persuaded no improper language would be used in their presence, and therefore that they would exercise salutary control. He had never known anything but good result from the presence of females; and he was therefore at a loss to understand why they should be refused admission into that House.
 Mr. Kearsley  hoped and trusted, that every hon. Member who was blessed with daughters would negative this idle and ridiculous proposition.
 The Lord Advocate  was not aware that anything could be advanced against the character of this respectable gentleman. He did not believe that any charge had been made against him for his judicial conduct in the office he had filled. At the same time he was not cognizant of the facts of the case, and he could state nothing positively and of his own knowledge with regard to the facts of it. He believed, however, that he was correct in stating, that this gentleman had been removed from his office for nothing improper, and that no charge had been made against him.
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to state to the House how much he differed from the noble Lord, and how completely the noble Lord had, in his opinion, established grounds in favour of the inquiry which he opposed. The noble Lord, the Secretary-at-War, was not the only hon. Member who had done this. The noble Lord who was the object, as some considered, but whom he did not consider the object of that motion, had made statements to the House which induced him to think that he had good reason to complain that he had been very ill-used, and that an inquiry was due, in justice, to him. The noble Lord who had spoken last, had brought forward a new point. He had told the House that the court-martial had acted improperly, and that persons who supported, on oath, the charges brought against an individual officer, had given a verdict in opposition to the evidence. The noble Lord in thus impugning the conduct of the most hon. tribunal that could be established for the trial of military, had, in his (Mr. Hume's) opinion, made out a case for inquiry. He would only add on this point, once for all, that in his opinion the noble Lord (Brudenell) had made out a case of great grievance. He was undoubtedly unfortunate in bringing forward charges which, in the opinion of the court-martial, were not substantiated; but he did think, from the noble Lord's own statement, that there were grounds of complaint against Lord Hill's exercise of discretion. He (Mr. Hume) had no hesitation in saying that, for himself, the complaint he made was principally against Lord Hill, for having, as Commander-in-chief, sanctioned the verdict of the court-martial, and proclaimed its sentence, in the terms they had heard that night, at the head of every regiment in the service, and now coming forward and re-appointing the noble Lord, without any explanation to satisfy the minds either of officers or men that that sentence was a harsh and unjust one on the noble Lord. He now wished to address himself to the observations of the noble Lord, the Secretary-at-War, relative to the alteration in the motion of his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend had undoubtedly departed from his original intention—and why? Because, not having paid attention to the practice of the House in former instances, when it had exercised its undoubted right of instituting an inquiry into similar transactions, he found that he might have been
 563 564 565 No, no 566 No, no. 567 Oh, oh!
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Potter  hoped the House would agree to the motion of the hon. Gentleman; for he really could not see any objection to ladies hearing the debates of the House. The plan had been already tried in both Houses of Parliament—in that House when the Lords occupied it, and. no objections were urged against it, that he ever heard of. In the ventilator of the old House of Commons every evening ladies had been seen listening to the proceedings, without any objection being made, or its being considered improper. Females were as much interested in the proceedings of Parliament as the other sex, and if any portion of them were desirous of hearing the debates, why should they be prevented? It was well known, and acknowledged by all, that they possessed very great influence in society, and it was, surely, of importance that they
 529
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, his right hon. Friend should have a full opportunity to reply to him. With regard to the charge made against him, whoever the parties might be who made the charge, he would say that there was no shadow of a pretence to justify them in imputing to him one of the basest acts that could be imputed to any public man—namely, that in framing a general measure he was so regardless of the public interests, and of the sacredness of the trust reposed in him, that he had made use of that general measure to subserve either his political views or party animosities, and to commit an act of injury towards persons who had embarked their capital in trade under the encouragement of the existing law; and at the same time, that, in so doing, he had sought to give advantages to others because they participated in his political feelings. Therefore he was bound to say, without arguing the general question, that he had adopted the principle of the double stamp because he thought it a fair and just one. It was stated, that he had drawn a line most ingeniously for the purpose of protecting the  Morning Chronicle, 523 524 maximum maximum Times Times, 525
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would first take the liberty of calling the attention of the House to the facts, or rather the allegations of the petition, and to the inferences which had been drawn from them. He did not find any fault with his right hon. Friend for the course which he had pursued. He should abstain from discussing those parts of the petition which his right hon. Friend had been precluded from stating; but he would take upon himself to say, that if the House would do him the favour to accompany him through the few words he should have occasion to address to them, they would admit that there never were more grievous and base misrepresentations—never more scandalous imputations—calculated to injure and destroy the character of a public servant, uttered, than those which had been put forth on another occasion in connexion with the petition now before the House. He would not address himself to any of those Gentlemen who were connected with him in political sentiments, but he would place himself in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman himself, and he would be satisfied to abide by his judgment. The House would allow him to observe, in passing, that he by no means warranted any statements which had gone forth respecting interviews which had occurred between him and persons who had desired to see him on this subject. He did not complain of this practice which had grown up; Gentlemen might exercise their own discretion, but he would say that it was a practice most subversive of public convenience, and detrimental to the discharge of official duty, when hon. Gentlemen were received for the purpose of communicating with the Government, that unauthorized reports of what passed should go forth, capable as they were of being mistaken or misrepresented, not being reduced to writing, and not expected to be published by the parties who made them; but being in fact exparte statements, which could neither be contradicted nor explained in the quarters to which they were forwarded. He made no complaint on this subject; he admitted that every class of persons had a right to have access to the Government officers on fitting occasions; but he would say, if that conversational intercourse was to be carried on with freedom, without which it could not be carried on with effect, the confidence of those who made communications ought not to be abused. Let an
 522
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  took the liberty most humbly to entreat the House, as this was a question which really more or less involved the character of a public officer of the Crown, to allow the right hon. Gentleman to have the fullest opportunity of explaining all the statements of the petition. But he should also claim the full power of not allowing those statements themselves, or the inferences drawn
 520
 Captain Pechell  had last year supported the motion, and would support it on the present occasion. He hoped that the hon. Member for Gloucestershire would be more fortunate with respect to his fair
 531
 Sir William Molesworth .—The object of the motion, of which I have given notice, is to call in question an appointment in the army. I do this, upon the principle that some officer of the Crown ought to be directly responsible to this House for the administration of the military department of the State. I contend that the Commons of England have a distinct right to demand an explanation with reference to any appointment in the army which may seem to them objectionable. That right is founded upon the same basis as all the other rights possessed by the Commons. It will be said that this is an attempt to interfere with the prerogative of the Monarch.— By no means.—I make use of a perfectly constitutional doctrine, when I affirm that the prerogative of the Monarch can never be injurious to his people; consequently, if I prove that the appointment is an improper one, I prove, by the very terms of the proposition, that the appointment in question could not result from the exercise of the Royal Prerogative, but must have resulted from the power of some one who ought to be made responsible for his conduct. But the people have to pay for these appointments; therefore, it is the duty of the representatives of the people not to pay for any appointment which is not a fitting one, and, if this be their duty, it is clear that they are bound to examine into the fitness of every appointment with reference to which there may be any reasonable grounds of suspicion. The Commons have the power of controlling all the departments of the State, and have exercised that power; over some departments that power is exercised more frequently,—over others less so. The mode in which that power is generally exercised is, first, by asking an official explanation with reference to an appointment; if that explanation be not satisfactory to the House, and the appointment be persevered in, the next step is to move some Resolution condemnatory of the appointment; if this be carried, and without effect, the next step is an address to the Crown to cancel the appointment, or to dismiss the person who made the appointment, or an impeachment of the person responsible for the appointment; if all this be vain, then the next step is to stop the Supplies; and if this be likewise ineffectual, the last and ultimate appeal is those who sent us here to be their faithful representatives. 534 535 536 537 538 "The Court having taken into its serious consideration the evidence produced in support of the charges against the prisoner, Captain Augustus Wathen of the 15th, or King's Hussars, his defence, and the evidence he has adduced, is of opinion, that he is not guilty of any of the charges preferred against him. The Court, therefore, honourably acquits him of each and of all the charges. "Bearing in mind the whole process and tendency of this trial, the Court cannot refrain from animadverting on the peculiar and extraordinary measures which have been resorted to by the prosecutor. "Whatever may have been his motives for instituting charges of so serious a nature against Captain Wathen (and they cannot ascribe them solely to a wish to uphold the honour and interests of the army), his conduct has been reprehensible in advancing such various and weighty assertions to be submitted before a public tribunal, without some sure grounds of establishing the facts. "It appears, in the recorded minutes of these proceedings, that a junior officer was listened to, and non-commissioned officers and soldiers examined, with a view of finding out from them how, in particular instances, the officers had executed their respective duties— a practice in every respect most dangerous to
 539 "Another practice has been introduced into the 15th Hussars, which calls imperatively for the notice and animadversion of the Court— the system of having the conversations of officers taken down in the orderly-room without their knowledge—a practice which cannot be considered otherwise than revolting to every proper and honourable feeling of a gentleman, and as being certain to create disunion, and to be most injurious to his Majesty's service. "His Majesty has been pleased to approve and confirm the finding of the Court. "Although it would appear upon an attentive perusal of the whole proceedings, that some part of the evidence might reasonably bear a construction less unfavourable to the prosecutor than that which the Court has thought it their duty to place upon them; yet, upon a full consideration of all the circumstances of the case, his Majesty has been pleased to order that Lieutenant-Colonel Lord Brudenell shall be removed from the command of the 15th Hussars. "The General Commanding-in-Chief directs that the foregoing charges preferred against Captain Augustus Wathen, of the 15th or King's Hussars, together with the finding of the Court, and his Majesty's commands thereon, shall be entered in the general order-book and read at the head of every regiment in his Majesty's service. "By command of the right hon. the General Commanding-in-Chief." "JOHN MACDONALD, Adjutant-General." 540 541 542 543 544 "That it be referred to a Committee to inquire into the conduct of the Commander of the Forces in appointing Lieutenant-Colonel Lord Brudenell to the lieutenant-colonelcy of the 11th Light Dragoons."
 Sir William Molesworth  was quite ready to comply with the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, not to take up the time of the House by dividing. There were, however loud calls for a division, and
 Viscount Howick : I feel sure, Sir, from the tone this discussion has already taken, that the House entertains much the same opinion as I have myself adopted of the course pursued by the hon. Baronet, and that they think with me, that he has submitted the present motion rather with the view of placing a formal question before the House, on which to raise a debate, than with any serious intention of calling upon the House to accede to the terms of the proposition he has submitted. The hon. Baronet has moved for a Committee to inquire into the conduct of the Commander-in-Chief, who has appointed the noble Lord (Brudenell) to the lieutenant-colonelcy of the 11th Dragoons. I believe most Members of the House are aware that the motion which the hon. Baronet has now submitted to the House, is not the one of which he originally gave notice. Almost every gentleman, who hears me, is aware that, in the first instance, the hon. Baronet gave notice of a motion, not for a Committee to inquire into the proceedings of the Commander-in-Chief, with reference to this subject, but of a direct vote of censure upon that officer. The hon. Baronet has, however, departed from his original intention, and has substituted for the motion of which he at first gave notice, that which he has just now submitted to the House. The hon. Baronet has not stated to the House his reasons for this alteration; but I think, in the course of his speech, he afforded sufficient indication of what those reasons were, and if I do not greatly mistake their nature, he has acted quite rightly in withdrawing the motion he originally proposed. 556 557 558 William Molesworth: William Molesworth: 559 "This is not a sufficiently close and stringent responsibility—I want a different kind of responsibility—that kind which consists in an
 560
 Mr. Alderman Wood  had no other object in view than the performance of his duty to his constituents. When he saw all the great coal-owners endeavour to stop a railway, the completion of which would contribute to the forwarding of a larger supply of coals, he did think, that with reference to the consumers of coals, it was right that assurance should be given that their interests were protected, and he had therefore moved that the representatives of the great consumers of coals should be on the Committee on these Bills. He was further urged to this course on seeing, in the Durham Papers, advertisements of meetings, &c, calling on the constituents of that part of the country to resist these Bills. In that state of things he had ventured to think that justice to all parties would not be endangered by requiring the representatives of Middlesex to co-operate with those of Durham. In the course of this discussion extraordinarily high language had been used, but he was not to be frightened from the performance of his duty. He could assure those who held such language that he dared to do all that became a Member of Parliament to do for the protection of his constituents. After what had passed he should not press the present motion; but he hesitated not to declare, that there ought to be some watch over gentlemen who were so largely interested in the coal-trade, or who were the representatives of those who were largely interested in such trade. And, for one, he should not fail to extend such watchfulness as far as he was able.
 Mr. Alderman Wood , in moving that these petitions be printed, adverted to efforts made in the city of London and elsewhere to prevent the formation of plans that would facilitate the supply of coals to the metropolis and its neighbourhood; an intimidation of no ordinary character was resorted to; but he said, intimidation would not prevent him from the performance of his duty, and from endeavouring to secure
 587
 Mr. Alderman Wood , pursuant to notices given, moved that the Members for the counties of Middlesex, Surrey, Essex, and Kent, and the cities and boroughs within the same respectively, be added to the Committee on the South West Durham Railway Bill, and on the South Durham Railway Bill.
 Mr. O'Brien  said, that he thought the resolution proposed by his hon. Friend was imperatively called for by the announcement of the noble Lord, the Home-Secretary, a few days since, which he considered tantamount to a declaration that no measure for the relief of the poor in Ireland would be submitted to Parliament by the Government during the present Session. Now he would ask the House, if a Royal Commission of Inquiry were to send down to that House a Report, that 2,300,000 persons in England were in a state of the most extreme destitution during thirty weeks in the year, would the House lose a moment in taking the subject into its most grave and serious consideration? Would it not determine that all other questions ought to be postponed as of subordinate importance, until measures were taken to mitigate the suffering of so large a proportion of the population? Did the case differ because
 599 600 601 602
 Lord George Somerset  would not then oppose the Bill, but would propose an alteration in Committee.
 Mr. Cripps  thought the partial manner in which property was now rated, required to be remedied, and he should support the Bill.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  was afraid, if the Bill were to pass, it would give rise to much dissatisfaction, particularly on account of the expense of a new valuation.
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  hoped the House would cause the Bill to be extensively circulated before passing it.
 Mr. Wakley  opposed the motion. The sole object of the Bill was to place the rating of the country under the control of the Poor-Law Commissioners at Somerset House (who evidently were the originators of it), instead of that of the ratepayers themselves. Had there been any petitions for such a measure, he would have most willingly entertained it, but as the voice of the people was not raised in its favour, he felt called upon to resist it. The hon. Member concluded by moving, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Baines  thought, that the hon. Member who attributed the measure to the Poor-Law Commissioners, ought to have ascertained whether those Poor-Law Commissioners were in existence when the present measure was first introduced. It so happened they were not. In his opinion there would be great advantage in an equalization of the rates; it would give greater precision to the Returns periodically required upon the subject of rating, and also enable Parliament to legislate upon the subject with far greater correctness than hitherto.
 Captain Pechell  I approved of the Bill,
 608
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  agreed with his hon. Colleague in thinking that the Bill was calculated to give a dangerous degree of power to the Poor-Law Commissioners, and would therefore join with him in opposing it.
 Mr. Wakley  was willing to withdraw his amendment, if the hon. Mover would introduce a clause rendering a new valuation unnecessary.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  said, if the Bill was allowed to go into Committee, he would be willing there to consider the hon. Member's suggestion.
 Mr. Tooke  said, he felt it his duty to take the sense of the House on this measure. It appeared to him that a Bill which enacted that a compulsory assessment of 6 d.
 Mr. Gaily Knight : Having been much in foreign countries, having been struck as the hon. Member for Sheffield, with the advantages derived by those countries from their public walks, and being equally desirous that my own country should possess the same advantages, I take pleasure in giving my cordial support to this motion. I have seen how great a source of health and recreation public walks are to the people of other countries, and I earnestly desire that the same advantages should be possessed by the people of England. But, Sir, whilst, equally with the hon. Member for Sheffield, I desire the advantage for the sake of the lower orders, I do not stop there; I desire it equally for the sake of all classes of the inhabitants of our provincial towns, not only because it will be a source of health and pleasure to all, but because I desire that the different classes should have as many points of union as possible; for the more they see of each other, the more they will be united. Sir, I am convinced that when the operatives of this
 610 611
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  was not opposed to the Bill; but he was opposed to proceeding in so thin a House, with any measure, one of the provisions of which went to impose a tax upon the people.
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say, that the hon. Member for Stroud had interpreted his noble Friend's answer to
 607
 Mr. Barnard  thought that where the interests of the metropolis and its neighbourhood were so deeply involved, every opportunity ought to be afforded to secure the amplest protection of the public interests.
 Mr. Lambton  opposed the motion. It was of the most unusual character. Regular lists for Committees on private Bills were prepared and constantly acted upon, and to depart from them would lead to confusion and inconvenience, and he did not see how the present proposition could be sanctioned, except it were shown that the regular Committees had failed in the performance of the duties deputed to them. And if they had so failed, the House was not without its remedy; fault could be found and complaint be preferred before the House on the bringing up of the Reports. He, therefore, should give his most decided opposition to the motion.
 Mr. J. Grattan  regretted that the hon. Member for the county of Limerick (Mr.
 604
 Mr. Pease  must also resist the motion as irregular and inconsistent with the regulations of the House regarding Committees on Private Bills. It was uncalled for by any conduct on the part of the existing Committees. If any question arose as to the manner in which the Committees acted on these Bills, let that matter be brought before the House on bringing up the Report. That stage of the business presented the proper opportunity, and therefore the public interests could not fail to be duly pro-
 588
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  rose to bring forward the resolutions of which he had given notice, and first required the Clerk to read that part of the King's Speech at the opening of the Session which related to the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland. The following are the words of the Speech:—"A further Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry into the condition of the poorer classes of my subjects in Ireland will speedily be laid before you. You will approach this subject with the caution due to its importance and difficulty; and the experience of the salutary effects already produced by the Act for the amendment of the laws relative to the poor in England and Wales, may, in many-respects, assist your deliberations." The hon. Member then said, in entering on this subject I would recal to the recollection of the House the history and present state of this great question. England, it is well known, and Scotland, had their system of poor-laws established in the beginning of the 17th century. It is now known that it was contemplated by the Legislature very shortly afterwards to transfer the same valuable institution to Ireland. In the year 1640 an Act, the almost literal transcript of the 43d of Elizabeth, passed both. Houses of Parliament in Ireland, and received the Royal Assent; but, by some accident, owing most probably to the troubled state of the times, just at the breaking out of the great rebellion, it was never promulgated, and has remained a dead letter ever since. From that time till very lately no attempt was made to introduce any public provision for the poor into Ireland. A few years since some writers in the public press, struck by this contrast of the condition of the poorer classes of the population of England and Ireland, the one without, the other with, the protection of a poor-law, advocated the extension of this salutary institution to the sister island. But their views were discountenanced by the then reigning school of political economy, which had espoused the doctrine of Mr. Malthus, that poverty was solely the consequence of excess of population; that any relief to the poor only led to an increase of their numbers, and consequently to an increase of pauperism and misery. In vain was it urged that the comparative rate of increase
 591 592 ruse, sine die. 593 594 595 sine quâ non 596 597 598 "That the Commissioners appointed by his Majesty to inquire into the condition of the poorer classes in Ireland, having finally reported, in which Report it is stated, among other facts— "1. That 'a great portion of the labouring population of Ireland are insufficiently provided with the common necessaries of life;' that 'not less than 2,385,000 persons of that class are in distress, and require relief for thirty weeks in the year, owing to want of work;' "2. That 'the wives and children of many are obliged reluctantly, and with shame, to beg;' "3. That 'mendicancy is likewise the sole resource of the aged and impotent of the poorer classes in general, whereby encouragement is given to idleness, imposture, and general crime.' "And the Commissioners having recommended several legislative measures for the cure of these appalling evils— "This House is of opinion that no time should be lost in taking such steps as may tend to relieve this large portion of his Majesty's subjects from so calamitous a condition."
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  said, that after what had fallen from the noble Secretary for Ireland, he should not think it necessary to divide the House. He still thought, however, that there was considerable ambiguity as to the intentions of the Government.
 Mr. Gisborne  interrupted the hon. Member. In the instance in question the decision was by the Chairman giving the casting vote.
 Mr. Gisborne  having moved that it be an instruction to the Committee on the re-committed Midland Counties Railway Bill, to confine their labours to an inquiry into the merits
 589
 Mr. Hughes  could not agree with the motion, but, at the same time, he was of opinion that the proceedings of these Committees ought to be closely watched by hon. Members.
 Mr. William Roche  was of opinion, that after the announcement which they had just heard from the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, this motion ought not to be pressed to a division.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  confessed that he heard with the deepest regret that no measure was to be brought forward this Session for the suffering poor of Ireland. At least he understood the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, to mean that he could give no pledge that such a measure would be introduced within the period which he had stated. It was universally admitted that the distress of the Irish poor proceeded from no fault of theirs, and that the Irish landlords were not, in the slightest degree, responsible for their condition. The misery and destitution of the Irish poor were now more appalling than ever, and the present state of things had been brought about by several causes. First, the abolition of the 40 s. l. 605 606
 Sir Robert Bateson  had hoped that a question relative to the distress of the Irish poor would have been temperately discussed on either side of the House, and free from party allusions. He must say, that the hon. Member for Dundalk had, in the observations he had made upon them, done no less than libel the landlords of Ireland, in attributing to them the wholesale expulsion complained of, and he would content himself with giving that part of the hon. Gentleman's speech his decided contradiction. In the name of the landlords of Ireland he denied such a statement could be maintained. Without wishing to give the slightest offence to the hon. Member for Stroud, he would tell him he did not quite understand the case of the Irish people. There was not a parish in Ireland without a dispensary or an hospital for the sick poor; and as to emigration, he was sorry to say, that instead of ridding the country of the idle and poor, it had in too many instances deprived it of a most useful class of persons. He thought it better not to press this question at present, but to wait until another Session should produce some well-digested measure upon the subject. He trusted Government would give it their undivided attention, and begged it to be understood that the feelings of Gentlemen on his side of the House were as acute with regard to the sufferings of their fellow-countrymen as those upon the opposite benches.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  —Yes; but except the hon. Member in question had voted, there would have been no occasion for the casting vote of the Chairman. He did not mention these things as matters of complaint, but to exculpate himself from having done what was contrary to the practice of the House. On the evening previously to the vote that he had given, five Directors of the Dublin Steam Packet Company had voted on a Bill regarding that Company, without any complaint being preferred; he therefore submitted, that down to the time of giving his vote, of which complaint had been made, he had no reason to believe that he was acting inconsistently with the practice of the House.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, that he wished to make a remark or two regarding the right of voting on Railway and other Bills by those Members who might have shares therein. He did not desire to introduce the remark he had to make with any personalities, nor in the language of complaint, but only to set himself right with the House and the country; and he thought that if strict candour were extended to him, this opportunity would neither be denied nor complained of. He begged to remind the House that he was by no means the only Member who had voted on Bills in which they were personally or pecuniarily interested, but, he believed, like himself, without imagining that they were in any way acting contrary to the rules or practice of the House. There was the subject that had recently been mentioned —the coal monopoly, or the supply of coals. Had not many Members interested in that monopoly or supply voted on the Bills tending to facilitate the supply? This it was right that the House and the public should know. Again, had not one Member, having a remote interest in the question, decided the votes regarding the Kingston branch in a Railway Bill, which decision would have been the other way but for the vote of that Member, who had at least a remote interest, for he was a subscriber to the amount of 15,000 l.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that he also must give his most decided resistance to the present proposition. He thought that if any one but the hon. Alderman had brought forward the proposition, that hon. Member would have been the first to exclaim against and to resist so monstrous and barefaced a proposition, as he would have been disposed to term it. He was astonished that the hon. Member had brought himself to propose so monstrous, absurd, and irregular a proposition, as no fault was even alleged against the existing Committees; and he must say, that the absurdity of the proposition was only equalled by its injustice, there having been no fault found hitherto for non-compliance with the usual orders of the House.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that in the absence of his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, he felt that it would be unbecoming, and even unnecessary for him to detain the House with more than a few words in answer to the resolution which had been proposed, and these few words should be applied rather to the subject of the motion than to the terms in which it had been introduced. This much, however, he must be allowed to say, that some of the strictures which had been made upon the conduct of the Government did not appear to be prompted by a candid and conciliatory spirit. After stating several facts, the last resolution of the hon. Member for Stroud was to this effect:—"That it is the opinion of this House that no time should be lost in relieving so large a portion of his Majesty's subjects from their present calamitous condition." Now who was to define the
 603
 Mr. Robinson  had four Petitions to present for the reduction of the Stamp Duties on Marine Insurances, from Beaumaris, Bangor, Carnarvon, and the fourth was most respectably signed by 900 merchants, underwriters, and insurance-brokers of London. These were Petitions deserving attention, particularly the last, which was one of great importance, coming as it did from such an influential body, and he would therefore have to trouble the House with a very few facts, to show that, in the proposed alteration of the Stamp Duties, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not, injustice refuse to comply with the prayer of the petitioners. The whole tax only pro-
 612 l., l. l.; l. l., l.
 Mr. Robinson  would adopt the suggestion of the Chair, and would only trespass on-the attention of the House for a few moments longer. He was desirous of stating the reasons for the decrease in this particular duty, and that was, that foreigners, who otherwise were disposed to insure their property in this country, were prevented from doing so by the facilities afforded for that purpose abroad, added to the dislike they had to contribute to the increase of our revenue. In conclusion, he would say, that many refused to cover their property to the full extent of the risk, in con-sequence of the high rate of marine insurance. With these facts before the country, he hoped the right hon. the Chancellor of
 613
 The Speaker  begged to call the attention of the hon. Member to the rule that had been laid down for facilitating the public business—that of hon. Members confining themselves to the prayer of petitions, without reasoning on them. The proper time for so doing would be when the subject was before the House, but at present the hon. Member was taking too great a latitude in his observations.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  opposed the Bill. He designated this as an attempt to smuggle a private Bill through that House, which would have the effect of wresting from the rector, the Dean of Lincoln, without the sanction or colour of law, under the specious pretext of an endowment, the right t which he possessed in the chapelry, which
 631
 Mr. Evelyn Deniso  confirmed the statement of the hon. Member who spoke last. According to his (Mr. Denison's) notion, the Gallant Officer, the Member for Lincoln, had not sufficiently informed himself of the facts of the case to enable him to make a clear or satisfactory statement, in which he had signally failed. He would support the second reading.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  only discharged what he deemed to be his duty in the part he took in opposing this measure, but he disclaimed all want of proper feeling towards the noble Lord.
 Dr. Bow-ring  put a question respecting the manufacture of Sugar from Beet-root—a process which he understood had lately been brought into this country. He wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer was acquainted with the fact, and whether he did not think that success in such an experiment would be attended with the most injurious consequences? If it succeeded, it might be necessary, as had been the case with the recent cultivation of tobacco, to pluck up the beetroot by the roots.
 Mr. Goulburn  intended to conform to what appeared to be the general feeling of the House, and to what he considered the best practical mode of dealing with the subject before them, and to abstain from entering into any detail on the various points which the right hon. Gentleman had suggested with respect to the repeal of duties, until each individual subject was brought in a proper shape before them. He knew from experience, that the attention of that House would never be given to
 677 678 l l l l l l l l l 679 l l l 680 Times, The Morning Post, 681 Chancellor of the Exchequer: 682
 Mr. Goulburn  was understood to say that the deputation appeared only to have included one of the petitioning parties.
 Mr. Goulburn : Well, at least the  Morning Post Morning Herald
 Mr. Goulburn  knew nothing further on the subject, but what he gathered from communications which had been made to him in the course of the evening, by different gentlemen, who asked him to state that they had not authorized or assented to the proposition of his right hon. Friend with regard to the size of newspapers. That his right hon. Friend believed the deputation to represent those parties there could be no doubt. With respect to the other point on which the right hon. Gentleman had touched, he had found in his office the original draught of the bill, as prepared for consideration and revision, and the right hon. Gentleman had availed himself of the clauses as they stood in that draught to support the arrangement which he had adopted, but which was not borne out by the schedules actually submitted to the House. He had not intended to propose any limitation in the size of the paper; he had intended to submit a proposal, and to call on the House to approve it, which should contain no limitation whatever. His right hon. Friend would imply, that after bringing forward the general plan, it was his (Mr. Goulburn's) intention to ask the consent of the House to a clause limiting the size of newspapers, and the tendency of producing this paper, found in the office of the right hon. Gentleman, was to raise an idea that he meant to deceive the House. Now, he could assure them that he never had any such intentions; and he wished to set himself right with the House on this point. The words of the schedule were—"Newspaper containing public news, intelligence, or occurrences, or any remarks or observations thereon, or upon any matter in Church or State, with or without advertisements; (that is to say) for every sheet, half sheet, or other piece of paper, whereof the same shall consist, 4 d
 Mr. Goulburn :—The words in his schedule were precisely as set down in Mr. Huskisson's Act, and that measure contained no limitation whatever.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  assured the House that the inhabitants of the county of Durham were greatly opposed to the abolition of the Local Courts. These Courts had been long of great advantage to the county; and although he fully agreed that the separation of the temporal and ecclesiastical jurisdiction might be beneficial, he still thought that they would be wrong if they were to deprive the inhabitants of the county of Durham of an advantage which they had so long possessed and so highly prized, especially after the dissatisfaction which it was well known the change in the principality of Wales had created. He certainly should support his hon. Friend
 703
 Mr. Goulburn  'thought,' that 'after what had passed the' noble Lord ought to consent that the Bill should be recommitted. If a change were called for, that change should not be effected against the wish of the in- habitants of the county.
 Lord John Russell  said, that after what j had passed he would consent to the Bill being recommitted, but in doing so he must take leave to deny that the change which had taken place in the administration of justice in England and Wales had been productive of any dissatisfaction whatever.
 Lord John Russell  moved the further consideration of the Report on the Bishopric of Durham Bill.
 Colonel Sibthorp  seconded the amendment; he thought such an important Bill ought not to be brought under the consideration of the House at such a late hour, and with so thin an attendance.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have completely forgotten the agricultural interest, whose claims he (Colonel Sibthorp) had so long pressed on the attention of the House. With regard to the stamp duty on newspapers, he considered that the reduction of that tax would be in effect admitting that the power of the law was not sufficiently great.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought that caution and prudence were above all things necessary at the present time, in order that the existing prosperity of the country might be maintained, and that we might not see it succeeded by similar scenes to those that took place in 1825. It was impossible not to be struck with the spirit of speculation that now existed in the country; but he believed that there was a great difference between the present state of things and what took place in 1825. The spirit of speculation was then turned to foreign adventure of the most extraordinary description; but now speculation was directed to home objects; which if pushed too far might be very mischievous, though the consequences might not be quite so mischievous as in 1825; but, really, on turning to any newspaper, or to any price current, and observing the advertisements of joint-stock companies upon every possible subject, however unfit to be carried on in the present state of society, any man must be struck with astonishment at the fever which raged at this moment for those speculations. He felt it his duty some time ago to direct a register to be kept, taking the names merely from the London and a few country newspapers, of the different joint-stock companies, and of the nominal amount of capital proposed to be embarked in them. The nominal capital to be raised by subscriptions amounted to nearly 200,000,000 l l "Exchange. British Agricultural Loan Company. Ten quarters English wheat. London. 18 No. I promise to deliver on demand, to the order of ten quarters of wheat, weighing lbs. per bushel, from the county of and the growth of 689 warehoused on the of  in sillo on which all charges have been paid up to the l standard value. For the Governor and Directors of the British Agricultural Loan Company. Entered Storekeeper. Secretary." l l l l l l 690 l 691 l 692
 Mr. David Roche  thought that the newspaper proprietors in Ireland had not been fairly treated, as they were not to receive a reduction of duty proportionate to that extended to England and Scotland. He begged to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the propriety of making a still further reduction in the tax on glass.
 Mr. Baines  wished to ask some questions of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer relative to three points of his financial statement. He begged to inquire whether the duty on both descriptions of paper was to be reduced; and also if the discount of 20 per cent. now allowed on the newspaper stamps would be continued in the new scale of duty. The other point to which he wished to draw the right hon. Gentleman's attention was this—they had heard that it would be extremely desirable to reduce the taxes on raw materials, and particularly on cotton wool; now there was also a duty on the introduction of sheep's wool, and he hoped that they would be taken into consideration. He wished for the reduction of both taxes; the same principle was applicable to each; the effect of their reduction would be to relieve manufactures from the pressure of the import duty on the raw material.
 Mr. Grote  presented a petition from a number of persons interested in the tea trade, and begged to put a question, founded on the petition, to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The House was aware that all teas arriving after 1st July next would be subject to the equal duty of 2 s d
 Mr. Robinson  concurred generally in the views taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and was happy to find that, notwithstanding the reduction of 8,000,000 l l l l l 683
 Mr. George F. Young  was sorry that the
 701
 Mr. Granville Vernon  said, that it would be much more agreeable to him to abstain from introducing any personal allusions in supporting this measure, but the hon. Member for Lincoln had rendered it necessary that he (Mr. Vernon) should go into some of the details in vindication of the character of the noble Lord (Manvers) who had proposed to effect this endowment. The noble Lord did not seek for any benefit to himself, nor to divest the Vicar of Edwinstowe of any of his present or contingent income, which he was entitled to by law. He was desirous of promoting the efficiency of the Church, by securing weekly services in a chapel in which, by law, there was only provision for alternate duty. He (Mr. Vernon) was grieved to learn that the opposition to this splendid proposal should proceed from a dignitary of the Church, he alluded to the Dean of Lincoln, the patron; the incumbent, who is his son, having in the first instance acquiesced in the duty being performed by Lord Manvers's chaplain. Therefore, no scruples could have existed in that quarter as to parting with the cure of souls of one hundred persons out of the 2,000 with whose charge he was originally intrusted. He (Mr. Vernon) believed that the apprehension which the Dean entertained was this, that if a new benefice was created, the time might arrive when persons would inquire how it happened that the tithes of that township had gotten into the pocket of the Dean of Lincoln and the vicar of another benefice; and as there was a disposition, on the part of the real friends of the Church to apply the surplus incomes of chapters to promote religious services in the districts from which the revenues were derived, he might fear that something would spring up to prevent the appropriation of those funds. The hon. Member for Lincoln had stated that this Bill was in contravention of an Act of Parliament, in which he was mistaken. He (Mr. Vernon) contended that the patron and incumbent would be benefited by
 632
 Mr. Granville Vernon  moved the second reading of the Parlethorpe Chapelry Bill.
 Mr. Galley Knight  supported the motion, and defended the generous proposition of the noble Earl (Manvers), by whose liberality in the cause of religion the Church would be a gainer of 100 l
 Mr. Hume  understood that the removal of the present was to be followed by the establishment of other Local Courts, and if that was the case one great objection to the Bill would be got rid of.
 Mr. Hume  was much surprised that that which was a public question should be brought forward in the nature of a private Bill. It appeared strange to him to hear of individuals being so liberal, and of hon. Gentlemen now coming forward to prop the Church. It was also rather strange to see the noble Lord (Manvers) and the Archbishop of York opposing the views of the vicar and incumbent. He (Mr. Hume) was of opinion that the opposition of the gallant Officer to this Bill was well founded; for if the noble Lord succeeded in the endowment, there was nothing to prevent him from coming forward hereafter and claiming compensation. Why not the Commissioners come forward and report to that House what ought to be done? He hoped the Bill would not proceed further.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the details into which the right hon. Gentleman had entered must be most gratifying to the House. No part of the statement had been more satisfactory to him (Mr. Hume) than that in which the right hon. Gentleman had pointed out the advantages which had arisen in consequence of the repeal of the duty upon beer. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, that the surplus revenue for the present year would amount to something more than 600,000 l l l l 674 l l l 675 676
 Mr. Pease  said, that if such an understanding existed it would decidedly obviate the objections which were generally entertained against this measure. There was no imputation against those Courts that they did not administer justice impartially, clearly, effectually, and economically, and, therefore, it would be unfair to take them away without giving a substitute for them. He, however, was opposed to the principle of centralisation embodied in this Bill.
 Mr. Pease  said, that he was decidedly in favour of the principle of this Bill, viz. the separation of the ecclesiastical from the
 702
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  agreed in much of that which the right hon. Gentleman had said on the subject of the mischievous effects which the errors of over-speculation were calculated to produce; but he at the same time thought it should be borne in mind that these errors and blunders were always the necessary and almost unavoidable consequence of a state of things in which enterprise was sure to be too speculative; but there never could be any great and unusual extension of the productive industry of the country unaccompanied by these results. He could not help thinking, however, that much of this cause of complaint arose from defective legislation, and that the time of the right hon. Gentleman, and the attention of the House, might be much more profitably employed in endeavouring to amend the system on which the financial concerns of the country were conducted, than in making unavailing complaints of unavoidable evils. Nor could he avoid adverting to the very extraordinary tone which had been adopted in the course of this debate, as regarded the state of the commercial transactions of the country. It seemed to be assumed that, as compared with countries on the Continent, this country was not prosperous, and that there was at present no secure basis for the very limited degree of prosperity we enjoyed. He, on the other hand, thought that the greater part of the prosperity of the country rested on the surest and most stable foundation—that of the prudence and spirit of enterprise inherent in the community; and he was also of opinion that this spirit of enterprise, if left to itself, uninterfered with by bad financial regulations, would secure a continuance of that prosperity, fixed upon a basis which no merely temporary causes of fluctuation could possibly affect. He thought, there- fore, that hon. Gentlemen opposite, rather than spend their time in enumerating the errors into which the commercial spirit of the people had led them, had better set about framing some more beneficial financial system. He did not so much oppose the arguments which the right hon. Gentleman had used, or the facts he had stated, as he disputed the inferences which he had drawn from them—inferences which he had thought the right hon. Gentleman would not have leant himself to. The right hon. the Chancellor of the
 693
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  considered the Bill as calculated to form a new district, and consequently the Church should defray the expenses. He trusted the Bill would he thrown out.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to say one or two words in reply to some of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex. That hon. Gentleman had asked why he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not repeal the whole of the duty on glass? In reply to that question he could only state, that the general principle upon which he had acted was to reduce the duty to such a rate as not injuriously to press upon any particular manufacture, but at the same time to continue so much of it as, by an increased consumption of the article manufactured, should make up for the deficiency which would otherwise be occasioned in the revenue. There was one other topic to which he wished to refer. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the observations which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had made with respect to the spirit of speculation which at present existed, implied an apprehension on his part of some impending calamity. That was not the case. But if in referring to the general prosperity which now seemed to pervade the country, he had not at the same time stated that which he believed to be true, that there were circumstances connected with the spirit of speculation now generally abroad which ought not to create apprehension or alarm, but to excite the attention and vigilance of Parliament—if he had not done this, he thought he might very fairly be accused of having neglected an important part of the duty which attached to one filling his important and responsible situation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that this topic had been recently brought under the consideration of the House when he had stated the course he was prepared to pursue. The facts were in a very narrow compass. By the alteration made in the tea-duties last year, all teas imported after the 1st July next were to be admitted at an equal duty of 2 s d 634 ex parte
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that he had heard of such an experiment, and that the result had been a most signal failure.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose and said: Sir, when it fell to my lot, in the course of the last Session, to make a statement of the financial condition of the country, I was listened to with great, though undeserved, kindness and attention. That indulgence I could only attribute to the consideration shown to one who, for the first time, undertakes such a task, and enters upon his duties as Minister of Finance under most arduous and peculiar circumstances. On the present occasion, I am aware that I cannot advance any claims to a similar indulgence. I know it will be justly considered that if, in the interval that has since passed, I possess and have exerted diligence to seek, and industry to arrange, the materials necessary for a financial statement, I ought now to come before the House fully prepared for the performance of this important duty. While I admit the justice of this principle as swaying the minds of those whom I address, I cannot but feel that this conviction still increases my embarrassment. I have, however, one encouragement. In the statement which I am about to make I am assured of the facts of the case; and if I should be able to lay that statement before the Committee in a simple and intelligible manner, though I cannot offer any greater claims to its attention than the patient industry with which I have collected my materials, and the clearness with which I state them, I feel confident that I shall be as able as I shall be ready to explain any points on which explanation may be required. The course which I propose to pursue on this occasion is—to state, first, the income and expenditure of the last, and the anticipated income and expenditure of the present year; and, secondly, to refer to the comparative amounts of the revenues of the Customs, Excise, Stamps, Post-office, and Taxes, in the two years; and to conclude by making such general observations—and they shall be as few as circumances will permit—as will indicate the internal state of the country. Having given such explanations, it will become my duty to show in what manner I am prepared to deal with any surplus that may be at the disposal of the House, and what are the taxes which I propose as subjects of modification, reduction, or repeal. The difficulties with which I have to deal in this latter part of my task are demonstrated by
 636 637 l l l l l 638 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 639 l l l l l l l l l l l l 640 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 641 l l l l l l maximum 642 l l l l l l 643
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not be tempted by any thing that had occurred in the course of the debate, to enter into the general question of the currency; more especially as the House appeared very anxious for the termination of the discussion. He very much regretted that the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, was no longer in his place. The right hon. Baronet had confirmed the few hints which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had thrown out—not of alarm and distrust, but of caution and prudence; and it afforded him the highest gratification to find that, in the course which he had felt it his duty to pursue, in this part of his statement, he had been supported by the authority of the right hon. Baronet. He entirely concurred with the right hon. Baronet in his estimate of the advantage the country would derive from the repeal of the duty on raw cotton, supposing the state of its revenue admitted of such a reduction. There was not one word of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet on this point in which he did not fully concur; but however desirable he might deem such a reduction to be, he could not, with the amount of surplus he had that
 694 l s l s d 695 Goulburn: 696 The Times, The Globe, The Standard, The Sun, The Morning Advertiser, The Age, The Dispatch, The Courier, The Bell's Weekly Messenger 697 Bell's Messenger,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, two.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the clause he had found in his office contained an express provision that no newspaper should be printed on any sheet or piece of paper exceeding 41 inches in length, and 26 inches in breadth. He had no doubt that his hon. Friend had no more intention of bringing forward this proposition than he had stated to the house. He was perfectly satisfied with his right hon.
 699
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Yes, they were stated to be represented, but no signatures on their part were added to the list which he had read.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not know if he had quite understood the question of the hon. Baronet. He could state that he had placed on the table an estimate of a vote of 78,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he meant to fix the duty on all classes of paper at 1½ d
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the subject was not altogether new to him, and had been already under consideration. The restrictions were in themselves undoubtedly a great evil, and only to be justified with a view to the protection of the revenue. The Ministers were as much interested in the question as any individual Member was, for when the restrictions were rigidly enforced with regard to some persons, and successfully infringed by others, the honest man would be ruined, with profit to the rogue. He should be most glad to receive any communications on this subject, and would give them his careful attention; and if the operation of the regulations could be relaxed in any way, without injury to the revenue, he would readily consent to it.
 Mr. Blamire  was anxious to direct the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the propriety of making certain modifications in those restrictions on the manufacture of malt, which were found to be so onerous and oppressive.
 Mr. Harland  also expressed a hope that the county of Durham would not be deprived of the benefit of its Local Courts.
 Sir John R. Reid  wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman had included relief to the Danish claimants in his Budget.
 Sir Robert Peel  intended to follow the example so wisely set by the Gentlemen who had spoken in the course of this slight discussion, because he thought it exceedingly wise to interpose some interval between hearing the financial statement of a Minister of the Crown, from which they ascertained the amount of surplus revenue that could be fairly applied in the reduction of taxation, and of pronouncing any conclusive opinion in debate, as to the taxes which ought to be selected for reduction. Assuming that there were 500,000 l l 684 l l l 685 686 l 687 688
 The Solicitor-General  said, that at all events, it could not be contended that the Court of Chancery of Durham was not a merely nominal jurisdiction, or that the whole of the extensive machinery of that Court was not utterly useless to the inhabitants of that county. It would be highly injurious that after the abolition of the political jurisdiction of the Bishop, such a large and
 704
 The Solicitor General  said, it could not be contended at this time of day, that the Ecclesiastical dignitary of the county of Durham should be left in possession of those temporal powers and that temporal jurisdiction which belonged to him in former times. The only question, then, was, whether in making that alteration which the Bill proposed to effect and which on all hands, was allowed to be a necessary alteration, they should take that step which the Bill proposed to take. Now, the object of the measure was to place the county of Durham in the same situation as the other counties, and it was absurd to suppose they were doing more in the case of the county of Durham than had already been done with respect to the county palatine of Chester, and the principality of Wales. For his part, he could not understand what advantage was to be derived from the recommittal of the Bill, and he hoped it would be allowed to pass the present stage.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  moved as an amendment that it be recommitted. He strongly objected to that part of the Bill which totally abolished Local Courts in th e County of Durham; for he believed the great majority of the inhabitants of that district were decidedly against their abolition, and he felt it his duty, in the discharge of that duty which he owed his constituents, to move the recommittal of the Bill, in order to the striking out of that objectionable clause.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that it would be his bounden duty to give this clause the most determined opposition in his power. He had presented petitions against it, and he must say that it was a gross and scandalous act of injustice to deprive men of their just emoluments, against whom there did not exist even the pretence of improper conduct. The returns on the Table of the House proved the great advantage to the county of Durham of its Local Courts, and he should therefore move that this clause be expunged from the Bill.
 Mr. Ainswortk  supported the motion. The noble Lord, the Member for Dorset-shire, had not quoted an instance, since the operation of the present Bill, to prove that the present system of factory labour was injurious. Although many hon. Members had spoken in reply to the noble Lord, they had not made any allusion to this point. It had been said that no petitions had been presented from the manufacturers. That might be the case; but there were several deputations from the manufacturing districts now in London, who united in stating, that serious injury would accrue to them and their property if the amended Bill of his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade, should not be carried. As those parties were interested, it might be supposed that their representations would be biassed; but when he stated to the House that they were wholly borne out in their representations by Mr. Rickards, the factory inspector, he trusted that full credit would be given to them. He lived in a populous manufacturing neighbourhood, and was bound to say, that these legislative interferences with labour were vexatious, oppressive, and uncalled for. Further restrictions would only promote additional frauds, while they would tend to ruin the manufacturers by provoking foreign competition. On the continent, where labour was cheap, they laboured for fifteen hours a-day, and as labour was cheap, he considered that they would, but for our unrivalled machinery, soon undersell us. As far as his own observations went, he could state most distinctly that factory labour was neither injurious to the health nor the morals of the children; and he strenuously recommended the House rather to set labour free, than impose on it further restrictions.
 Dr. Lushington  would take the liberty of expressing his opinion upon this subject, notwithstanding he had not the advantage of any personal experience on the working of the system. He remembered Mr. Canning saying, when it was urged that great danger must arise from persons legislating for the West Indies who were not acquainted with West-India society, that they might as well tell him that he was not to take part in legislation respecting the mines of Cornwall, because he had never travelled through the town of Truro. The hon. Member for Kilmarnock had advocated the principle of free trade, as applicable to labour; but what was the
 763
 Colonel Thompson  said, if the manufacturing interest had for twenty years together put a tax on home grown corn, and the result had been that the agricultural labourers had been reduced by competition among themselves to great distress, he wondered whether the agriculturists would have invented no better remedy than asking for an Act to regulate the hours of agricultural labour, to prevent the plough-men, and plough-women, and plough-children from being overworked. He suspected they would have hit upon something much more substantial; he therefore rejoiced that his hon. Friend (Mr. Villiers) had broken the ice upon a topic which he had begun to be afraid had by common consent been banished from the debate. He hoped the manufacturing interest, both operatives and capitalists, would in time see the advantage of turning the tables on their opponents, and that they would not fail to make some use of the parallel he had now supplied to them. Having been applied to by the working classes as one they deemed their friend, he felt some difficulty in deciding how to vote, because whichever way he did it, there were some that would say they had expected better things from him. On the one hand, it would be painful to vote against the expressed opinions of the working classes as to what they thought best for themselves; and on the other, he could not think of doing anything that should be construed into giving in to the miserable delusion which had induced the operatives to accept the Factory Act at the hands of those he must call their adversaries, in lieu of demanding the removal of the prohibition on foreign trade which was at the bottom of their sufferings. He should certainly have voted against the original Factory Act; but since that folly
 767 some
 Mr. Boiling  said, those who like him advocated a moderate system of legislation, were pointed at as persons acting contrary to the dictates of humanity; but that he denied; and he knew it would be believed in the district to which he belonged, that there was nothing he said in the House, which he should not be prepared to assert, maintain, and answer for, out of the House. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had adverted to the gentlemen who came to London as a deputation, charging them with a want of sufficient boldness; but such an accusation came with a bad grace from him, a manufacturer, and well acquainted with those gentlemen, who certainly were not liable to the imputation he was, who, reading the law, and knowing it, yet acted in violation of it, as was shown by the evidence on the Table. He cer-
 778 779
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that although he, for the most part, concurred in the argument of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, he could not concur in the vote he intimated his intention of giving
 787
 Lord Ashley  trusted, that when the House recollected the active part which he took in 1833, with reference to the
 741 742 "An influx of fresh hands from the agricultural districts would be no relief to them (the larger mill-owners), for children entering mills for the first time at thirteen and fourteen years of age never can become expert workers; they must begin at an earlier age." "The tendency of improvement in machinery is more and more to substitute infant for adult labour." "We have found that the number of children employed, are rapidly increasing, in consequence of the tendency of improvements in machinery to throw more and more of work upon children, to the displacement of adult labour."—1st Report, p. 51. "New mills are now erecting in various parts of the country, and many old ones being at the same time enlarged Of improved, more and more hands will consequently be wanted; the demand for children will proportionally increase." 743 "I cannot, however, bring myself to believe that this determination will be carried to the extent threatened, because it appears to me that, as a general measure, masters will be unable to furnish themselves with the required substitutes; but that it will be generally attempted and partially executed I cannot doubt, and that much inconvenience and injury will be the result." "In Scotland (where the hours are somewhat longer than in England), complaints of children uniform—'sick, tired, especially in the winter nights;' 'feels so tired, she throws herself down when she goes home, not caring what she does.' 'She looks on the long hours as a great bondage; thinks they are not much better than the Israelites in Egypt, and their life is no pleasure to them.' 'Are the hours to be shortened,' earnestly demanded one of these girls of the Commissioner who was examining her, 'for they are too long?' These statements were confirmed by the evidence of the adult operatives. 'The young workers are absolutely oppressed, and so tired as to be unable to sit down or rise up; so tired, that they often cannot raise their hands to their heads! 'The children, when engaged in their regular work, are often exhausted beyond what can be expressed.' 'The sufferings of the children absolutely require that the hours should be shortened.' An over looker states,—'Hours of labour too long; has twenty-four boys under his charge, from nine to fourteen years old, gene-
 744 "The children bore the long hours very ill indeed; exhausted in body and mind by the length of the hours and height of the temperature. I found when I was an overlooker (says one) that after the children, from eight to twelve years, had worked eight, nine, or ten hours, they were nearly ready to faint; some were asleep; some were only kept to work by being spoken to, or by a little chastisement, to make them jump up. I was sometimes obliged to chastise them when they were almost fainting, and it hurt my feelings; then they would spring up and work pretty well for another hour; but the last two or three hours was my hardest work, for they then got so exhausted. I always found it more difficult to keep my piecers awake the last hours of a winter's evening. I have told the master, and I have been told by him, that I did not half hide them. This was when they worked from six to eight. I have seen them fall asleep, and they have been performing their work with their hands while they were asleep, after the billy had stopped, when their work was over. I have stopped and looked on them for two minutes going through the motions of piecening, fast asleep, when there was really no work to do." "Pains in the limbs, back, loins, and side are frequent, but not so frequent as fatigue and drowsiness. Girls suffer from pain more commonly than boys, and up to a more advanced age; occasionally men, and not unfrequently young women, and women beyond the meridian of life, complain of pain; yet there is evidence that the youngest children are so distressed by pains in their feet, in consequence of their long-standing, that they sometimes throw off their shoes, and so take cold. "'I have seen children,' says a Leicestershire witness, 'under eighteen years of age, before six at night; their legs have hurt them to that degree that they have many a time been crying. The long standing gives them swelled feet and ancles, and fatigues them so much that sometimes they do not know how to get to their bed. Night and morning their legs swell.' That this affection is common (says the General Report) is confirmed by the concurrent testimony of parents, operators, overlookers, and managers." 745 "In conclusion, I think it has been clearly proved that children have been worked a most unreasonable and cruel length of time, daily, and that even adults have been expected to do a certain quantity of labour, which scarcely any human being is able to endure. I am of opinion no child, under fourteen years of age, should work in a factory of any description, more than eight hours a-day. From fourteen upwards, I would recommend that no individual should, under any circumstances, work more than twelve hours a-day; although, if practicable as a physician, I would prefer the limitation of ten hours for all persons who earn their bread by their industry." "Although all the sources of immediate and prospective suffering may be so far remedied or mitigated, as to render twelve hours of factory work compatible with average health and longevity, yet I am of opinion that less labour ought to be required from the infant workers, and that more time should be allowed them for sleep, recreation, and the improvement of their minds, than they at present enjoy." "I am compelled to declare my deliberate opinion, that no child should be employed in factory labour below the age of ten; that no individual, under the age of eighteen, should be engaged in it longer than ten hours daily, and that it is highly desirable to procure a still further diminution of the hours of labour for children below thirteen years of age. "Again, as to the reduction of hours for all below eighteen, I feel the less distrust in my own opinion, because it is sanctioned by a large majority of eminent medical men, practising in this district (Lancashire). "This Bill does not accomplish the object at which it purports to aim. Its professed object is the protection of children, but it does not protect children. In the same evidence, which shows that the legislative protection of children is necessary, it is also shown that the restriction of the labour of children to ten hours a day is not an adequate protection."—p. 32. 746 ✶ "That this successive fatigue, privation of sleep, pain in various parts of the body, and swelling of the feet, experienced by the young workers, coupled with the constant standing, the peculiar attitudes of the body, and the peculiar motions of the limbs, required in the labour of the factory; together with the elevated temperature and impure atmosphere in which that labour is often carried on, do sometimes ultimately terminate in the production of serious, permanent, and incurable disease, appears to us to be established." "That until the commencement of the fourteenth year, the hours of labour during any one day, shall not in any case exceed eight, and they justified the proposition by saying, the grounds on which we recommend the above restriction on hours of labour are—1st. 'that at that age, the period of childhood properly so called ceases, and puberty is established.' "2nd. 'That, ingeneral, at or about the fourteenth year, young persons are no longer treated as children; for the most part they cease to be under the complete control of their parents and guardians—they begin to retain a part of their wages, they usually make their own contracts, and are, in the proper sense of the words, free agents.'" 747 748
 Lord Francis Egerton  felt altogether disinclined to join with those who attempted to throw discredit on the course taken by his Majesty's Government, although, at the same time, he entertained the opinion that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman who acted as its organ was by no means adequate to meet the defects which the existing law permitted. His intention was to vote in favour of the original motion; but, following the example of his right hon. friend, the Member for Tamworth, he would not pledge himself to be confined by the precise terms of the amendments, the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, had in contemplation. He would only further observe, that he should be very apprehensive of any measure upon the subject under consideration, which left out of view the question of foreign competition.
 Mr. Hindley , having presented many petitions on this question, he trusted the House would allow him to give his reasons for opposing the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. Though he was aware that the question of the propriety or impropriety of legislating on the subject was not necessarily involved in the proposition, yet—as many hon. Members seemed to have doubts upon the subject, he would for a moment advert to it. The opinion of Gentlemen engaged in trade had under-
 768 Laissez nous faire; "He believed it would throw these districts into great confusion. Overworking would be generally, if not universally, practised. Children would be devoid of that legislative protection which has hitherto done much good and is calculated to do more. The excesses of former times will be renewed; and at some future period we may have to recommence our labours under increased difficulties and disadvantages." "In visiting the mills in my district, I have been pleased to find instances in which the Act has been acknowledged to work benefit, by limiting the hours of the children, and more particularly by putting a stop to their working in the night." 769 i.e. "Ought we to allow a portion of our fellow-subjects to be rendered miserable for such a consideration? No. It would be better to give up the cotton trade altogether than to draw such a sum out of the blood and bones and sinews of these unfortunate children. The Legislature was bound to protect them." ✶ ✶ 770 "The Commissioners are of opinion that, with regard to children under fourteen years of age, the Bill of the noble Lord does not go far enough. They are of opinion that children under fourteen should not work more than eight hours a-day." 771 772 773 s s. 774 "In order to ascertain the state of health of the youthful factory classes, compared with youth in other conditions, I made a careful examination of the Bennett-street Sunday School, at Manchester, in which abundance of all trades exists. I accordingly took an account of 350 of both sexes not engaged in factories, and of 350 of both sexes engaged in factories. Of the former, several remain at home and do nothing; some are in service; some are dress-makers; some engaged in warehouses and shops. Their age varied from nine years to twenty for the most part. Of the 350 not in factories, twenty-one had bad health, eighty-eight had middling health, and 241 had good health; but of 350 in factories, seventy-three had bad health, 134 had middling health, and 143 had good health. "Again, at the St. Augustine's Sunday School, at Manchester, I compared fifty boys engaged in factories, with fifty boys not in factories; some of whom lived at home doing nothing, while others were engaged in shops and in various trades. Of the fifty not in factories, one had bad health, eighteen had middling health, and thirty-one had good health; but of the fifty in factories, thirteen had bad health, nineteen had middling health, and eighteen had good health. "It will be seen that the advantage of health is at least double at these institutions on the side of those young people who are not engaged in factory work. The information afforded towards this comparison by the registers of sick clubs or benefit societies, is not conclusive, since these sick clubs usually contain all classes indiscriminately. The average quantity of illness for every member of the Bennett School Sick Club, during the year 1832, was one week, one day, and six hours; but about one-half of this club is composed of youth not engaged in factories. It appears to me also, that factory children are usually very slow in coming on the sick list of these clubs; they usually go on working to the last possible moment, so eager are the parents to secure their wages!" 775
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  assured the House, that he was most anxious to cooperate with hon. Gentlemen opposite in any measure likely to render the law on this subject operative and effectual. The great evil of the law, as it at present stood, was, that it had thrown a large number of children out of work. The number stated was 25,000, and the statement had not been contradicted; that was an evil which, for the sake of the children, ought to be remedied. If the Bill went into Committee, he should be most willing to lend his best attention to any amendments which might be proposed in respect to
 788
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he should have merely moved the second reading of the Bill, and then waited to hear and answer objections to it, if he had not wished to remove some misconception, which had gone abroad, respecting its nature. He was the more surprised at this misconception, because the measure seemed to speak plainly for itself. It consisted of but a single clause; and anybody who knew the provisions of the Act at present in force, or who had attended to the discussions in Parliament upon it, would find it perfectly clear that the only object he had in view was the repeal of one section in that Act, and to place the law regarding factories in the same situation as that in which it stood on the 1st March last. A Bill had formerly been introduced,
 738 739 d. 740
 Mr. Charles Villiers  could not admit that the present was a question between wealth and health. He thought that these factory regulations proceeded on the false principle that the poor were more indifferent to the welfare and happiness of their children than the rich, an assumption which his experience led him to deny. The promoters of this Bill were acting on a principle which must strike at the root of the domestic government of the poor, for the Bill deprived parents of the right to dispose of the time of their children to the best advantage. He was as anxious for the protection of the factory children as any other hon. Member of that House, but he thought, nevertheless, that there were many objectionable points in the proposition before the House. It went the length of saying to the parents of children, "Your necessities drive you to send your children to work, yet we will deprive you of that power of augmenting the means of subsistence for your family, without, at the same time, providing you with a substi-
 766
 Mr. Baines  said, that he had been the whole of his life among factory labourers, and he would take upon himself to say, that there was not a set of children in this kingdom better fed, better clothed, better lodged, and more healthy than the children in the factories. Did Gentlemen on the
 764
 Mr. Finch  differed, with regret, from the right hon. Member for Tamworth, for he was convinced that the Bill ought to be negatived. In voting against it, however, he did it with the hope, that a really efficient measure would speedily be brought forward.
 Mr. Benett  could never for a moment admit that any loss which the manufacturers might sustain ought to be put in comparison with injury to the health and and morals of the children employed in the manufactories. He had seen a great deal of the manufacturing districts and towns; and his own observation, no less than the evidence which had been heard before the Committee, convinced him that children between twelve and thirteen years of age could not be employed for the number of hours in the day which the Bill before the House allowed them to be employed, without great detriment to their health and morals. Much was said of the danger of throwing so many children of that age out of employment. How could such a danger exist, when new factories were starting up in every quarter, and such a rivalship was created among them? On the contrary, he believed that at present children of the age in question could earn more in eight hours than they formerly did in twelve. Nothing, in his
 753
 Dr. Bowring  gave the hon. Member for Wiltshire all honour for his sympathy with, and interference in favour of, the labouring population. But if it appeared that the hon. Gentleman's opposition to the Bill before the House would be injurious instead of beneficial to that population, then his opposition lost all claims to justification. He mistrusted that interference on behalf of the poor which the poor were themselves to pay for; and would never lend himself to those delusions by which the meritorious classes of society were taught to believe that their wages, like everything else, did not depend on supply and demand. Let the question be presented to them honestly and fairly. Let the parents of factory children know—but they know it well—that the diminishing the hours of daily toil must inevitably diminish the amount of weekly pay. To protect them, as it was called, was merely to protect them against the comforts which the two hours additional labour would purchase. Certainly, there were cases of hardship and oppression, but he disliked all legislative interference between master and man—between parent and child and doubted whether the evils it brought with it were not greater than any promised good;—moreover, all such interference would be unsuccessful, and thwarted by common consent of all interested parties. What had every speaker confessed? Why, that the laws were trampled on—that the regulations were not obeyed—that the Act of Parliament could not be enforced! Why continue in this course of helpless legislation? Why struggle, perpetually, to maintain a state of things which the common interest overthrew? What was the use of laws to which no power could give effect? Happi-
 754 minimum 755
 Mr. John Fielden  could not suffer this debate to close without offering a few observations to the House; for if there was any subject discussed in that House, which he (Mr. Fielden) was acquainted with, it was this one, as he was so extensively engaged in manufactures himself, that he could not but thoroughly understand the necessities and condition of the working people engaged in them. The hon. Member for Bolton had boasted of the superior condition of the factory hands of Bolton over other classes living in that borough; but before he would listen to the comparison, he must know what was the condition of the people against whom the hon. Member compared the factory hands. Now, he happened to recollect that a Committee of this House had sat for two years to examine into the condition of the hand-loom
 780 781 782
 Mr. Poulter  seconded the amendment. He observed with great regret that the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, had introduced a measure of a partial character to abrogate the law as it now stood. If the fears of the right hon. Gentleman were well founded there would be petitions sent up against the law
 749 in loco parentum. 750
 Mr. Brotherton , conversant as he was with the manufacturing districts hoped he might be excused for trespassing for a short time on the House. The attention of Parliament had been frequently called to the condition of the manufacturing population. Various Acts had been passed on the subject. He confessed that by some of those Acts the condition of children working in factories had been much ameliorated; but much remained to be done. He considered it to be the bounden duty of the Legislature to regard, in all their proceedings, the physical, the moral, and the intellectual condition of the great mass of the people; and he could never believe that the prosperity of this or of any country could depend on the continued violation of the principles of justice and humanity. Let any one who was well acquainted with the subject get up and say that the number of hours of working proposed by the right hon. Gentleman's Bill was not too much. He knew a good deal of the matter, and he said unequivocally that the labour was too much for children to bear. When they considered that 400,000 or 500,000 persons were labouring from half-past five or six o'clock in the morning till eight or nine o'clock at night, and this, not upon a few particular occasions only, but day after day, week after week, and year after year, he asked whether any person professing the Christian religion would stand up as the advocate of such a system, or would express a wish that such a state of things should continue? He begged the House to consider how frightful that state of society must be in which so many hundreds of thousands of human beings were regarded merely as machines, or instruments of labour, out of which the utmost possible degree of exertion should be extorted. Of what benefit was constant enployment if opportunities were
 756 757 l. 758 759 760 l.
 Mr. Potter  supported the motion, and observed that the importation of cottonwool into Great Britain in 1815, was 371,000 bales, while the importation and consumption of France and other States of Europe was inconsiderable, and the cotton manufacture of America quite insignificant. In 1832, the consumption of cotton-wool in Great Britain was 865,000 bales; in the same year that of America was 173,000 bales, of France 272,463 bales, and of other States of Europe 200,000; making in all 646,263 bales, being nearly double what was imported into Great Britain only seventeen years before, and two-third parts of what was imported into Great Britain in
 765
 Mr. Gisborne  was desirous of stating the views which he entertained on this subject. He greatly admired the temperate and candid manner in which the noble Lord had expressed his sentiments respecting it, and he trusted that he (Mr. Gisborne) should be influenced by the same spirit, and give no utterance to any party feeling or sarcasm. Whenever the noble Lord's Bill should come before the House again, the House would give it the most serious consideration. But he might perhaps be allowed to doubt whether the Legislature at this protracted period of the session, would be disposed to make so
 751 752
 Mr. Wakley  said, it was evident that a conspiracy had long existed to evade the provisions of the Factory Act, and the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, instead of endeavouring to enforce its provisions more effectually, now came down with a Bill to destroy one of the most important parts of the Act. He hoped and trusted that the House would, upon every principle of sound justice and humanity, reject such a proposition.
 Sir John Elley  said, that although he had not, like the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines), visited the manufacturing towns lately, he could not say, that he had ever witnessed in them a redundancy of health. When there was a scarcity of employment man of the labourers inhabiting them entered the army, and having had some experience in recruiting, he must say he would never go to a manufacturing district to select grenadiers. The pursuits and mode of living of these men rendered their physical powers inferior to those of other portions of the male population who were differently engaged. A recruiting officer would reject five out of every ten men from a manufacturing district, while in a rural district he would not reject a greate proportion than one in ten.
 Sir Robert Inglis  congratulated his Majesty's Government that they had at last got a gentleman who was connected with the manufacturing interest to rise and support their present proposition; for only
 761 Mark Philips
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to separate the appeal which the hon. Member for Oldham had made to the reason and deliberate judgment of the House, from that which he had made to their passions; an appeal, he must say, however, which, standing as the hon. Gentleman did, free from the imputation of all interested motives, came from him with peculiar grace. There was no speech that had been delivered that night, however creditable it was to the hon. Gentleman who pronounced it, that had so great an effect in convincing him of the impropriety of acceding to this motion, as the speech of the hon. Member for Oldham, unless, indeed, it was that of the hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Hindley). What was the result of the argument of that hon. Member, a Bill passed in 1833, which provided that the children under the age of thirteen should not work more than eight hours a-day in cotton factories. That Bill assumed, that there could be two relays of children, and the mills might consequently work sixteen hours a-day, The hon. Gen-
 783 784 b 785 786
 Mr. O'Connell —I beg to say in one
 807 ex parte
 Mr. O'Connell : On behalf of the Dublin Steam-packet Company, I now move, Sir, for leave to bring in a bill, notwithstanding that the period has elapsed, when by the standing orders this should have been done. In this case a bill was some time since brought into the House, and upon the third reading it was rejected, on the ground that this body corporate were not individually responsible for the additional subscriptions to be made. On that account alone, I say, the bill was rejected. The Dublin Steam-packet Company had previously to this, entered into and made contracts to the amount of 137,000 l 804
 Mr. Randall Plunkett:  I rise to second the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. I believe that an opinion has gone abroad that in this instance the responsibility of the Dublin Steam-packet
 805 l l
 Sir George Clerk  said, the question before them was whether sufficient had been shown by the hon. Members who introduced and supported this motion for violating the standing orders of the House-Here was a Bill that was rejected by the House, and with a slight alteration introduced again at that late period of the session, with no other recommendation than the statements of interested individuals. If the House were to agree to such a proposition, as well might they legislate on the presentation of a petition. The Bill on the former occasion had been opposed by numerous influential parties, who had the trouble of attending, but who were not prepared for its being brought forward a second time. He thought there should be a minute inquiry instituted before the motion was acceded to. He would oppose the granting leave to introduce the Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell : the hon. Member accuses me of having stated that this company had entered into a contract with the Post-office, and that that was what induced them to build additional steam-vessels, one word of which never escaped my lips; but some observations were made during the discussion which would bear that import, but the hon. Member was so puzzled and confused that he could not distinguish one from another. He (Mr. O'Connell) considered that he had much reason to complain, and complain bitterly at the hostility he had met with on introducing this motion, which should have been reserved until the Bill was on the table, and then they might with propriety have stated their objections, and it would be his (Mr. O'Connell's) duty to explain and remove them. Let the Bill be brought before the House, and if it did not contain the principle of an unlimited responsibility on the part of every shareholder to the full extent of his property, reject it; but do not on mere form and technicalities defeat a measure calculated to impart so many advantages to Ireland. Hon. Members were often heard to indulge in what he (Mr. O'Connell) would not term "cant," about the introduction of capital info Ireland; here was an opportunity of doing so, not experimentally but practically, and he
 812
 Colonel Chichester  was anxious to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, which, although not on the all-engrossing subject of the ladies, was nevertheless of very great importance. He wished to know whether it was the intention of Government this Session to propose any measure for the better relief and maintenance of pauper lunatics in England and Wales—an un-fortunate class of persons, most inadequately and improperly provided for under the present system.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  opposed the motion, because he thought it absurd to call for the production of twenty quarto volumes, which must be copied and printed before they could be laid before the House, and which, if the information they contained were of any value at all, ought to be in the hands of Members at the present moment.
 Mr. Parrot  proposed the introduction of the following proviso:—"That the said Commissioners shall make a deduction, after the rate of 10 l l
 Mr. Grantly Berkeley  inquired whether it was the intention of Government to make provision for the accommodation of ladies in the Strangers' gallery, in pursuence of the report of the Select Committee, approved by the House, before the first of June, because in that case he should beg to withdraw the motion of which he had given notice, for an address to his Majesty on the subject this evening.
 Lord Francis Egerton —I certainly feel that the explanation of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin has removed the chief objection which very properly attached to this Bill, and therefore I hope that the House will accede to the motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. I am aware that in the instance of the introduction of some great measure, involving very complicated details, it would be a good and valid objection to urge the late period of the session, or the noncompliance with the standing orders of the House; but I confess I do not think that such a line of argument holds good in the present case. Now it appears to me, from what I know of the objects of the Bill, that the principle of non-liability does not extend to it, but that, on the contrary, the parties who may take an interest in the company under this new Bill will be fully and perfectly liable and responsible to an unlimited extent. When this company came before the House on a late occasion, they asked for permission to increase their capital on a limited responsibility; they did so in accordance with privileges which they already were in possession of. This was objected to by those who thought their interests might be affected by it, and the Bill was thrown out. Aware of the great private inconvenience it would cause, as respected contracts previously entered into, in expectation of no exception being taken to the measure, and also of the injury it would inflict on Ireland, the parties now come again before the House, removing, as they conceive, all grounds of objection, and now they are met with a like hostility to that which defeated the former Bill. Against such a mode of proceeding I do protest; and I confess it does appear to me to be somewhat inconsistent to hear hon. Gentlemen regretting the deficiency of capital in Ireland, and now, when it is sought to be introduced there by a company which it has been
 808
 Lord John Russell  did not think it advisable that the question should again be submitted to debate and division, the resolutions of the hon. Member having been already twice acceded to by the House; and accordingly Government was ready to propose an estimate on the subject. Still it was out of his power to fix the 1st of June for the completion of the arrangements; indeed, he did not very well see how they could be completed before the recess.
 Lord John Russell  opposed the amendment on the ground that it appeared to introduce a new principle into the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  would not now discuss the objection of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard to the 34th Clause. He had admitted the principle of the 33rd Clause, and had likewise admitted the necessity of modification of that principle. The House had first to discuss the amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet opposite, and afterwards discuss the amendment which he (Lord John Russell) had proposed in the whole clause. When the discussion as to the mode in which the whole tithe should be apportioned among the different tenants in the parish came to be discussed, he thought it would be quite right that some words should be introduced declaratory that that apportionment should be made with reference to the productive value and quality of the land, but the present was a very different question. The object of the present clause was, to ascertain the actual average value of the tithe for the last seven years on each estate; he did not, therefore, think that the amendment of the right hon. Baronet had any application whatever to that object.
 Lord John Russell  thought, that there would be no time at which a proposition could be made for a commutation of tithes when something of this kind must not happen. You might certainly suppose, that the produce of some land would be worth now 80 s s s s s s
 Lord John Russell : Once for all.
 Lord John Russell  placed in the hands of the Chairman the 33d Clause, as it was proposed to be amended. It was in the following terms:—
 "And be it enacted, that in every case in which the Commissioners shall intend making such award, notice thereof shall be given in such manner as to them shall seem fit; and after the expiration of twenty-one days, after
 819
 Lord John Russell  thought the Motion was unnecessary, as, according to his hon. Friend's own statement, these documents were not difficult of access to any one. In the next place, he saw no more reason for copying them at the expense of the country than he did for copying the parish registers of any part of the kingdom, or those documents of a similar nature in the Rolls Chapel, the Tower, and other depositories of them. If his hon. Friend's motion was acceded to, it would afford a plea and a precedent for other hon. Members to move for other records of the same character; and, in the end, all the records in the kingdom might be moved for by that means. The noble Lord concluded by moving, as an Amendment, that the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee on the Tithes Commutation Bill, be read.
 Lord John Russell  was quite ready to admit that the clauses in the new Poor Law Act with respect to pauper lunatics had occasioned some inconvenience, and perhaps not a little suffering, to that unfortunate class of persons; at the same time, until he had fully consulted the Poor Law Commissioners on the subject, he could not pledge himself to bring in any Bill during the present Session.
 Lord John Russell  did not, of course, mean to preclude the adoption of that course. The view he took of the question was, that the House having twice affirmed the resolution that the gallery should be erected, the Government should, in deference to that decision, propose an estimate
 813
 Lord John Russell  said, with respect to the latter part of the question, his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already reduced the rate of interest on any advances which might be made for the building of workhouses from 5 l l 814
 Lord John Russell  thought that it would be a violation of the principle of the Bill, if land under the circumstances stated in the proviso should be totally exempted from tithe. He might mention that it would be only in Staffordshire the proposed exemption would operate. And he did not
 825
 Mr. Charles Buller , from what had passed during this discussion, had been more than ever convinced how great a waste of time there was in discussing the details of a measure before the House was agreed upon its principle. The wise and honest principle of the 33d Clause was rendered null and of no effect by Clause 34. If it were not for that clause, he should give the Bill his earnest support. What we wanted was, not to lower or raise, but to fix tithe, and this object the clause would effect. It took the voluntary compositions which had been made by different parties in the country, who might be supposed to have generally dealt fairly with each other, as a basis for a compulsory commutation. For these reasons it was, that he supported the principle of commutation. But the whole object of the present clause was defeated by the provisions of the next—the 34th Clause; and when that clause came under consideration he should feel it his duty to take the sense of the House upon it. As to the amendment of
 823
 Mr. George F. Young  was sorry that those who supported this motion did not follow the example and exercise the discretion of the hon. and learned Member
 811 l l
 Mr. Warburton  could not understand the objection of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard to the 34th Clause, which had for its object an appeal against the decision of the Commissioners. Did the hon. and learned Gentleman mean to say, that the determination of those Commissioners ought to be final without any appeal?
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he was strongly in favour of the amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Edward Knatchbull), and that upon the very grounds upon which the noble Lord had said, that when they came to the clause for apportioning the whole tithe among the different cultivators of the parish, he would introduce words to the effect of those contained in the amendment of the right hon. Baronet. And why? Because the same reason which induced the noble Lord to adopt such a principle with respect to the apportionment of the charge of the whole tithe of a parish among the tithe payers was equally applicable as between parish and parish in the general application of the principle of tithe to the whole kingdom. For suppose a parish
 824
 Doctor Bowring : I trust that the House will not indirectly sanction a principle which they have refused to do directly. The hon. and learned Member has told us, that this company has entered into contracts for the supply of steam-vessels, which I contend they ought not to have done; and in spite of the representations of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, I am opposed to this measure. It is quite certain that in this case, a number of persons with unlimited responsibility are to be grafted on those who have the limited responsibility. I will not, however, at the present moment detail the objections which I entertain to this measure; but, under all the circumstances, I really think that the better mode of proceeding for this House to adopt will be, altogether to reject the Bill at once. Let the parties come before us again, if they think fit to do so, in the next Session of Parliament.
 Mr. Plumptre  observed, that in the county which he had the honour to represent, some lands were over-cultivated, some were under-cultivated, and some were out of cultivation altogether. How was this plan to be made applicable to all?
 Mr. Richards  moved the addition of the following proviso: — "Provided always, and be it enacted, that in case any part of the lands in the parish shall at any time be broken up and the surface destroyed and rendered unproductive, by the operations of raising and getting coal, iron, stone, and other mines and minerals, or for the erection of any works for converting the same, that the rent-charge imposed as hereinbefore provided, shall on the breaking up or converting of the surface of such land as aforesaid, abate in the proportion of the extent of land so rendered unproductive, and that such rent-charge shall accrue only on such land being restored and brought into cultivation."
 Mr. Hume  thought, then, that it was extremely unjust that an average of the last seven years should he taken as the basis of the rent-charge upon the land, not merely during the occupation of it by the present possessor, but ever after.
 Mr. Hume : Will the noble Lord allow me to ask him whether his applotment is to be made once for all, or from time to time?
 Mr. Hume  thought it would be better to refer the whole question to the Railways Committee.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise at the disinclination of the noble Lord to consent
 817
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord whether this average was to be taken on a valuation of the last seven years' produce in all cases? If this were the intention of the clause, the consequence would be, that the commutation, which was to be made first in corn and then in money, would have a very injurious effect in a great number of instances. Suppose the price of corn to fall permanently, as it probably would, in that case lands of an inferior quality, which were now cultivated for the purpose of raising corn, would be thrown out of cultivation, and would probably be laid down for grass lands. It would then he extremely unjust to saddle such land with a permanent tithe composition, calculated when wheat was 6 s s s s s 820
 Mr. Pease  supported the Bill.
 Mr. Lennard  observed, that in many parts of Essex there were lands now in the course of cultivation to raise wheat which the occupiers were on the point of relinquishing as corn lands, and if corn was reduced in price, they would be laid down in grass, and it would be an extreme hardship to impose on those districts a permanent composition for the tithe of land on the average of the last seven years, which afterwards might produce nothing more than a second-rate crop of grass. The only unobjectionable plan would be, to abstain from making this measure uniform, and in the cases he had referred to, to ascertain what proportion tithe had borne to rent, and to fix the composition accordingly—a plan which would not make the tithe a part of the rent.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  replied, that his motion went merely to have the papers laid upon the Table of the House. He had no wish to cast a reflection on any one, particularly the Archbishop of Canterbury, but he thought that these public documents should be in the possession of the House. He felt that the production of them was of so much importance, that he should certainly take the sense of the House upon the question.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, that he did not feel disposed to accede to the suggestion of the noble Lord for postponing his motion relative to the Parliamentary Surveys of the Church Lands; preserved in the library of Lambeth Palace. Those documents were of the greatest importance now that the question of tithes was under the consideration of the House, inasmuch as they formed the connecting link between the value of that property to which they referred as given in the King's books and its actual value at the present time. They had been made by order of the long Parliament—consequently they were the property of Parliament, and moreover the Archbishop of Canterbury admitted, that they were deposited with him—that he was the keeper of them—for the Parliament. He thought it necessary that they should be in every hon. Member's hands, embracing as they did much valuable information on a subject under discussion in Parliament, in place of individuals having to pay two guineas for a single extract to the Archbishop's Secretary, which they were now obliged to pay He did not see how any objection could be made to his Motion, and he trusted he should have the House with him in making it. The hon. Member concluded by moving for a copy of the Parliamentary Surveys of Church Lands, preserved in the Library of Manuscripts at Lambeth.
 Mr. Blamire  was glad to hear the hon. Member for Somersetshire admit the justice of the principle of the clause, and he thought his objections to the wording of the clause might be removed by a slight alteration in its wording.
 Mr. Blamire  considered, that the plan proposed by the noble Lord was the best that could, under the circumstances, be devised, and in his opinion, that which the right hon. Baronet had moved by way of amendment was open to much graver objections. The principle of this clause had already been carried into effect in many voluntary compositions, that had been entered into in various parts of the country, but at the same time he must admit, that after all had been done that was possible to be done, there would be many cases that would press on individuals. But the hon. Member for Middlesex should also bear in mind, that some parties would be greatly benefitted by this settlement. Many lands which were about to be brought into cultivation would remain unimproved till this settlement was made, and the gain on these lands would be considerable. To be sure that would be no satisfaction to the man who should lose by the arrangement, but in the settlement of a great question, some such losses were unavoidable.
 Mr. Tooke  opposed it, and moved an instruction to the Committee "to introduce clauses for relieving, under proper restrictions, railway and other public companies from unconscionable contracts extorted from them by landowners as the price of their assent."
 Mr. Tooke  withdrew his amendment.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was not able to persuade himself, that an average for the last seven years, where it could be taken, would give that fair test which it was desirable to ascertain. It was quite clear, that such a standard must operate favourably or un-
 821
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  had the misfortune on this subject to differ in opinion from the hon. Member for West Glocester-shire; the question, he contended, should again undergo consideration in Committee, and when the estimate was submitted to the House, it would be quite competent for hon. Members to negative the whole proposition.
 Mr. Mark Philips —I confess, Sir, it does appear to me after all that has been said, that this is a sort of nondescript liability, and that the result of passing this measure will be, that a great difficulty will be created in ascertaining in a satisfactory manner, hereafter, the difference which may exist between those of the shareholders who enjoy a limited or an unlimited responsibility; for the parties will be continually purchasing and exchanging their shares, and in that way both will be released from all responsibility. Now, I should like to have further information on this part of the subject. The powers sought for under the Act are extensive, and if vested in large companies like that now before the House, will be likely to retard the intercourse between the two countries by raising the passage money. This is the opinion which I strongly urged upon the committee which sat in the year 1833, upon the application then made to the House for a Bill connected with this company.
 Sir Henry Parnell : I do not see upon what just grounds we are called upon to accede to the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. I cannot conceive, Sir, upon what principle or how it is that we can pass one Act of Parliament, containing the principle of non-liability, and another Act by which we are to get rid of that responsibility. What is the construction to be put upon this Act? Much has been said of the advantages conferred on Ireland by this company. I may admit that fact; but it is my opinion, that if there had been no legislation whatever of this kind, there would have been no want of capital, or of the power of investing it for the promotion of steam-navigation in Ireland. The whole of such legislation is founded on false principles. The true principle seems to be overlooked—that where there is security for making profits, capital will be there employed, and it needs no encouragement.
 The Attorney-General  would not deny that they were public records, but objected to their being printed by an order of that House. It would be equally reasonable for any hon. Member to move that Doomsday Book, which was public property, should be printed, and laid upon the Table of the House.
 Mr. Jervis  maintained the expediency of producing these surveys.
 Sir John Wrottesley  had at first been disposed to think, that the valuation of tithes ought to proceed on the principle suggested by the right hon. Baronet (Sir E. Knatchbull), but subsequent reflection induced him to think, that the plan proposed by the noble Lord would be more equal and more just. He knew not, indeed, why the particular period of seven years should be selected as that on which the average should be taken. Seeing that the farmers throughout the country now generally pursued the system called four.
 822
 Sir Michael Shaw Stewart —I am very sorry again to put myself forward to oppose the introduction of this Bill, but I am compelled to do so as a matter of public duty; and without following; the advice of the hon. and learned Gentleman, or troubling the House by any lengthened observations in support of my
 806 l
 Sir Robert Inglis  expressed a hope, that as the House had once negatived the proposition last Session, when it came to be re-considered in Committee, it would still meet a similar fate.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  hoped the noble Secretary for the Home Department would answer another question he had to put, connected with the Poor Law Amendment Bill, with respect to money advanced to unions for the building of workhouses. He wished to know whether Government would extend the period for repayment from ten to fourteen or twenty years; and also whether they would allow a reduction of the interest payable on the loan below 4 l
 Mr. William Miles  approved of the principle of the clause, as he supposed it was intended that the valuation should be made on the produce of land under good cultivation; but unless some alteration were made in the wording of the clause, the valuers would have to calculate the average upon the actual state of the land.
 Viscount Clements  considered the hostility with which the motion before the House had been met, was quite uncalled for. What were the facts of the case? This Company were desirous of increasing their capital for the purposes of their business, and in doing so they availed themselves of the privileges which they enjoyed under their Bill. That was dissented from, and their application was rejected. They then came before the House a
 810
 Viscount Sandon : I am one of those who are of opinion that all these matters are much better and more properly discussed whenever the Bill shall be brought fairly before the House, and I therefore hope that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin will be allowed to bring it in. When we consider the real benefits that this company has conferred upon Ireland, fulfilling what we have always in this House said should be done by encouraging the industry of that country, I think that we should regard it favourably. It appears to me that it would be rather hard to make the Company pay for any indiscretion they might have committed in regard to the former Bill by the rejection of this. The House rejected the former Bill because it allowed the Company to add 300,000 l
 Mr. Lefroy  rose to oppose the third reading, and objected to the House being called upon to pass a Bill for Ireland, which conferred a power on Roman Catholic clergymen which was not possessed by Roman Catholic clergymen in England, nor by Dissenting clergymen in either England or Ireland. He (Mr. Lefroy) had no objection to support a general Marriage Act for Ireland; but he could not give his sanction to a partial measure like that then under consideration, which professed to remedy one evil, whilst at the same time it introduced others of greater magnitude. The Bill then before the House went to repeal the only security which the Protestants of Ireland had for preventing clandestine marriages. The Marriage Act known in England as Lord Hardwicke's Act, did not extend to Ireland. The objects of that Act were, 1st, to prevent clandestine marriages, and, 2dly, to preserve the evidence of marriage with a view to civil rights. These objects were obtained in Ireland (though imperfectly), 1st, by the law of the Church, and, 2dly, by the provisions of the very Act of Parliament which it was now sought to repeal. The protection which the law of the Church afforded was as follows:—In the first place, no clergyman of the Established Church can celebrate a marriage without banns having been
 827 828
 Colonel Perceval  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Lynch  said, the object of the Bill was to remove a defect in the marriage law in Ireland, which was productive of the most unfortunate consequences. As the law now stood a marriage between a Romanist and a Protestant, if celebrated by a clergyman of the former persuasion, was invalid. It frequently happened that villains took advantage of this law in order to gratify their base passions, and then abandoned their victims, who had supposed that they were legally married, to a life of shame, and bastardized their offspring. The marriage law in Ireland at the present time was in the same barbarous state in which the marriage law of England was previously to the introduction of Lord Hardwicke's Act. In Scotland, marriages between a Protestant and Roman Catholic were valid although celebrated by a Roman Catholic clergyman. Why should not that be the case in Ireland also? He called upon the House to pass the Bill, not for the sake of Roman Catholics alone, but of Protestants also, for both classes were equally interested in the question. What was the ground upon which the House was called upon to maintain the existing law? It was said that the alteration proposed by the Bill would, if carried into effect, give rise to clandestine marriages. Were those who urged that objection to the Bill aware what was the existing state of the marriage law in Ireland? Under the existing law, marriages could at present be celebrated during any hour of the day or night, and at any place whatever. If a man and woman should go before a Protestant clergyman in Ireland, at any hour of the day or night, and declare themselves to be man and wife, that was a valid marriage; but if the same declaration were made before a Roman Catholic clergyman the marriage was invalid. Now should this difference be allowed to continue? Did it not open a door for fraud and
 829
 Mr. Shaw  said, the marriage law in Ireland, generally, and the opposition made to that Bill, were both much misunderstood; he and his friends did not contend that the present condition of the law should continue; on the contrary, they were anxious for its improvement, and pressed on the law-officers of the Crown to introduce a general and impartial measure for that purpose; but the Bill then under consideration would render a bad law much worse, by removing the only practical check to that species of clandestine marriages the most likely to occur in Ireland, namely, those performed by Roman Catholic clergymen between Protestants and Roman Catholics; besides, it was a measure of very partial legislation, professedly, to relieve the Roman Catholics, and to leave all other classes as they were. The 12th George 1st had imposed the penalty of death both on the Roman Catholic priests and the degraded clergymen, for celebrating marriages between two Protestants, or a Protestant and Roman Catholic. The 19th George 2nd annulled the marriage, and the 33d George 3rd. inflicted a penalty of 500 l 830
 The Attorney-General  said, that he would briefly state the grounds upon which he gave his support to the Bill. He thought that Roman Catholic priests should be put upon the same footing as clergymen of other persuasions. His only objection to the measure was, that it did not go far enough; but because, from respect to the feelings, or, speaking more correctly, the prejudices of hon. Members opposite, the framer of the Bill had not carried its enactments far enough; but that was no reason why he should not support the measure as far as it did go. The marriage law in Ireland was nearly the same as that which existed in England previously to the passing of Lord Hardwicke's Act, when a contract  per verba de praesenti per verba de futuro 831 ipse facto
 Captain Berkeley , for the purpose of
 833
 Mr. Bernal  declared, that if that amendment were carried the Bill would be rendered worse than useless, and he should, therefore, use every exertion in his power to defeat the Bill altogether, if the hon. Member for Southampton were successful. The Committee divided on the original clause.—Ayes 28; Noes 15—Majority 13.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  said, that he had frequently stated to the House, that he thought it was absolutely necessary to pass a Bill to relieve the poor of Ireland without delay. As a measure, therefore, was not to be brought forward this session by his Majesty's Government, although it was a case of the greatest importance and of pressing emergency, he felt it to be his duty to press forward the Bill he had introduced. He was of opinion that the Government were anxious to postpone bringing forward a measure on the subject for as long a period as they could, and when they brought it forward, they would give as little as they could in the shape of relief. The measure before the House embodied the chief of the recommendations of the Commissioners on Poor-laws for Ireland. [ The hon. Member was interrupted with cries of "Move, move!"
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that though he permitted the Bills to be read a second time, he begged, on the part of Government, to enter his disclaimer against his being thereby held pledged to sanction either of these Bills. He would add, however, that he was not unwilling to hold himself pledged to some measure for the relief of the poor in Ireland, whenever Government could think itself justified in bringing forward a well-digested measure upon the subject.
 The Solicitor-General  stated, that although a Bill on the subject of the late election of municipal officers in the borough of Poole had been recommended by a Committee of the House, he felt it to be his duty to object to this Bill, as it involved principles which he could not help considering of a dangerous tendency. The proper tribunal to decide upon a case of this kind was a court of law, and the House was aware that to such a tribunal had the case been submitted. The trial was now-pending the judgment of the Court of King's Bench. He could not but express his objection to the Bill, because it involved a principle which he thought it would be very dangerous to admit—the interference of the Legislature in a question which was still awaiting the judgment of a proper tribunal, a court of law. Suppose the judgment of the Court of King's Bench should be, that these councillors had been duly elected, in what a position would Parliament have placed itself by agreeing to such a Bill as this? The legal right of the parties was in course of inquiry before the fitting tribunal; and he trusted the hon. Member would not seek to commit the House by any precipitate legislation upon this question.
 Mr. Poulter  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman did not appear to understand the principle of the Bill. If a decision upon the question were delayed till a court of law gave its judgment upon the point, the councillors in question would be out of office long before the decision was given. The whole town government of the borough of Poole had been built up on a gross and
 835
 The Solicitor-General  said, that though he should not oppose the second reading of the Bill, he reserved a full right to state his great objections to the Bill at a future stage, and before a fuller House.
 Sir R. Fergusson  objected, and stated that the greater part of Londonderry was held under the London company. One-third of the city stood on ground the yearly rent reserved for which did not exceed 10 l
 Mr. Lynch  admitted, that inconvenience might arise in some cases, but not sufficient to counterbalance the good effects which he anticipated from the clause; and which would arise from giving jurisdiction to the assistant-barrister in cases of dispute between the lower classes, as to leasehold interest in land.
 Mr. French  did not consider this clause sufficiently extensive. There were several cases unprovided for, such as "squatters," and persons holding possession, without ever having had a title. He would wish to know why the jurisdiction proposed to be given was limited to cases where the rent did not exceed 10 l l
 Mr. Lynch  stated, that this was an experiment, giving barristers the power of trying ejectments of this nature. He thought it right to limit it to a small sum at first, but if it worked well, he could see no objection to extend it as his hon. friend wished.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  objected to the Amendment, considering, that the business must be done by some one, and he thought it as well it should be done by the party, as by the repleviner.
 Mr. French  wished to call the attention of the hon. Gentlemen opposite to this clause, and to the three which immediately followed. It appeared to him there ought to be a decree against the obligors of the bond, at once, with stay of execution for a certain time, say ten days. Why, he would ask, after a full hearing, should the defendant, or person distraining, have to wait till the next Sessions, generally a period of three months, and then have to commence a fresh suit against the obligors of the bond; if they agreed to be answerable, why should they not be made so at once, without the trouble and expense of a new suit, in a case where, in fact, there was nothing new to litigate? The amount of debt and costs was decided by the first suit, the mere form of a decree against the obligors was all that was required, and this might and ought to be had in the first trial, with such stay of execution as might seem reasonable. The obligors should have leave to prove the goods distrained were not worth the rent and costs, and a decree should only go against them to the value so proved. He doubted very much the option of returning the goods ought to be given to them. Several months might intervene between the seizure and payment; in that time the value of the article distrained might be entirely changed. Goods of a perishable nature might be spoiled, and the value of five stock might, from neglect or otherwise, be reduced to half of what it was when the security was given.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  admitted, the necessity of a second suit against the obligors ought to be obviated, and if the hon. Member would leave it to him, he would, on the Report, bring up a clause to that effect. He did not, however, concur with his hon. Friend in the expediency of striking out the 15th Clause.
 Mr. Shaw  did not object to the principle of this clause, but he thought in practice that there would be considerable difficulty in ascertaining whether all just debts had been paid, and in putting the assets in a due course of administration. He was apprehensive that no machinery would be found sufficient for the purpose in the courts of the assistant-barristers.
 Mr. Lynch  admitted, the want of machinery in the assistant-barristers' courts was the difficulty in this case. He had before endeavoured to remedy that, by introducing a machinery which he afterwards abandoned; but he understood, that such accounts were in some cases taken by the assistant-barristers. A gentleman had been sent from Ireland on behalf of the assistant-barristers, and he understood from him that this difficulty was not insuperable.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  admitted, that in some instances assistant-barristers did take such accounts, and he conceived on the whole, it would be an improvement in the administration of justice in Ireland, to give assistant-barristers jurisdiction where the assets did not exceed 200 l
 Mr. O'Brien  hoped his hon. Friend would not listen to the suggestion, but proceed with the Bill.
 Mr. Lynch  said, he had had a conversation with the gentleman who had arrived on behalf of the assistant-barristers, and he did not understand him to object to this clause.—Clause agreed to.
 Mr. Shaw  approved of the hour stated in the clause as an excellent general rule for the practice of the assistant-barristers, but he considered it should rather be directory than mandatory, otherwise the validity of the decrees might be affected to the great prejudice of the suitors; and with respect to Civil Bills, he had learned from some assistant-barristers, that great inconvenience might accrue to the poorer suitors of the court, if there was a peremptory rule, that no business should be proceeded upon after six o'clock. The convenience of the public, and not of the assistant-barrister, should be the consideration.
 Mr. Lynch  said, that this clause had been much discussed before the Committee, and it was deemed advisable to retain it.
 Mr. Ingham  thought, that no peremptory rule should be fixed; the adoption of such a course would be attended with great public inconvenience.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  should not have the slightest objection to add a provision according to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, to prevent the validity of the decree being affected, so as the suitor should not suffer, but he thought some rule ought to be laid down, regulating the hours of sitting. He knew cases in districts where the Insurrection Act was in force, in which great inconvenience arose from late sittings. The Insurrection Act compelled all persons residing in the district to be within doors from sun-set to sun-rise, and the assistant-barristers were in the habit of sitting so late as nine or ten o'clock at night.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  coincided with his right hon. Friend, (Mr. Shaw) in thinking that the public convenience ought to be consulted in preference to that of an individual. He thought it would be a hardship upon poor suitors who might live at a great distance, where, perhaps, there were few cases undisposed of; if, suppose, on a Saturday evening, sitting an hour longer
 839
 Mr. Aglionby  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman, the Attorney-General, whether there would be any objection, on his part, to the taking out of the Bill for securing the clause enabling customary tenants to devise their property, and the introduction of a specific Bill upon that subject.
 Mr. Hume  would be very glad to know whereabouts the dormitory of the House of Lords lay. If he could obtain the information, Quixotic as the attempt might appear, he should feel a strong inclination to storm it. But why should the Bill be allowed to sleep in the other House? Why should not the right hon. Gentleman's legal friends in that House wake and take it up?
 The Attorney-General  expressed his regret at being unable to return a satisfactory answer to the hon. Member's question. A Bill containing the clause alluded to by the hon. Member had early in the present
 826
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the motion had rested solely upon the speech of the hon. Gentleman who brought it forward, he certainly, for one, should have felt it his duty to have divided the House before he gave his consent to it. He did not think it had ever happened to him to hear purer principles laid down, as governing
 867 s l 868 869
 Mr. Hundley  could not allow this discussion to close without entering his solemn protest against this Committee as unnecessary, uncalled for, and calculated to check that return to a state of prosperity which the agricultural interest was now making. In 1825 Joint-stock banks were admitted on all hands to be the  panacea
 Mr. Edward Buller  proposed several amendments in Clause 34.
 Lord John Russell  opposed the amendments, as tending to disturb the agreement entered into, which was this, that where the average amount of tithe received for the last seven years was from 60 l l l l l l
 Mr. Edward Buller  proposed a reduction of 10 l 883 l l l l l l l l l
 Lord John Russell  thought, now that he understood the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, that it was not founded on the same principle of justice as his own. He could not see the ground for acceding to a proposition which might practically have the effect of giving a tithe-owner in one case 80 per cent. and another tithe-owner in another 35 per cent. only, thus leaving a difference of 45 per cent. He thought that a proposition which established one equalised rate to apply to all cases was a more just one, and one which must have a more beneficial effect than a plan liable in operation to such inequalities.
 Mr. Benett  said, there was no question that the gross demand of the tithe-owner was for 100 per cent; the difference lay in the expenses of collection. That was the argument for commutation, because by commutation all that expense of collection, now lost to both parties, were saved.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that, although his objections to the system of commutation were as strong as ever, he would have an opportunity, on another occasion, of addressing himself to the general principle of the measure. The question now in dispute was the amount to be given to the tithe-owner under the proposed commutation. It had been said, that the principle proposed to be acted upon would have the effect of raising the value of some tithes, and of depressing that of others. Now, he could not see why a principle which should have the effect of depressing should be admitted at all. He thought, that where, on an average of the seven preceding years, the tithe-owner had received the whole of his right, that right ought to be
 884
 Mr. Blamire  said, he must object both to the proposition of the noble Lord, and that of the hon. Member for Staffordshire, inasmuch as he did not think either the one of the other would place all parties concerned in that position in which they ought to stand in reference to each other. He was perfectly satisfied that no rule could be laid down which would entirely meet all cases. He would with great submission beg to state to the House and to the noble Lord how he thought the difficulty might be remedied. He was aware, that the subject was a very difficult one to deal with, especially the compulsory part of the arrangement. The House ought to bear in mind, that if it were not possible to do what they wished and what was desirable, it was their duty to steer clear of doing a positive injustice to anybody. He begged to say, that he thought it would be an infinitely better plan in every case to ascertain the expense of the collection of tithe in that particular place, and fix the deduction according to that standard, and at no more. He had always considered, that tithes were but a contingent, and not a positive property; for the landowner had it always in his power to fence with the tithe-owner, and make an advantageous bargain with him, unless the tithe-owner's demands were according to his estimation of the matter, reasonable and moderate. Cases were constantly occurring where the tithes of the tithe-owner were evaded by the land-owner, and where he was fenced with by the landowner, and obliged to put up with a bargain very advantageous to the latter. In his part of the country the mode was this; for he could say for himself, as well as for those he had the honour of representing, that while they did not wish to give the clergyman one farthing less than he ought in justice to receive, they were not desirous of paying him more. In his particular part of the country, then, the state of the case was this: the lands were greatly subdivided, and there was a great variety of tenure and admixture of tithe able and tithe-free lands. The consequence was, that before a man agreed to take a farm, he endeavoured to ascertain from the tithe-owner what was the amount of his demand for the tithe able land proposed to be rented, and then tried to make the best bargain he could with him. If the bargain were altogether dissatisfactory to the farmer, the probabilities were, that he either did not take the farm at all, or if he did take it, that
 885 886 887
 Mr. Edward Buller  withdrew his Amendment.
 Mr. Charles Buller  remarked, that a great portion of the House seemed to object to the clause, and yet the opposition to it did not appear to be seriously maintained. The hon. Member was proceeding to move an Amendment, which he explained, when.
 Lord John Russell  suggested, that this was not the proper time for entering on the question involved in it.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to ask the noble Lord opposite, upon what grounds the limits of seventy-five and sixty per cent had been assumed. He quite understood the difficulties with which the noble Lord had had to contend; but the more he heard on the subject, the more was he convinced, that a system of compulsory commutation must be in individual cases attended with great injustice. The noble Lord had, in effect, admitted this, because, having adopted the compulsory principle, he now found it necessary to introduce a clause, in order to correct some part of the evils to which a compulsory system must inevitably lead. The noble Lord made a proposition which appeared to him scarcely reconcileable with justice upon the information he had received; though perhaps the noble Lord was in possession of facts which would enable him to prove the fitness and expediency of the limits the noble Lord had assigned. It was consistent with his knowledge, that there was frequently great inequality in the cost of collecting tithes, even in the same parish. The collection of the small tithes was often much more difficult than that of the large tithes, and although it might be right, that in the case of the small tithes an individual should receive only sixty per cent, in confederation of the difficulty with which they
 888
 Sir John Wrottesley , after having made inquiries in several parts of the country, and particularly in his own county, was bound to say, that the maximum and minimum proposed, though in some few cases they might impose hardship, were on the whole considering the difficulties and facilities of levying tithes in different places, suitable to the circumstances. Fixing limits in the way proposed would save time and trouble and prevent much litigation; he therefore, thought that this part of the Bill was highly desirable.
 Lord John Russell  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman asked him to explain on what principle he had appointed the limits to the deduction, he supposed the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to ask why he made it seventy-five rather than seventy-six or seventy-seven, and sixty, rather than sixty-one, but why he had taken those limits as a fair average between the lowest and highest amount of tithes collected. It appeared to him fair, as he had repeatedly stated, in making any general commutation of tithes, to look not to particular cases, but as nearly as possible to the general average of the country, so as to include the greatest number of cases. With respect to the Amendment which had been proposed by the hon. Member for Staffordshire he would admit that there might be cases where the tithe might be collected at 10 per cent., but such cases were very rare, and therefore, not to be taken into account in a question of legislation. There were also cases where the expenses amount to 50 per cent., but these being almost equally rare he had not allowed them to interfere with the adjustment of the measure. It might be asked, why not make some one and fixed sum the standard; and, indeed, a most intelligent and respectable gentleman. Mr. Jacob, when examined before the agricultural committee, selected seventy-five per cent., as the general average all over the country, but that exact limit would not give a sufficient representation of the real value of
 889 l l l l l minimum l maximum l
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, it was inconsistent in the hon. Member for East Somerset to tolerate this clause, after arguing against its principle. He was altogether opposed to the clause, because he looked upon it not as a modification of the 33rd clause, but, as wholly subversive of it. To take an average of the gross produce with certain deductions would be to perpetrate a gross injustice on the tithe-payer and the landowner. The noble Lord's fundamental error was, in not regarding the power of evasion as well as the right of tithe; for throughout the country the right of tithe had been modified, owing to the peculiar method of collection; and from that modification the power of evasion had been derived. The right of evasion was to be as much respected as the right of tithe itself, and was as old as the right of tithe. If it were found out that tithe could be collected with certain exceptions occurring in five or six years, he would not hesitate to do away with those exceptions, and to enforce the collection to the whole amount of the tithe; but when they considered the length of time that the rights of evasion had existed, indeed that, from time immemorial the right of tithe had been modified, and that that modification had been solemnly recognized by the Legislature and by the courts of law—it would be unjust to suspend it. It would be doing injustice to the tithe-owner to take from him more than was to be given up to him; but it would be equally unjust to make the tithe-payer pay more than he ought. The attention of the House had not been sufficiently directed to the expenses of collection, and the variety of the
 891 892 s d d s s d 893 d d s d s d s s d
 Viscount Ebrington  would support the amendment. The county he represented was divided into small farms, and contained a greater proportion of landlords than many other counties. He was quite sure that the effect of this clause, as proposed by his noble Friend, would seriously raise the value of tithe in that county. He had always been disposed to give to the tithe-owners their due, and was always ready to raise his voice against making those who had to pay, pay more than they ought; he should never subscribe to any plan of commutation that should give more to the tithe-owners than they at present enjoyed, or more than under the present mode of collection they could expect to receive. It might be argued, perhaps, by the hon. Member for the University for Oxford, that it would be hard on the tithe-owners to make them suffer for the leniency they had exercised; but their forbearance was not always voluntary. He must say, that he had known instances of experiments in collecting tithes in kind, in which so far from 50 per cent of the gross value being received by the tithe-owners, they had not realized so much as 20 per cent., and those cases were not confined to his own county. For proof of it he might refer to the evidence already quoted. Mr. James was asked—"You think, then, that the clergy have not got more than half their tithes?" His answer was—"No doubt, for the last seven years, they did not average one-half of their tithes." Under these circumstances, feeling in common, with his noble Friend, anxious to establish compulsory commuta-
 894
 Viscount Howick  would abstain from replying to the remarks which had been made by hon. Members against this Bill, not because they were unanswerable, but because he thought this was not a favourable opportunity to go into the subject. It appeared to him, as far as there was any real ground for opposition to this measure, the clause to be introduced by his noble Friend, and which he had caused to be printed, and had announced his intention of moving, would obviate it. All those inconveniences on which hon. Members, who had preceded him had dwelt, had been anticipated by his noble Friend, who rested his proposition upon the fact, that the expenses of collection, in a great number of instances, amounted to 50 per cent on the gross produce. His noble Friend behind him (Lord Ebrington) had said, that he was willing to give the clergyman that to which he was entitled, but without burthening the land with a permanent charge beyond that which the clergyman now received. That was a principle which the whole House was prepared to admit, and he was sure if his noble Friend looked into the clause as it was printed, he would see that wherever there was a case in which, owing to the particular nature of the tithe, the expenses of collection were heavier than the amount provided for originally, there was a power given to make such modification as the justice of the case required. Whenever the expenses of collection exceeded 40 l 895 896
 Mr. Childers  said, the noble Lord who had just sat down, had stated a principle of a different nature from any he had heard. The noble Lord said, that they were not to take what was now paid as the basis of a rent-charge, but that they were to take into consideration the sum lost, or which might be lost, on the part of the tithe-payer or tithe-owner, and to divide it between them. Now, that was a principle which he thought had been repudiated throughout the whole of this Bill. The noble Lord did not allude at all to another and a very important point, which was contained in the observations of the noble Lord, the Member for Devonshire, and which that noble Lord stated upon the testimony of Mr. James—namely, that not only when the tithe was taken as a dividend, but in composition, the clergyman had not received one-half what he was entitled to. That witness stated, that he had no doubt on his mind that the majority of compositions entered into during the last seven years did not average one-half the value of the tithe. He then went on to say, that on certain arable land the tithe is 13 s d s s l l l 897 l l
 Viscount Howick  wished to explain. The hon. Member had supposed him to say, that what was now paid ought not to be taken as the basis of the future rent-charge; but, on the contrary, that we should divide between the parties what was lost or gained by the composition. That was not his statement. What he distinctly stated was this, that in all cases in which it was possible to be done, they should take the existing arrangement between the parties as the future rent-charge; but that in those particular cases in which the parties had not been able to come to an arrangement by themselves,—in those cases of dispute referred to by the hon. Members, in which the clergymen had claimed more than the tithe-payer had chosen to pay; and in those cases where the clergyman had been driven, under the circumstances, to raise the tithe in kind—in all these cases, he said, we were not to take for our basis either the small receipt of the clergyman, on the one hand, or the severe loss, perhaps of one hundred per cent., to the landlord on the other. But that in those cases only they should consider what ought to be divided between the two parties, thereby affording a gain to both, by producing an arrangement between them.
 Colonel Thompson  could not assent to the principle which, with the exception of a few words from the Secretary-at-War, if he had rightly understood them, had been assumed through the whole of this debate—that the tithe-owner was to have nothing but the barest amount of his net receipts, and that all the advantages of the proposed legislative improvement were to go to the land-owners. Suppose the tithe-owners were to set up the plea, that the landowners ought to have nothing but their present receipts—that they ought to have none of the profit arising from removing the pressure of the present law on the cultivation of land—and that all the advantages of the commutation of tithes were to go to the tithe-owners. Would there be the smallest chance of such an arrangement being agreed to; and was not the proposed arrangement equally unjust? The truth was, that a great saving to both parties ought to arise out of the commutation of tithes; to the land-owners, that of being able to improve their culti-
 898
 Mr. Hume  had no hesitation in voting for the word fifty instead of sixty. It seemed again to have been forgotten in the discussion, that tithe-property was only contingent property, and some deduction might reasonably be made in amount for rendering it secure and certain.
 Mr. Bennett  said, that the amendment would give the Commissioners greater powers than would be given them by the clause of the noble Lords. In some cases they would be enabled to raise the composition from 61 l l
 Mr. Parrott  was also opposed to giving the Commissioners so much discretionary power.
 Mr. Blamire  would give the Commissioners all the discretionary power proposed. To place limits was, in fact, only erecting a screen, behind which they might concert injustice or partiality. It would be better to place no limits on their discretion, but make them responsible for its exercise.
 Mr. Forbes  opposed the amendment. He did not approve of the original motion, but he considered the amendment far more objectionable.
 Mr. Hawes  hoped the suggestion of the hon. Member for Middlesex would be adopted. If there was any evil at all arising from an increase and fluctuation of the circulating medium, it was to the clause in the Bank charter alone that it was to be attributed. With reference to the state of the country he would mention one fact. He believed that there never was a time when the amount of bad debts in trade was so small; or when there was so little artificial paper in circulation as now.
 Mr. Forster  bore his testimony to the extensive information; accurate statement, and spirit of candour which pervaded the speech of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. He thought, the Chancellor of the Exchequer having acceded to the appointment of this Committee, that it could not fail to do good. The best corrective of the evils, whether belonging to private or public banking, Was a strict adherence to the laws now regulating our currency, namely, the maintenance of the standard, and the principle of convertibility with regard, to all issues, and the prohibition of
 876 l 877
 Colonel Sibthorp  observed, that with regard to the alleged unwillingness to deliver in names, he knew nothing of it;—he was not afraid to announce his name, and he thought that his name would have quite as good an effect in any division as that of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, his hon. Friend misapprehended the object of this Committee if he supposed it was to inquire into the fluctuating amount of the circulating medium in the country. The object of the Committee was, as it had been stated by his right hon. Friend, to inquire into the principles on which Joint-stock banks were conducted, with a view to ascertain whether it were advisable to introduce any amendment in the Act upon which those banks were established, or to interfere in any way, so far as the legislature was concerned, as well for the purpose
 878
 Mr. Cayley  agreed in opinion with those who thought the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had failed in showing any cause for this Committee. But looking at the subject in the point of view in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had put it, he was not opposed to the motion. If the subject would bear the light, then the present state of things ought to stand; if it would not bear the light then it ought not to stand. But he protested against the notion that Joint-stock banks were at the bottom of our present position. In his opinion this Committee was brought forward with a view of tampering with the currency. He was frequently accused of a wish to tamper with the currency; no one, however, was more averse to tampering with the currency than he was; because that undermined all the engagements of society. What he desired was, to have such a well-regulated standard as would not require the frequent tampering with the currency,
 874 875
 Mr. Warburton  said, that a question had been raised as to whether or not the establishment of Joint-stock Banks had raised the prices, and it had also been insinuated that the change of the currency had had an effect on the prices. On that account he considered the amendment should be adopted. It was not to be an inquiry whether or not Joint-stock Banks had sufficient means to meet their responsibilities, it was to inquire into the increase of the currency; and that could not be done without inquiry into the effect from the increase of the currency from other causes. With regard to the inquiry being secret, as they could not be considered private accounts that were to be gone into, but the effects of a system on the money of the country, he thought that a Select Committee would be sufficient.
 Mr. Pattison  assured the House, that the conversation which had just passed between him and the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 872
 Mr. Richards  agreed with the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets that this was a subject of the greatest magnitude, and he should have been much better pleased if the Government had come down to the House with some well-digested plan, in order to cure any evils that might be incident to Joint-stock Banks, instead of sanctioning this motion for a Committee, and he could not help suspecting that there was some understanding between the right hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, as to the latter bringing forward this proposition, He regarded it substantially as a motion on the part of the Government. But he could not refrain from observing that Joint-stock Banks, in 1826, were instituted almost upon the sole recommendation of the Government of that day. In reference to the motion before the House, the hon. Gentleman had stated many grounds for granting his motion, but he had not given the House one single proof of any evil that had arisen from Joint-stock Banks. There had not been a single failure for the ten years during which they had existed. That fact of itself ought to make the House approach the subject with considerable caution. The hon. Gentleman seemed to have some dreadful apprehension haunting his mind, as to the possibility of evil. He had said, that such a state of things might arise as to make the operations of these banks dangerous. He was quite aware that a bad harvest might cause the exchanges to turn against this country, create a general alarm on the public mind, and occasion an effect upon the currency which might lead to great individual and general distress. But was that an objection to Joint-stock Banks? Unquestionably not. True it was, that there was danger attending these banks; but there was also danger arising from the use of the steam-engine; but surely that was no argument why steam-engines should not be used. He much approved of the language of caution used by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Nothing could be more guarded, more prudent, or more statesmanlike. Still he thought the Government ought to have proposed
 871
 Mr. Hume  said, the speech of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, showed how difficult it was for any Minister to steer his course satisfactorily. It appeared to him his Majesty's Government had acted rightly in taking upon themselves the appointment of the Committee rather than leave it to an individual who might possibly have selected persons entertaining erroneous opinions on the subject of the currency, which might have led to most disasterous results. The Chancellor of the Exchequer would now be responsible as to the individuals composing the Committee. He did not think the hon. Member for Knaresborough had spoken in the manner he ought to have done, when he said, that this was an understanding between the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets; as if the Chancellor of the Exchequer required the aid of any individual to bring forward such a motion. He, at the same time, wished to hold himself free from the opinions expressed by his hon. Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets. He did not believe that the Joint-stock banks had produced any surplus of paper money what-ever. He was prepared to show that the increased production of this country in manufactures alone, was upwards of 10,000,000 l., l.; 873
 Mr. Hume  said, that he must deny the correctness of the first allegation; the divisions did not occupy more time now than they did formerly. As to the second charge, his name had been once or twice omitted; but these were exceptions—they proved nothing against the rule. He did not mean to say, that the system was perfect—he wished it was. It was as complete as they could make it; and if the hon. Baronet could devise a more complete system, it would become him to name it.
 Mr. Hume  then moved, "That it be an Instruction to the Committee that they do inquire into the operation of the privileges conferred on Country and Joint-stock Banks to pay their Promissory Notes in Bank of England Notes, instead of paying them in gold."
 Mr. Pease  thought the Committee recommended itself. It ought to be the wish of the Joint-stock banks themselves to institute this inquiry; for a prejudice had sprung up respecting them which was perfectly unfounded. A court of inquiry, constituted of impartial Members of that House, would do good by giving encouragement and a proper development of the sound principle on which Joint-stock banks were established, and of retarding everything that could throw a doubt on the responsibility and respectability of those banks.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  objected to the appointment of the Committee, on the
 879 l l l l 880 881
 Mr. Gisborne  did not intend to enter into any discussion of the general question. He did not intend to object to the appointment of the Committee, although he confessed he could not look at the proposition of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets without some feeling of suspicion. This feeling, however, had been greatly alleviated by the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The main object he had in rising was to say, that having himself given notice of a motion having reference to this subject, as the Committee for which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets moved was not to be appointed that day,
 870
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, by adopting the proposition of his hon. Friend, they would be embarrassing the proposed inquiry with a subject which did not naturally belong to it. He was willing to inquire into the operation of Joint-stock banks. That was an important subject, and was quite enough to occupy the Select Committee. He could assure the hon. Member for Knaresborough, that he had not the slightest notion that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets intended to make this motion until he saw it on the order book.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not rise for the purpose of following his hon. Friend through the whole of the argument into which he had entered on the present occasion, because, as he intended to express his concurrence in the appointment of the Committee, he should simply slate the grounds on which that concurrence was founded, in order to prevent any possible misconstruction of the views taken either by the Government collectively, or
 * 860 861 862 863 864 865 866
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that he had occasionally been engaged as teller, and had found great difficulty in the performance of that duty, from the unwillingness of many Members to mention their names when the divisions were taking. He had asked many for their names, but could not get them. While that unwillingness continued, some inaccuracies were almost unavoidable, at least till some Members were better known, or till the system were rendered more perfect. The present plan was not perfect, and, perhaps, not the best that
 840
 Sir C. Burrell  complained of the time lost by the present mode of taking the Divisions, and of the inaccuracies resulting from it. In two instances (respecting Carlow, &c.) his name had been omitted in official lists.
 Mr. Clay : In rising to bring forward the subject of which he had given notice, said, Sir, I have to bespeak the indulgence of the House. The subject which I am about to bring under its notice is one, in itself, but little attractive, and deriving no adventitious interest from any aptitude to excite the feelings of party; but it is a subject, nevertheless, of the very greatest importance, and one, I can venture to assure the House, urgently requiring an early and careful, not to say anxious consideration. The motion I am about to submit to the House is as follows:—"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Act of the 7th George 4th, c. 46, permitting the establishment of Joint-stock Banks, and whether it be expedient to make any, and what alteration in the provisions of that Act." Under that Act a system of Joint-stock banking has grown up already of great magnitude, which is daily extending its ramifications, and which promises very shortly to comprehend every portion of the kingdom, and every class of the population within the sphere of its operation. Of the vast importance of the consequences, whether good or evil, which must eventually flow from the workings of this system no man can reasonably doubt; banking forms, as we know but too well from our own experience, an important, perhaps the most important, part of the monetary system of any country, and the question of the soundness therefore of the principles on which it is conducted touches not only the welfare of the commercial and manufacturing classes, but deeply affects every relation of social life, and is consequently beyond most others deserving of the
 841 l 842 843 844 845 846 847 l s s 848 849
 Mr. Clay , in reply, begged it to be distinctly understood, that so far from being hostile to Joint-stock Banks, he was a decided friend to them, thinking them capable of conferring the greatest benefits on the country. He could not agree to the proposition of the hon. Member for Middlesex.
 Sir George Sinclair  considered the amendments which had been made in this Bill by the House of Lords of the very highest importance. This was one of the many occasions when it became the House well to consider, and the country duly to estimate, the many advantages they derived from the independent legislative character and constitutional working of the House of Lords. They all knew in what state this measure had been sent up to the other House, and the enormous additional expenses it proposed to entail on the country for the maintenance of the constabulary of Ireland; but, under the searching investigation to which the Bill had been subjected, those expenses had greatly been diminished without at all impairing the efficiency of that force. Those amendments had at once been acceded to by Ministers, and he hoped no objection would now be offered to the printing of the schedules in their original shape, showing the different offices proposed to be created, with the salaries as
 905
 Viscount Morpeth  did not see how the House could attend to the recommendation of the hon. Baronet. He had moved that the amendments be printed, in order that the House might he more competent than at present to form an opinion as to their precise bearing and character. He did not despair of showing on a future occasion that the alterations which had been made in the Bill did not afford such grounds for commendation as the hon. Baronet had bestowed on them.
 Mr. Finch  rose to move, as an amendment to clause 34, p. 13, line 9, the words 75 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Estcourt  concurred in the observations of the hon. Member who had last spoken. He believed the noble Lord would shortly find, that, instead of attempting a maximum and minimum, he should have adopted the suggestion of the hon. Member for Cumberland, and have had recourse to a valuation.
 Mr. Parrott  conceived, that such a proposition would produce confusion throughout the entire country, and create enormous expense. He had hoped, that the minimum would have been fifty instead of sixty per cent. In his opinion, tithes were not worth more than they would produce in money, after deducting the expense of collection. He would reserve to himself the power of objecting to the entire clause hereafter.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not see why a special provision should be made for those cases in which the collection exceeded the maximum, while no special provision was made for those cases where the collection was less than the minimum. There was no reciprocity in this instance.
 Mr. Estcourt  said there were many cases where the collection did not amount to 10 per cent. There was no provision for such a case.
 Mr. Charles Buller  would support the amendment, for he did not think that the minimum and maximum would do justice either to. the tithe-owner or the tithe-payer.
 Sir Robert Peel  understood, that the 33rd and 34th clauses involved the main principles of the Bill—that the compulsory principle should be enforced, and that the maximum and minimum should be fixed. He would suggest, that the discussion upon these points should be postponed, and he hoped the noble Lord would not conceive that in making any suggestion of this sort there was any concession on the part of himself or those who acted with him. It appeared to him that no answer had been given to the objections urged as to the maximum and minimum of the last seven years. According to the plan now proposed the amount of commutation would depend in many cases on the past lenity and forbearance of the clergyman, and it would be unfair that his forbearance should tend to his disadvantage. He thought in the arrangement the voluntary principle should be included. There were two objections to the clause, and the mode of fixing the maximum and minimum it proposed. The first was, that parishes might be taxed so as to have a practical operation of inequality. He would suppose a case in point of two contiguous parishes; one with a lenient pastor who took only 57 per cent., the other with a pastor who exacted the full 75 per cent. Now by the mode proposed in the clause the parish paying the lesser sum would be equalised with that paying the greater, and thus an injustice would be done it. The income of one would be
 908
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he considered the basis on which the clause was founded! a fair one, as it was calculated to produce so little disturbance. To the principle of that basis he felt himself bound to adhere.
 Mr. Blamire  said, he was anxious, before the discussion upon the clause terminated, to address a few words to the House upon it. He thought the plan of the noble Lord for establishing a maximum and a minimum was, at any rate, a most questionable policy. Considerable expense was incurred in settling these matters, and there were very few cases in which you could fix the exact sum that ought to be paid. If it was to be fixed by the Assistant-Commissioner, he would have a most dangerous power in- trusted to him, since he was not obliged to give publicity to his calculations, and that discretionary power ought to be checked by a local Board. He conceived, that the voluntary part of this Bill would be gladly acceded to by the country; and with respect to the compulsory part of it, time ought to be given to deal with the more difficult cases. He recommended the House to puss no law which would press hardly on individuals, but to wait and see the results of this measure, and then they could come back to Parliament and amend this Bill, if necessary. The Commissioners would have acquired a more intimate knowledge of the intricate cases that would arise, and the House would be better prepared to legislate on the subject. At any rate, he should be glad to see the plan of the noble Lord with respect to a minimum and maximum abandoned.
 Mr. Finch's  amendment was withdrawn.
 Mr. Parrott  proposed a proviso to the Clause, enacting that in fixing the permanent tithe-composition a reduction of 10 l.
 Mr. Gally Knight  stated, that if Clause 34 was agreed to, it would defeat the object of the clauses already adopted. If this part of the measure was adopted it would not give that satisfaction to the country which should be the result of a Bill on this subject. He would support the amendment.
 Mr. Cayley  had no hesitation in telling the noble Lord, that if he did not modify this clause he would destroy the principle of the Bill, which, no doubt, he was most anxious to carry. If he persisted on this part of the Bill, he (Mr. Cayley) would tell the noble Lord that he would lose the support of those who were most anxious that the principle of commutation should be carried into effect. Hon. Gentlemen opposite were anxious to keep up those parts of the Bill which appeared most favourable to the Church; but would this satisfy those prepared to carry out a satisfactory measure? He thought this was a point on which hon. Members should make a stand.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that as the question had been so often discussed under one form or another, he should only offer one observation as to the ground on which he-continued to prefer Clause 34, as it stood in the Bill, to any of the amendments which had been proposed. He entirely agreed with his hon. Friend, the Member for Northallerton (Mr. Wrightson), that the same principle was to be found in the 33rd Clause. He thought that they ought to seek to do justice to the tithe-owners, on the principle on which their rights were founded, and not on any imaginary suggestions which might be thrown out. He objected to the proposition of his hon. Friend, because it did not attempt to provide for those cases in which the standard
 911
 Mr. William Miles  opposed the clause. He would suggest, that in all cases where the amount of tithe under the commutation was below the minimum, it should be left to the decision of the Commissioners, with the right of appeal to a superior tribunal, and that the costs should be borne by the losing party.
 Lord John Russell  said, that Government might bring in a Bill on this subject this Session, but at the same time he would not hold out any great hopes that he would be a be to carry the second reading in the present Session.
 Lord John Russell  said, that a Bill was in preparation on the subject, but he could not say that he should bring it under the consideration of the House this Session. If there was time he would do so, but it would altogether depend upon the state of the public business, and he could not hold out any hopes to the hon. Gentleman.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  would bring in a measure himself, if the Government would support him—not in all the details, but on the principle of it.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department. Some time ago he had inquired whether it was the intention of the Government to bring in a measure to establish summary tribunals to try offences of a petty description. The noble Lord had said, that the subject was then under the consideration of Government. Since that time a Report on the state of Newgate had appeared, which recommended the very thing which he (Sir E. Wilmot) endeavoured to suggest, viz., that prisoners should be tried at petty sessions by a jury of five or seven. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce a measure on the subject?
 Sir Oswald Mosley  wished to know whether his Majesty's Government had it under consideration to
 906
 The Attorney General  said, that all persons in Edinburgh concurred as to the utility and necessity of making a good low-water pier there. He was in hope that the old harbour of Leith could be sufficiently improved to answer all the purposes of such a pier, and he had therefore proposed last Session, when this Bill was before the House, that the harbour of Leith should be improved for that purpose, He, at the same time, intimated, that if there should be no prospect this Session of the harbour of Leith being so improved he would offer no opposition to this Bill. When the Bill was brought in this Session, there being no such prospect then in existence, he had offered no opposition to it, but the prospect was now altered, and he believed, that before the end of the present Session a Bill would be passed for making the necessary improvements in the old harbour of Leith. He should, under these circumstances, propose that the further consideration of this Report should be postponed. He was the more inclined to do so, as he saw by the paper that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a motion for that evening
 916
 Sir Andrew L. Hay  did not expect any opposition to his motion, after this Bill had been before the House during two Sessions, and had passed through two committees. He called upon the House to do justice to themselves and the parties engaged in promoting this Bill, by allowing it to proceed through its different stages without further opposition. It might be of advantage to the constituents of his right hon. Friend the Attorney-General to have delay given to the measure, but it could not be to the general interests of the country.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that when this Bill was before the House last Session, he had proposed the postponement of it on the ground that the subject was under the consideration of Government and that time should be given to the Government to come to some arrangement. That time had been given; those efforts had been made on the part of the Government with a view to an arrangement with the city of Edinburgh, and up to that moment they had been unsuccessful, but he felt, that it would be a complete breach of faith on the part of the Government with the parties interested in this Bill, if it now endeavoured to prevent the passing of it this Session. After the means which had been tried for effecting an arrangement of this matter had been unsuccessful, he trusted that better success would attend the labours of the Committee for the appointment of which his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would move to-night. But he did not think, that it would be fair on the part of the Government to oppose this Bill now on such grounds. His right hon. Friend the Member for the city of Edinburgh, had a perfect right to act in this matter as his constituents desired, but the House should clearly understand, that on the part of the Government there was no opposition made to this Bill, The parties concerned in the Bill knew how the case stood; they knew that they took this measure at their own risk, and they were the best judges how far their interests would be served by the passing of the Bill.
 Sir Edward Codrington  had attended the Committee on this Bill, being in no way personally interested in the matter, and was persuaded from the evidence taken before the Committee, that it was impracticable to make the required harbour at Leith, and that Trinity was the fittest of all positions for it. He certainly thought, that there should be no further interference on the part of the Government with this business, and that the matter should be allowed to take its course. A very heavy expense had been incurred by the promoters of the Bill, and it would be unfair to throw any more upon them. If they were satisfied with the speculation, they should be allowed to take it at their peril. He would repeat, that Trinity was the fittest position for a harbour.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that he must vote for the proposition of the Attorney-General. With a view to the saving of time and unnecessary expense, an adjournment of the Committee bad been moved and carried
 918
 The Attorney-General  observed, that it was impossible for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to have moved for the Committee sooner.
 Mr. Baring  complained that the hon. Baronet had made a speech in answer to what he anticipated would be stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. There had been full notice to the parties concerned that the Government would take this course. He thought, that after the recommendation of the Committee last Session, and after the expectation then held out, it would be most unfair on the part of the Government to propose the further delay of this Bill.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  seconded the motion. He could not account for the decision of the majority, unless it was from the alarm even a precedent on so small a scale might create at the present moment, of an appropriation of a surplus for the object of education.
 Captain Gordon  contended that the motion recommended a most extraordinary and unprecedented mode of proceeding, and that if there were any just and sufficient reason to complain of the decision of the Committee, the proper remedy was by appeal. True it was, that the Committee had decided upon the principle of the measure, because they had determined against the preamble in which the principle was involved. The estates had been left by Sir A. Hay to be applied by the trustees to a particular purpose, and to no other, as they would answer for it at the day of judgment; and yet the promoters of the present Bill wished to divert the funds to a totally different object—the erection of schools—not for the benefit of all the citizens of Aberdeen, but for the advantage of such as could afford to pay an additional sum for the education of their children.
 Sir George Clerk  opposed the motion. A similar application made on Friday last, had been withdrawn on the ground that it was unprecedented. He did not think it any valid objection to the conduct of the Committee in this case that it had acted upon principle; it had done so, and had decided that money left for one purpose ought not to be applied to another The House had only determined when it passed the second reading, that the promoters of the measure had made out a  prima facie prima facie
 Sir Andrew Leith  Hay stated, that the -only evidence heard, that of the Lord Provost of Aberdeen, was as clear as possible in favour of the Bill, yet the Committee threw out the preamble. He hoped the House would consent to the motion.
 Mr. Roebuck's  motion was withdrawn.
 Captain Wemyss  had been a Member of the Committee. The preamble had been thrown out by the votes of three or four English Members, who entered the room after the discussion upon the subject had been concluded.
 Lord J. Russell  having moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House on the Factories Act Amendment Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had certainly taken a somewhat unusual course; and he could not but think, that if the right hon. Baronet had been in the House during the whole of the speech of the hon. Baronet, the Under-Secretary for the Colonies, he would have seen that there was sufficient cause to come to the determination which his hon. Friend had recommended, and would have seen no necessity for entering, as it were, a sort of protest against the course which the House was about to adopt. For all the sentiments expressed by his hon. Friend, the Under-Secretary for the Colonies, both he and the rest of his colleagues were perfectly ready to be responsible. With respect to the opinions of the hon. Member for Bath, to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, Ministers had nothing to do; and they were in no way responsible for his expectations, unless they had given him reason to suppose they were about to bring forward a question which they did not mean to consider, or had held out hopes which it was not their intention to realise. The right hon. Baronet could have found nothing in his hon. Friend's speech which could justify such expectations. His hon. Friend had merely stated, that after having sent out Commissioners to inquire into the grievances of Canada, it would be but just and fitting to consult their opinion. It would not be right before the Commissioners had stated their opinion, either for the Government or for the House of Commons to come to any absolute and final decision upon the subject. As the right hon. Baronet had availed himself of extracts from the instruct-
 950 "But his Majesty cannot forget that it is the admitted right of all his subjects to prefer to him, as King; of these realms, their petitions for the redress of any real or supposed grievances. His Majesty especially recognises this right in those who are themselves called to the high office of representing a large and most important class of his people. The acknowledgment of that right appears to the King to imply on his own part, the corresponding duty of investigating the foundations of every such complaint. His Majesty, therefore, will not absolutely close the avenue to inquiry, even on a question respecting which he is bound to declare, that he can for the present perceive no reasonable ground of doubt. His Majesty will not refuse to those who advocate such extensive alterations, an opportunity of proving the existence of the grievances to which so much prominency has been given." "The King is rather induced to adopt this course, because his Majesty is not prepared to deny that a Statute which has been in effective operation for something less than forty-three years may be capable of improvement, or that the plan upon which the Legislative Council is constituted, may possibly, in some particulars, be usefully modified; or that, in the course of those years, some practical errors may have been committed by the Council, against the repetition of which adequate security ought to be taken. Yet, if these suppositions should be completely verified, it would yet remain to be shown, by the most conclusive and circumstantial proof, that it is necessary to advance to a change so vital as that which is demanded by the House of Assembly." 951 "You will, therefore, apply yourselves to the investigation of this part of the general subject, endeavouring to ascertain how far the Legislative Council has really answered the original objects of its institution; and considering of what amendments it may be susceptible. It is his Majesty's most earnest hope and trust, that in the practical working of the constitution of the province, there will be found to exist no defects which may not be removed by a judicious exercise of those powers which belong to the Crown, or which Parliament has committed to the provincial Legislature." 952 Hear, hear! 953
 Mr. Bannerman  rose in pursuance of notice to move to refer back the Aberdeen Schools Bill to the Select Committee which had already reported upon it. The hon. Member called the attention of the House to the vicious system of legislation and to the party spirit prevailing in Select Committees. He hoped to be allowed to state a few circumstances connected with the measure which he thought would place the subject in a clearer point of view, and show that he was justified in the course he recommended. A discussion had occurred on the second reading of the Bill, and if it had been thrown out by a decision against the principle, much trouble and expense would have been saved; but upon a division it was carried by a majority of 46. The House had thus decided in favour of the principle of the measure—a most important principle to Scotland—and the clauses were sent to a Select Committee for its determination upon them. None of the facts were disputed in the Committee, but the hon. Member for Harwich, with that honesty and candour which distinguished his votes and proceedings, admitted that the Bill was to be opposed because it contained appropriation on a small scale. Nobody had disputed the testimony of the Lord Provost of Aberdeen, who was the only witness, no further evidence being considered necessary; but it was said, that the Bill contained an appropriation clause, and that for that reason it could not be passed into law. By a majority of twelve to eight the Committee decided, that the preamble had not been proved; and if he (Mr. Bannerman) were able to establish that that decision was wrong, he apprehended it would be enough to warrant his motion. He expressed his strong sense of the impropriety of the conduct of those
 921
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the hon.
 945
 Mr. Robinson  could not but express his surprise at the proposition of the hon. Member for Bath. The hon. Gentleman, in the course of his speech, had talked of his predictions with respect to the present state of Canada; but some of his predictions on a former occasion did not turn out to have been made in the true spirit of prophecy. The hon. Member had predicted that the people of Canada would be opposed to the timber duties, but the proposition to change those duties had been negatived by the House of Assembly of Lower Canada. The hon. Member had spoken, in what he considered his official character, as the representative of the opinions of the people of Lower Canada. He denied, that the hon. and learned Member for Bath could be considered as the representative of the people of Lower Canada. He was merely the representative of the Papineau party. He (Mr. Robinson), as an individual in some degree connected with the Canadas, and deeply interested in their welfare and prosperity, had no hesitation in expressing his firm conviction, that from the moment the people of Lower Canada gained an elective legislative body might he dated the loss of the colony. He was convinced that from that moment the English settlers would consider themselves abandoned by the mother country. The question was discussed in the year 1791, when a constitution was given to Lower Canada, and though Mr. Fox expressed his individual opinion in favour of it, it should not be forgotten that he stated, in the most emphatic terms, that he considered it essentially necessary that in every part of the British dominions an aristocratic principle, analogous to the establishment of a House of Peers in this country, should form a part of the constitution. This opinion was also ably and emphatically stated by Mr. Burke. At the same time, there could be no doubt that if the Elective Council did not sufficiently harmonize with the popular assembly, it
 941 942
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that his hon. and learned Friend appeared as the representative or agent of the House of Assembly of Canada; and other hon. Members had also appeared in that House in the same capacity. If the hon. Baronet intended to make an attack on this point on his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Bath, he should bring forward a motion on the subject, when the hon. and learned Member for Bath would be enabled to reply to him. If the hon. Baronet would deliberately bring forward his motion, he would find that a great many Members of Parliament had acted as agents for colonies, and had received payment, and their conduct had never been questioned on the subject.
 The Speaker  said, that the expediency of the proposition was a question on which, of course, he should not give any opinion, but he knew no reason why in point of form the motion of the hon. Member for Aberdeen might not be made.
 Mr. John Maxwell , chairman, brought up the report of the Dublin Election Committee, which he read to the House as follows: —
 "That Daniel O'Connell, esq., was not duly elected a citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Dublin. "That Edward Southwell Ruthven, esq., was not duly elected a citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Dublin. "That George Alexander Hamilton, esq., is duly elected, and ought to have been returned a citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Dublin. "That John Beattie West, esq., is duly elected, and ought to have been returned to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Dublin. "That the petition of Robert King, John Mallet, and others, in the opinion of this Committee, is not frivolous or vexatious, and that the opposition to the said petition does not appear to the Committee to be frivolous or vexatious. "That these resolutions be forthwith re-ported to the House." 915 "The Committee feel it to be their duty especially to report to the House that eight persons, viz.—Matthew Madden, George Os-borne, Patrick Finnucane, O. Richards, John Forsyth, Charles Dempsey, James Baldwin, and Andrew Hutchinson, were struck off the poll, as having voted from corrupt expectation, and having subsequently received money. But the Committee is unanimously of opinion that there is no evidence that Messrs. West and Hamilton, for whom they voted, were either directly or indirectly implicated in such corrupt practices. "The Committee further consider it their duty to make known to the House that they have found a very general irregularity to prevail in the assessment and collection of municipal taxes in the city of Dublin, and that from the absence of all public notice of their imposition, the uncertainty attending their collection, and the liability of payment attached in many instances to various occupiers of the same premises, the exercise of their franchise is frequently subject to difficulties, which the Committee cannot believe was contemplated by the Legislature."
 Mr. Poulter  said, that the Committee had gone beyond its duty in deciding against the principle of the Bill which had been affirmed by the House on the second reading. As to the last observation of the hon. and gallant Member, the Lord Provost of Aberdeen had distinctly stated, that all classes in that city would be benefitted by the construction of the schools. The interests of education were of the highest importance, and the testator, Sir Alexander Hay,
 922 l.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move, as an amendment, that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to take into consideration such parts of 31st George 3rd, c. 31, as related to the executive and legislative councils of the Canadas, for the purpose of rendering the same efficient to the good government of those provinces. By the present motion, the hon. Member said, he sought not to excite party feeling; he desired not to impugn the character or conduct of any class of men, but he did intend to impugn the whole system of colonial government. He should be able to show from evidence which it was his intention to submit to the House, that the Colonial Department of that country, as at present constituted, was totally incapable of governing to the satisfaction of those colonists over whom they held sway, and that with regard to Canada, at least, the scheme of administration was with a view to private and partial interests. Before he went further, he begged to state fairly and completely the object he had in view. He sought to obtain for the Canadas what he called a good government. By a good government he meant a government consonant to the feelings of the colonists, and which really and  banâ fide 926 clique l. 927 928 929 930
 Mr. Roebuck  begged to explain. In bringing forward the present motion, he had distinctly stated, that he was only carrying into effect the wishes of the people of Lower Canada. He did not bring it forward as his own proposition.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that it was true that a Commission had been sent out to Canada by the Government, but it had failed in the object for which it was sent. As, therefore, he saw an end of the Commission, he thought that he was only acting with fairness, in at once demanding of the Government and the House to adopt steps to afford a redress of grievances. He saw no reason why it was necessary to wait longer for the Government to bring forward measures for that purpose. As, however, promises had been made by the hon. Baronet on behalf of the Government, he felt that he must yield, and withdraw his motion. But he could not help telling the Government, that if they persisted in going on in the course that had hitherto been pursued, they would involve themselves in irreparable difficulties. Before he sat down, he felt bound to allude to something that had fallen from the hon. Member for Worcester. He hoped that the hon. Member was prepared to show on what authority he had given utterance to the language he had used. The hon. Member for Worcester had declared that the Canadian party had declared themselves hostile to the emigration of English settlers to Lower Canada, and this because it would strengthen the British connexion. He should like to know where the hon. Member got his information, for it was distinctly false. He hoped the hon. Member could give some definite information on the subject. He had been taunted, in consequence of the office he held in connection with Canada. He accepted that office because he thought that by means of it he could be serviceable as well to his own country as to the colony. He had not asked for this situation, but it had been voluntarily offered to him, and he appeared there in a character which few Members could boast, namely, as the representative of 400,000 persons. With respect to the motion, he would only add, that he had brought forward the subject, because he felt that the consideration of it could not safely be postponed, which, indeed, was admitted on all sides.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that he was fully prepared at once to answer the hon. Member. He could refer to the case of Mr. Huskisson, who accepted the office of agent for Ceylon, with a salary. The sub-
 946
 Mr. Hume  thought, if the differences with Canada were not brought to a successful termination it would be owing to speeches like that of the hon. Member for Worcester. He must, however, express his great satisfaction with the course pursued by the hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) who had preceded the hon. Member for Worcester. He had merely asked the House not to arrive at a decision upon the subject until the report of the Commission had been made, and he had laid considerable stress on his readiness to give the Canadians as great a share of self-government as could safely be intrusted to them. The hon. Member for Worcester had talked of Papineau and his party. What did the hon. Member suppose their influence to be? The influence of Papineau and his party in Canada, was the influence of Mr. O'Connell, and his party in Ireland. Three fourths of the eighty-eight representatives in the House of Assembly were returned by the French people; and they had, in opposition to the wishes of the Governor, elected him to the office of Speaker again and again, to testify the confidence they reposed in him. Did the hon. Member for Worcester suppose, that speaking of Mr. Papineau in the contemptuous tone he had adopted, was the way to soften down these animosities? He thought that the conduct of the hon. Member for Worcester clearly showed that he was not anxious, like his Majesty's Government, to set the differences at rest. The hon. Member was completely mistaken as to the views of the Canadians. He had asserted that the hon.
 943 944
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion.
 Sir George Grey  admitted, with the hon. and learned Gentleman, the very great importance of the subject brought under the consideration of the House, and he could not help expressing his satisfaction at the tone and temper with which the hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced the subject. It induced him to hope, that in the future discussions which might take place upon this question, a different temper might henceforth prevail, from that
 931 932 933 934 "In order that the composition of the Legislative Council may be in accordance with the true principles of the British Constitution, and with the interests and wants of the inhabitants of this province, as a distinct and independent branch of the Legislature, it would be expedient that the members should be chosen by frequent election, and by rotation, in such manner as to render the said body, as far as possible, independent of the executive power, and of the Assembly." 935
 Sir George Grey : Just so. The hon. and learned Gentleman asked that the views of those whom he represented might be carried into effect. He was proposing to the House to adopt a measure which he had himself declared to be a delusion. He would read an extract from the hon. and learned Member's letter, that the House might know what his opinions then were on that point:—
 "I cannot avoid taking advantage of this opportunity of recording solemnly my opinion as to the demands which, as guardians of a whole people, you are bound to insist on. The object you have in view is to frame a government in accordance with the wants and the feelings of that people. In America no government can unite these conditions, but one that is purely democratic. Any pretence by which it is sought to saddle you with any species of aristocracy ought by you to be scouted and repressed. The Legislative Council, from the beginning, has been such a pretence; and your efforts ought never to relax until you have thoroughly rooted out that wretched imitation of a baneful, mischievous institution. All your other grievances spring from this first source; if this source be not drained up the grievances will never cease to exist. Put an end to the Council, and they will, of necessity, expire at once. All other objects ought, therefore, to yield to the paramount one of extirpating the Council. Make it elective if you will—that, however appears to me a clumsy mode of ridding yourselves of the evil. Why. I ask, are not the Assembly and a governor sufficient for the government of the country?" 936 937 938 939 940
 Sir John Hanmer  rose, in consequence of an observation that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Bath. He stood there as an independent Member, anxious to preserve the dignity and respectability of Parliament, and when he looked at that Chair, and thought of the recollections which it called up, he felt proud to say, that he had a hereditary right to take care of its dignity. He held, that it was contrary to the Constitution, and to the privileges of that House, for a Member of the House of Commons to receive pay from any portion of His Majesty's subjects, in consideration of any particular duty which he might undertake. There was an instance in which a Member of that House (Sir John Trevor) had received a sum of 1,000 l.
 Sir John Hanmer  did not intend to make any personal charge against the hon. Member, but he thought the subject was one which should be brought under the notice of Parliament. He would not shrink from doing so; for if it was a practice that Members of Parliament were in the habit of receiving money in this way, it was time it should be put a stop to.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the conditions on which the motion appeared to have been withdrawn, imposed on him the necessity of saying a few words, not upon the general question, but upon the position in which the immediate question under consideration was left. It was not his intention to detain the House long, and he would merely observe in reference to the motion, that he thought, that with the views entertained by the hon. Member, he had acted wisely in withdrawing it; but the hon. Member had withdrawn it upon grounds which were calculated, in his opinion, to excite expectations on the part of the people of Canada which, if not realized, would leave this question in a worse position than formerly. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not bring forward a question relative to the general state of Canada, but had given notice of a distinct proposition—that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to take into consideration such parts of 31st George 3rd, c. 31, as relate to the Executive and Legislative Councils of the Canadas, for the purpose of rendering the same efficient to the good government of those provinces. The immediate question brought under discussion by the hon. Gentleman was, in point of fact, the substitution of an elective council for a legislative council appointed by the Crown. He had come there prepared to give his negative to that proposition. The hon. Gentleman had withdrawn it in consequence of the speech of the hon. Baronet, the Under-Secretary for the Colonies, on the ground, he presumed, that expectations were held out that this question of a material change in the Exe-
 947 Roebuck 948 949
 Lord Stanley  was fully sensible of the very great importance of the subject, and he thought the thanks of the public were due to the hon. Member for Ipswich for submitting such a resolution to the House, particularly at a time when speculation on railroads was carried to a very great extent. At the same time he was bound to say, that although he concurred in the general principle of the resolution, he was by no means prepared to assent to it in the shape in which it then stood. The wording of it,
 990 maximum minimum 991 ex post facto 992
 Mr. E. Denison  rose to express a wish that the Bill about to be brought in should be made retrospective beyond the point yet suggested. Instead of being confined to Railroad Bills passed in the present Session, he thought it should be made to
 994
 Colonel Bruen : If the hon. Member for Greenock meant to proceed with his Motion, he begged in the first place to present a petition which had been placed in his hands, from certain landed proprietors and freeholders of the county of Carlow, denying the allegation that they had thrown out of their possessions any of their Roman Catholic tannery on account of the votes given by them at the last election.
 Mr. Wallace  believed, that there were a great many respectable persons in the county of Carlow, whose names were not attached to that petition. He begged to remind the House, that his Motion originated in a petition presented from one of the late Members for the county of Carlow, Mr. Visors, in which certain allegations were contained which the hon. and gallant Gentleman who now sat for the county, Colonel Bruen asserted, were not founded in fact. There was also another petition which he (Mr. Wallace) had presented from the tannery of the Messrs. Alexander, landowners in the county of Carlow. Independently of the allegations set forth in those petitions, there was in the Report of the Select Committee on Bribery at Elections, a mass of evidence, the whole of which it would be impossible for him to read to the House, but the substance of which would convince every one whom he addressed, that the Roman Catholic tenantry of the Protestant landlords of Carlow were acted upon by a combination which he could not call otherwise than illegal, and under the influence of which they would be driven from their possessions, and be supplanted by those who professed the Protestant faith. He firmly believed, that a combination of that kind did exist amongst the Protestant landlords of Carlow. He had stated that belief on a former occasion; and although ample opportunity had since been afforded, the allegation had never been denied. It was moreover asserted, that there was an agreement upon oath between the Protestants in that county, to keep up, by every means in their power, that combination which would have the effect of removing the Roman Catholic tenantry from their possessions, and substituting a Protestant tenantry in their place. In the
 995  animus 996 s. s. 997 Oh, oh! 998 999 1000 "That his Majesty be graciously pleased immediately to issue a Royal Commission to proceed to the county of Carlow, there to inquire, first, into the whole facts and circumstances set forth in the petition presented to this House on the 15th of February by Nicholas Hayward Vigor's, Esq., and since by other persons belonging to the said county of Carlow, and especially into those parts of the said petitions which relate to the persecution and Ejectment of the Parliamentary electors of the said county therein referred to, by removing them from their homes and possessions, or otherwise coercing or maltreating them, to the injury or the ruin of them and their families; second, whether any and what measures would best secure the independence of the electors of the county of Carlow, and the purity of election in that county;—and to report their opinions, with the evidence, to this House touching all the matters herein referred to."
 Colonel Bruen  was so anxious that the state of the county of Carlow, and particularly the proceedings there since the year 1830, should be inquired into, that he should support the motion of the hon. Member for Greenock. He had come down to the House prepared to enter at very great length into the particulars of-the charge which had been so often preferred against him and other landlords in that county. But as he perceived the House desired that the discussion should as speedily as possible be brought to a close, he should confine himself to a brief explanation in reply to the hon. Member for Greenock. It had been asserted, that there had been a combination on the part of the landlords in the county of Carlow to extirpate from their possessions all tenants professing the Roman Catholic creed. Now, in the first place, he would meet this charge with a plain and distinct denial. There was not the slightest foundation for the charge. He did maintain, and he thought he should not be opposed in his position, that a landlord had a perfect right to dispose of his property in the manner he might think most fitting, without his being liable to be interfered with by that House, or by any other power. He maintained that a landlord had a right to eke a farm from a tenant who did not
 1006 1007 Oh, oh 1008
 Mr. Hope  did not rise for the purpose of saying anything on the merits of this particular motion, as he had already expressed his desire to forward the inquiry in any way that was calculated to bring it to a satisfactory issue. He confessed, however, that he felt surprised that the hon. Member for Greenock should have thought proper to make charges of so very grave a nature without having at the same time provided himself with something approaching to proof, and without supplying those opposed to him with some distinct and authenticated statement of facts, to which they might address themselves in explanation. He felt himself in the situation of not having had a single fact from the hon. Member for Greenock to which he could offer a reply in explanation. The one sole fact which the hon. Member adduced in support of his charges was, that an hon. Member of that House had, in conversation, admitted that the charges in question were in all probability true; but the speech of the hon. Member did not present any tangible point to which a reply could be offered in the way of refutation. The hon. Member, in referring to the petition of Mr. Vigors, had omitted to read the name of Lord Beresford, although that nobleman was mentioned therein; and this he took as a tacit admission that the hon. Member did not agree in the statement made against his Lordship. But in reference to that subject he would draw the attention of the House to a correspondence in a Dublin paper, between a clergyman named Maher, a curate on Lord Beresford's estate, and a Roman Catholic Priest named Tyrrell, brother of a gentleman of that name examined before the Carlow committee. The hon. Gentleman read extracts from the letters to which he referred. Father Maher wrote as follows, in  The Dublin Evening Post Dear Sir.—We are sadly persecuted in this most unhappy county. You seldom write us a word of consolation, or a word to check our 'present landlords in their mad career. The offence of having exercised the elective franchise conscientiously, and in favour of a Whig candidate (Mr. Raphael), is not to be forgiven, at least in this world. The offender and his family are to be exterminated. N.B.—Lord Beresford has served two town lands with ejectments. Their offence is their Popish creed Perhaps  500 1009 The Leinster Independent In justice to the accused, although he be a Beresford, we lay before our readers a letter of the Reverend Thomas Tyrrell, parish priest of Terrill and contradictory of Mr. Maher's statement. Mr. Tyrell's object, in corning forward to vindicate Lord Beresford, is a laudable one, "to avert the evil." The Dublin Evening Post April, 1835. Sir.—On the receipt of  The Evening Post The Evening Post The Evening Mail Carlow Sentinel The Evening Post Ejectments have not been actually served, only threatened, in Knock bower. I made a mistake. A respectable gentleman promised on the part of the tenantry to procure peace able possession without putting his Lordship to the expense of serving ejectments. April 24,1835. Sir,—I perceive by  The Evening Post of 1010 l s (Signed) THOMAS TYRRELL.
 Colonel Bruen  merely begged to state that the right hon. Gentleman's argument was founded upon a misapprehension. He had stated that he had a right to do what he liked with his own; but he had added, provided he acted in every respect according to law.
 Mr. Wallace , in reply, said, after what had passed, it was not his intention to detain the House by any lengthened remarks, but he could not avoid adverting to the statement made by the hon. Member for: Gloucester (Mr. Hope). That hon. Member had read a letter from the Rev. Mr. Tyrrell, in which he had exculpated Lord Beresford from the charges brought against him by the Rev. Mr. Maher respecting the ejectment from his estates in Carlow of many of his Catholic tenants, on the ground of their being Catholics. Now, he (Mr. Wallace) would not controvert the statements of the Rev. Mr. Tyrrell by any less authority than that on which they had been made,—namely, his own. In reply, therefore, to the letter of the Rev. Mr. Tyrrell of 1835, he would read the letter of the same individual at a subsequent period, when he had a better opportunity of being better informed on the subject on which he wrote. The hon. Member read a letter from the Rev. Thomas Tyrrell addressed to Mr. N. A. Vigors, dated in the present year, in which the rev. gentleman admitted, that he had been wrong in supposing that Lord Beresford had not ejected Catholic tenants from his estates. The letter went on to state, that not fewer than twenty-three families, consisting of ninety-one individuals, had been turned out of their houses, and many of them driven to the roadside as their only shelter; that not one of these had given a vote against the interest of the noble Lord, but that they were turned out on the ground of their being Catholics, and that the places of some of them had been supplied by the introduction of Protestant families from other counties. No answer had been given to the reasons on which he had brought forward this motion, It was true he had not insisted on the ballot as being the most effectual cure for many of the evils of which he had complained. He had not men-
 1030
 Sir George Clerk  hoped that the Bill would not be compulsory, but would leave it to the option of the inhabitants of those towns whether or not they should go to the expense of providing themselves with municipal bodies. He made this observation because he was aware of objections being made to the establishment of Corporations in many towns in Scotland, which dreaded the burdens that might be consequent thereon.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that the hon. Member who bad just sat down took every
 1036 l
 Viscount Morpeth  hoped, that the House would allow him to call its attention to the amendments made by their Lordships on the Constabulary (Ireland) Bill, even at that late hour of the night (a quarter past twelve o'clock.) [ Cries of "adjourn!" adjourn!" 1041 1042
 Colonel Perceval  hoped, that the noble Lord would have no objection to include the society of "Friendly Brothers," which was not an exclusive or political society, in the exemption from the operation of this Bill, which was given to the Freemasons in the 16th clause of it.
 Viscount Morpeth  was not sufficiently acquainted with the nature of the society of "Friendly Brothers" to be able to give his assent to the introduction of such an exemption into the Bill.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that unless the noble Lord would give the same exemption to the "Friendly Brothers" which the 16th clause gave to the Freemasons, he should move the adjournment of this debate till to-morrow. He
 1043
 Mr. Frederick French  trusted, that the noble Lord would not afford the Friendly Brothers the exemption which was now claimed for them. He had always understood in Ireland that they were a political society.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that he was a Friendly Brother as well as a Freemason, and assured the House that the one Association was not a whit more political than the other. The Friendly Brothers was nothing more than a social club.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  had always understood the Friendly Brothers to be a species of mitigated Orangemen. If they were exempted, the House would also have applications to exempt the Riband-Men and the Eccentrics, on the ground that they too were mere sociable clubs.
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  corroborated the statement that, the Friendly Brothers was considered in Ireland a species of mitigated Orange Club.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that if the noble Lord persisted in resisting the suggestion of his hon. and gallant Friend, he should certainly move that the House be counted.
 Viscount Morpeth  hoped that the hon. and learned Sergeant would not persist in that Resolution, for if he did, the Royal assent could not be given to the Bill before the recess, and it was important to the public service that it should be passed with as little delay as possible.
 Lord John Russell  thought that it was a very unusual course to address the Crown to require a Commission to report forthwith respecting an inquiry which was not concluded, without regard to the state of preparation in which it might be, thus taking out of the hands of the Crown the direction of a Commission appointed by the Crown. It was his belief, that if the Government to which the right hon. Gentleman belonged, or the Government of which he himself was a member, had asked the House for a grant of money to the Church of Scotland, without sufficient proof that that grant was necessary, and that the Church of Scotland did not supply abundant means for religious instruction, the House would have declined, and he
 1034 1035
 Lord John Russell  perfectly recollected on the former occasion that after the hon. and gallant Member for Carlow had made his statement, it was considered that the debate was at an end, and he (Lord John Russell) then rose and told the hon. and learned Member for Bradford, that as no question personal to himself was then before the House, it would be better for him to reserve his explanation until the motion on Mr. Vigors's petition was brought on. With respect to the present motion, it certainly was one entirely without precedent. He thought, to issue a Commission to inquire whether any person had been removed from his house and possessions in the county of Carlow during a certain period would be a most inconvenient course for the House of Commons to take. It would be a very doubtful and perplexing matter to inquire whether, on certain occasions, tenants had been ejected from their farms; because if the fact of their being ejected was established, the question would still remain whether they were ejected on account of their being bad tenants, in arrear of rent, or whether it was on account of the votes
 1004
 Lord John Russell , in explanation, stated, that the payment of the Commissioners was not to commence from July last, when the Commission issued, but from the period when the Commission was opened.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson , like the noble Lord who had just sat down, could not give his consent to a resolution of this kind unless it were to be made applicable to all railway Bills which had already passed. It would be most unjust to apply a rule to railroads hereafter to be undertaken which was not made applicable to those already commenced. The number of years at the end of which a revision should take place was a very fit subject for the consideration of a Committee. As far as he (Mr. Poulett Thomson) could form any opinion upon the subject, he should think twenty or twenty-one years would be the most proper period that could be fixed upon; but before any decision were come to upon that point, further consideration would be necessary. In any Bill upon the subject introduced by his hon. Friend, the Member for Ipswich, he should also be glad to have a provision introduced imposing upon all railway companies the obligation of making returns to Parliament of a statistical nature, by which the House might be placed in possession of the number of passengers conveyed on each railroad, the weight of goods carried, speed, wear and tear, &c. If a clause imposing such an obligation upon all companies were introduced into the Bill, he thought great advantages would result from it. Owing to the kindness of the proprietors of the Manchester and Liverpool railroad, he had received, with respect to that line of conveyance, such a statement as he had described, and he begged to assure the House that nothing could be more interesting. It threw a great deal of light upon these undertakings generally, and pointed out, in a striking and incontrovertible manner, the great advantages which the public derived from them. He trusted that his hon. Friend would yield to the suggestion of the noble Lord, namely, withdraw his motion, and move for leave to bring in a Bill.
 Mr. Horsman  felt himself to a certain degree implicated by the motion of the right hon. Baronet—as he had the honour to be one of the Commissioners whose conduct was under discussion—and as, before he was a Member of that House, he was one of those on whom both individually and collectively the hon. Bart. who spoke last (Sir G. Clerk) had made his personal attacks—he trusted that the House would excuse his intruding on them for a moment to explain the position of the Commissioners, of whom the public had hitherto heard chiefly through their opponents. And first he must say, as one of those Commissioners, that he felt the motion of the right hon. Baronet was of an invidious
 1037 1038 1039 1040
 Mr. Francis Bruen  thought he had already fully disposed of the accusations brought against him, and that it was not necessary for him to go further into them. With respect to ejectments, he would repeat that he had never turned a Catholic from his estate, and that he had never enforced such arrears as the hon. Member had alluded to.
 Mr. Francis Bruen : Sir, it was not my intention to have said a word on this subject, but for the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I had thought that if the right hon. Gentleman had attended to the statement made on a former night by my hon. Relative, he would have found that my hon.
 1022 1023 1024 1025 per fas et nefas 1026
 Colonel Bruen  begged to say, in explanation as to what had been said by the hon. Member for Kildare, that in the case of Mr. Caulfield, it was true he had taken the land off his hands at Ids own request. With respect to the use made by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of the term "savages," he was sorry to find his meaning so misconstrued. He had used the term in the warmth of
 1029
 Sir Henry Hardinge  entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Bradford, that it was not necessary to present an address to his Majesty to appoint a Commission, or to have a Committee of that House, to inquire further into the circumstances of this case. He agreed with the hon. Member that the Intimidation Committee of last year went with great detail into the question before the House. This year the same Committee again met, but so little was the disposition of the Members to enter on the subject, that they had abstained from the inquiry. They did not appear to think that further information was necessary as to the conduct of the landlords; but they were satisfied with the evidence before the House, and did not think that more evidence was necessary as to the county of Carlow, or the other counties in Ireland. Other hon. Members also, who generally adopted the same views as the hon. Member for Bradford, thought that the evidence already obtained was ample. He would leave it to any hon. Member to say whether the intimidation of the priests in the county of Carlow, and in other counties in Ireland, as had been proved before the Committee, was not tenfold compared to that of the landlords. The hon. Member for Bradford stated, that the priests always exercised their influence openly, but the landlords re sorted to secret intimidation. He denied that there was any act of intimidation on the part of the landlord over the tenantry, that would not instantly become known; but the priests interfered in a manner that was not known to the public, and worked upon the religious fears of the tenantry. He denied the premises laid down by the hon. Member; but he agreed in his conclusion, that it was not necessary to go further into the investigation of the subject. He thought that every hon. Member who had taken an impartial view of the subject, would agree that the hon. Member for Gloucester (Mr. Hope) had most completely vindicated his noble Friend, and refuted the charges brought against him as to his conduct to his tenants in Carlow. He believed that it had been satisfactorily shown
 1018 1019
 Mr. Warburton  was very much disposed to agree with the Government in thinking that a Commission, such as was proposed was not necessary, it being in fact proposed, to institute an inquiry into circumstances which were perfectly notorious. That intimidation had prevailed on the part of the landlords of Ireland, and that this species of intimidation had been met by counter-influence—intimidation, if you will—on the part of the priesthood, he did not believe any gentleman who had been a member of the Intimidation Committee would be inclined to dispute. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had referred to the proceedings of the Irish Parliament, but he might have adverted to a more recent period. He remembered Mr. Dawson's stating, when the Catholic Question was under discussion, that the freeholders of Ireland were driven to the poll
 1015 No, no 1016 "DEAR SIR—I am much obliged to you for your constant communications on the subject of the elections. "I receive from various quarters reports of the intimidation exercised by the priests over the Catholic voters, and many instances have been communicated to the Government, in which the desire on the part of the voters has been to support their landlords, but have been prevented by the denunciations of their clergy. There are also cases in which voters have asked for protection. "You will be so good as to forward to me a short abstract of cases of intimidation, &c, that have come to your knowledge during the elections in the south, as well as the opinion of any of the magistrates with whom you may have been in communication. "Also as to the effect produced by the precautionary measures adopted by the Government on requisitions from the Sheriffs, of moving troops and police into contested counties prior to the day of election; the question of military interference in the election may come before Parliament, and the means of full explanation should be at hand. "I am, &c, &c, (Signed) "H. HARDINGE," "Castle, January 31, 1835." 1017
 Mr. Warburton  begged to be permitted to say, with respect to the subject of confession, there was no evidence whatever before the Intimidation Committee to prove that it had been used for political purposes.
 Mr. Morrison  spoke as follows * * 978 979 980 "The public is at present without any protection even against a further indefinite extension of demand. In cases of dispute, there is no tribunal but the boards of the companies
 981 l l l l l /. l 982 983 984 985 986 l. l l 987 988 "That in all Bills for Railways, or other public works of that description, it be made a condition, with a view to the protection of the public interests, which might otherwise be seriously compromised, that the dividends be limited to a certain rate, or that power be reserved to Parliament of revising and fixing at the end of every twenty years, the tolls chargeable on passengers and goods conveyed."
 Mr. Morrison , after the general expression of the feeling of the House, begged to withdraw his motion, and in its stead to move for leave to bring in a Bill to the effect stated by the noble Lord.
 Mr. James Oswald  was sorry, that the Minister had, from the first, allowed the Commissioners to report from time to time; and he hoped that they would now, on no account, consent to their making any Report which did not include Glasgow as well as Edinburgh. In his own opinion, the time was gone by for making any grant to the Church of Scotland, and such a grant would only serve; the cause. Of the Dissenters, and injure, the Church.
 Dr. Bowring  contended, that when this Commission was granted, it was left open to the House of Commons to decide whether any grant should be made to the Church of Scotland or not.
 Mr. Gully  observed, that it was very seldom that he claimed the indulgence of the House; but on the present occasion, after what had transpired, he begged to trespass for a short time on their attention. After having heard the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Bradford, it was quite impossible that he could refrain from making a few observations, inasmuch as he felt that he had himself in some degree calumniated the hon. and learned Gentleman—if what the hon. and learned Gentleman stated of himself was the fact. He certainly heard Mr. O'Connell accuse the hon. and learned Member on one occasion in this House of spending 7,040 l. l 1005
 Mr. Gully  said, he had the letter at home, and to-morrow he would bring it down to the House, to show that the writer had stated to him, that he had received a letter from the hon. and learned Member, and that he had a great mind to produce it to Mr. O'Connell.
 Mr. Hardy  was anxious to explain. He thought the hon. Member for Middlesex could not have been present when the
 1003 Laughter
 Mr. Hardy  should be very greatly obliged if the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Pontefract would produce any letter addressed by him (Mr. Hardy) to any person, that letter should certainly be read to the House and the public; because if the hon. Member could produce any letter regarding bribery, it would be found stated in that letter, that he (Mr. Hardy) would have nothing to do with any proceeding of that kind, but would rather lose his election.
 Mr. Hardy  believed those gentlemen who were sitting behind and around him had nothing very material to say with reference to the motion of the hon. Member for Greenock. That motion could not be considered extraordinary after Mr. Visors himself had stated, that unless the facts con-
 1001 l 1002
 Mr. Hume  thought the attack which had just been made upon the late hon. and learned Member for Dublin was the most extraordinary he had ever heard. When Mr. O'Connell charged the hon. Member for Bradford with bribery, he never thought fit to stand up and deny it. Nay, the charge had been distinctly made against him twice, and yet he sat still. He spoke from his own knowledge of the fact. He was present when Mr. O'Connell twice charged the hon. Member with bribery, and he never rose to assert, as he had now, in the absence of Mr. O'Connell, done, to state that it was false, calumnious, and unfounded. As Mr. O'Connell was not now present, he thought that it would have been as well if the hon. and learned Member had waited a few days before he gave so direct a contradiction to the charge, knowing, as he must have known, that no explanation could then be given. But when the- hon. and learned Member also said that Mr. Vigors did not before a certain Committee offer any explanation on the subject of the allegations contained in his petition, the hon. Member ought to know that that Committee was appointed under special instructions connected with the application of certain moneys, and that it would not have been possible for that Committee to have admitted any explanation of the kind.
 Mr. Hume  rose only to mate a single observation. His hon. Friend, the Member for Ipswich, had alluded to an instance of the pernicious effect of vesting a monopoly in individuals which ought not to be passed by with indifference. He meant the monopoly given to a particular person in a particular lighthouse, from which, for years past, that individual had been in the receipt of not less than 13,000 l
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion.
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  said, that it had not been his intention to say a word on this discussion, but as the hon. and gallant Member had alluded to the conduct of the landlords of the county of Carlow, and
 1027 1028
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  must say, in justice to the hon. Member for the town of Carlow, that he had never heard him spoken of as a landlord in any other terms than those of kindness and respect.
 Mr. Gisborne  was opposed to the first branch of the alternative in the hon. Gentleman's resolution—namely, that which proposed to limit the amount of the dividends. In his opinion, that would be the sure way of securing improvidence in the management of the affairs of any company. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the Turnpike Act in support of his proposition. He (Mr. Gisborne) had never known a case in which the tolls had been reduced. The other branch of the alternative in the hon. Gentleman's resolution—namely, that which reserved to Parliament the right of revising and fixing at the end of every twenty years the tolls chargeable on passengers and goods, he should not oppose. Some limit to the continuance of existing tolls appeared to him to be very proper. Whether twenty years was the period at
 989
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had only one remark to offer. As a Bill of this description was about to be introduced, as it appeared, with the general concurrence of the House, he hoped he should be allowed to avail himself of the opportunity that would then be afforded, of carrying into execution a design which he had long contemplated, namely, to introduce a provision making it obligatory upon all railways to convey his Majesty's mail at the same rate as they carried all manner of other goods. A provision of this kind would be necessary, because as railways were monopolies, they might otherwise make what exorbitant charge they pleased for the conveyance of the mail.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would take the hon. Gentleman on his own declaration. He would join issue with him. He admitted that a man had a perfect right to act according to law, but he would maintain that if a man used his legal right for the purpose of controlling the opinion of another, he violated the constitutional principles of a free Government. He was not assuming that the hon. Member entertained this intent on, he wished to guard himself specifically against being supposed to do so; but he would say, that if it were stated now,
 1012 1013 1014
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no fault to find with the speech of the
 1011
 Mr. Gillon  had read the evidence given before the Commission, and it appeared to him that the Dissenters were not precluded by the highness of their seat-rents from supplying religious instruction to the poorer members of their congregations. He took this opportunity of protesting in behalf of the Dissenters against the Report of the Commission, as the Report of a one-sided body. He very much regretted that Government had been induced to appoint that Commission, and he could see no good that was likely to result from it. The effect of it would be to increase the religious dissensions which unfortunately prevailed to such an extent in Scotland". If the Commission recommended an endowment to one particular sect in that country, at present denominated the Established Church, it would take a one sided view of the subject, and if Government granted a sum in compliance with that recommendation, the measure would be productive of much dissatisfaction among the people of Scotland.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, the Catholic priesthood was forced to use their influence over the people with regard to political matters to counteract the intimidation of the landlords. But it was not merely the Roman Catholic priests who used their influence for that purpose. The ministers of the Established Church had exerted the power they possessed in a most improper manner; and he knew an instance of" a minister of the Church of England who, at the Carrickfergus election, acted as agent for procuring money to be expended for corrupt purposes. Some years ago, when a question most interesting to Catholics was being discussed, the landlords attempted to force their tenants to vote according to their pleasure, and the Roman Catholic clergy then thought it their duty to interfere and they told their flocks that their eternal interest was involved in the manner in which they disposed of their franchise. He thought they were justified in doing so, for it was the duty of the clergy to enforce on their flocks that the exercise of the elective franchise was as a sacred trust, a matter of religion. To show by what means the landlords in Ireland attempted to control the votes of their tenants, he would mention the conduct of a landlord in Louth, who set fire to some part of the property of a tenant who voted against him. The tenant brought
 1020
 Sir Robert Bateson  was not anxious to prolong the debate, but felt called upon to make a few observations in reply to what had fallen from the hon. Member who addressed them just now, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. They had heard complaints of an expression made use of in designating the assemblies that had taken place for the purposes of intimidation by some term borrowed from the conduct in which they were engaged and the objects which they had in view. The right hon. Gentleman had complained that bodies of men assembling for the purpose of intimidation had been described as savages; but he contended that when men resorted to such means to carry out their objects by violence and intimidation no peculiar nicety of phrase ought to be used in designating their conduct. The hon. Gentleman who had taken up the defence of the people had stated an instance that had occurred in the
 1021
 Sir William Rae  rose to move an address to his Majesty, that he would be graciously pleased to require the Church of Scotland Endowment Commissioners to report forthwith on the matters referred to them, in so far as the same relate to the city of Edinburgh. He trusted that some satisfactory Report on this subject would be returned as soon as possible. A number of petitions had been forwarded to the House, to show that the Commission had not been able to provide for the wants of the Church, and the poor were therefore deprived of the means of religious instruction. The citizens had themselves subscribed a large sum to provide religious instruction for the poor, and all that was required was, that Government would enable them to bring down the seat-rents, so as that the poorer classes might enjoy the advantage. He had felt it his duty to bring the question before the House on a former occasion, and he had made a motion to that effect, on which a debate was taken. The question was decided by the noble Lord opposite requesting him to withdraw his motion, and assuring him that the Government would appoint a Commission to inquire into the subject. The Commission was appointed accordingly; and he appealed to the recollection of every hon. Member who was present, whether the instruction to them to report from time to time, was not understood to mean for the purpose of applying a remedy to those places where the want of church accommodation was most pressingly felt? Yet what was the result? Instead of any remedy being applied, the Commissioners up to this moment had actually made no Report at all; and, what was still worse, he learned from high authority that none would be made this
 1033 l
 Viscount Sandon  heartily concurred in
 993
 Mr. Pryme  said, that he had carefully attended to the proceedings in the Committee on the Bill, and he saw no reason whatever for objecting to the measure. Indeed, the only opposition to the measure proceeded from two cattle-jobbers, who were in the habit of turning 200 or 300 cattle on the common at a time, to the injury of the poor inhabitants. Allotments were more valuable to the poor man than common rights.
 Mr. Plumptre  seconded the motion. Every class of the community had expressed their wish that the House would afford them protection on the Lord's Day, and enable them to rest from their fatiguing labours. But this was the lowest ground on which the principle of the Bill could be defended. In legislating for the West-India slaves they preserved for their use part of Saturday and the whole of Sunday. There were other considerations necessary to be acted on than those involved in the authority of the fourth commandment. Other commandments had additional influence imparted to them by the force of human laws. Legislators did not suffer the murderer to escape unpunished. His hon. Friend had evinced his zeal, his sincerity, and great perseverance in his efforts for the protection of the trading classes, and the public might feel assured that he would bring the subject again and again
 1073
 Captain Pechell  said, that he had presented some petitions praying for the better. observance of the Sabbath, and was anxious to support some legislative measure on the subject. He found it impossible, however, to give his vote in favour of the Bill before the House, because it was quite impossible to modify it so as to make it a tolerable measure. From most of the fishing ports the fishing boats sailed on Sunday afternoon, the fishermen coming in on the Saturday, to enable them to perform their religious duties. The hon. Baronet's Bill would put a stop to the whole of the fisheries of this country.
 Colonel Thompson  would oppose the Bill on a broader ground than any that had been stated yet. He would assert roundly, that there was no basis in the Christian Scriptures for the attempt to enforce the Judaical observance of the Sabbath; and, if Members on the other side thought differently, he challenged them to produce
 1075
 Mr. Aglionby , amidst general cries of "Question," read a letter, which he had received from the Secretary of the Mechanics' Institution at Cockermouth, thanking him for the opposition he offered to the Sunday Bills. He thought that letter was a proof that the statement of the hon. Baronet, that the poorer classes were all in favour of the Bill before the House was not correct.
 Mr. Shaw  would support the second reading of the Bill, although he could not approve of all its details. He felt, with the many petitions that had addressed the House on the subject, in petitions presented by himself and other Members, that some enactment to enforce the better observance of the Lord's day was imperatively required, and he thought the proper mode of dealing with the measure then before them was to go into Committee upon it, and there to retain what was good, and to strike out what was objectionable in its provisions. He concurred in the statements of the preamble, that it was the bounden duty of Parliament to protect every class of society against being required to sacrifice their comfort and religious privileges on the Sabbath day, and that the laws now in existence were found practically insufficient for that purpose. He should like to see the various and nearly obsolete statutes bearing on the question repealed, and one simple and efficacious enactment substituted for them. Such an act, he thought, ought to provide against hiring, trading, drunkenness, gaming, sporting, and everything which was inconsistent with public decorum—in all these respects, then, he approved of the present Bill—but he did not conceive it possible in a great commercial country, such as this, to retain the clauses against vessels sailing, or matters being transmitted by public conveyances on the Sab-
 1076
 Lord Arthur Lennox  expressed his determination to vote in favour of the second reading, for the same reason as that stated by the preceding speaker.
 Mr. Pryme  had voted for former Bills introduced by the hon. Baronet, in the hope the severity of their enactments might be mitigated in Committee; but perceiving that the present measure went even further than any of the preceding Bills on the same subject, he could not consent to vote for the second reading.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce , though he could not acquiesce in all the enactments of the Bill, would vote for the second reading, because he thought it the duty of that House and of every Christian Government to sanction, as far as possible, by human enactments, the due observance of the Lord's day.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  rose to remind the hon. Member for Cambridge, who had expressed his intention to vote against the present Bill, that the Bill was the identical measure, word for word, to which that hon. Member had, on former occasions, given his support. He did not mean to follow the example of the hon. Member for Cambridge, and should certainly vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 Sir Stratford Canning  was favourable to the principle of the Bill, but he was anxious to guard himself against the supposition that he was ready to go the whole length of its details. Considering that the subject was one of great importance, considering also the number of petitions which had been presented with respect to it, and the different quarters from which they came, he thought it would be more becoming in the House to allow the Bill to go to a Committee, there to be altered, than to throw it out at the present stage.
 Lord John Russell  should not feel indisposed to vote for the second reading if he thought it possible that the Bill could be amended in Committee, but the whole Bill was, in his opinion, so defective, that not a single clause could be adopted with advantage. He therefore objected to proceeding any further with the measure, because it was calculated to cast ridicule upon every future attempt at legislation on the subject.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  was rendered almost wholly inaudible by the impatience of the House to divide. He was understood to express his regret that the noble Lord did not give his sanction to the Bill, and to recommend the hon. Baronet (Sir Andrew Agnew), in deference to the feeling of the House, to make his measure less extensive in its operation.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  had voted for the first reading of the Bill, because he thought it only right to give the hon. Member an opportunity of introducing his measure. He had since examined the provisions of the Bill, and they were certainly of such a nature that he must oppose them. He thought that those hon. Members who had expressed an intention to vote for the second reading were only practising a delusion on the hon. Baronet (Sir Andrew Agnew), because every one of them had expressed a desire to see the Bill totally changed in Committee. It was not his lot to have travelled abroad, but, from all that he had heard, he believed the Sabbath was far better observed in this country than in any other; and he was of opinion, that no legislative enactment that could be devised would compel individuals to lead a more moral or more religious life. He was unwilling to interfere with the amusements of the lower classes. He liked to see the children in his neighbourhood amusing themselves on a Sunday at a game of cricket, or in taking a walk in the after-
 1078
 Mr. Hardy  said, that as his hon. Friend wished for a stringent observance of the Sabbath, others a less stringent observance of it, and another class of persons a very lax observance of it, he thought the only course the House could take was, to permit the Bill to go into Committee, when every Gentleman would have the opportunity of submitting such amendments as appeared to them proper, in order to make the Bill assume the shape of an Act of Parliament.
 Mr. Pryme  rose to move, that this together with the following clause be expunged from the Bill. As the law now stood, the tithe-owner had no remedy against the owner of the land: his remedy was against the occupier, and he asked what consideration there was given in this Bill, which would always give the tithe-owner the full and in many cases more than the full value of his tithe, that justified the putting into his hands the additional remedy, provided by these two clauses, against the owner of the land. He (Mr. Pryme) had taken the trouble of looking into several Enclosure bills for commuting the tithes of different parishes into a corn-rent—Bills passed with the consent of the Incumbent, and he had invariably found that the clause of distress gave the tithe-owner only the right to come upon the occupier for his corn-rent; so that if the occupier became bankrupt he lost his tithe, as the landlord did his rent. He had never known any one of those Bills in which any other remedy was given; and it did appear to him, that throughout this Bill as well as on this particular point, everything was done for the benefit of the tithe-owner, and no care was taken of the interests of the tithe-payer.
 The Solicitor General  said, it appeared
 1080
 Mr. Pryme  observed, that in all Enclosure Bills to which he had looked, when the remedy was given against the goods of the tenant, there was always a restrictive clause limiting the tithe-owner to such crops, utensils, stock, &c, as he found lying upon the premises.
 The Solicitor- General  said, that allowing the tithe owner had a right to his remedy against the goods of the tenant, in respect of which the tenant was afterwards to take credit against the landlord, to restrict him to such goods as he found lying upon the land was in fact, to leave him remediless; it was arguing  ad absurdum unilateral
 Sir Henry Verney  considered, that as this Bill would render tithes greatly more valuable than they were at present, the objection of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Town), was one of great importance and well worthy of the noble Lord's attention. The noble Lord (John Russell) would by carrying this Bill confer a benefit on the country only equal in extent to that which he had already conferred upon it by the Reform Bills and the Poor-law Bill; but he (Sir H. Verney) did think, that in giving
 1081
 Lord John Russell : The question in my opinion is' not whether the amount of benefit conferred by this Bill on the tithe-owner or the tithe-payer be the greater. The object of this Bill is, that whatever the amount of the rent-charge which it gives the tithe- owner, whether one-third or a-half, or one-quarter more or less than the present amount of his tithe, the tithe-owner should have a sufficient remedy for its recovery. Now I conceive these clauses to provide no more than the sufficient remedy; however, should the House think otherwise, I shall propose another, which I have now in my hand, giving him the power of bringing an action for his rent charge. Some remedy he must have, or the Bill will be inoperative.
 Lord John Russell  admitted, that there was great hardship in these personal tithes; and said, that for his own part, he should be glad to abolish them. At the same time he must observe, that it did not appear to him to be just to abolish in this way, by a single clause, the established claims of the
 1082
 The Attorney-General  observed, that hon. Gentlemen seemed to have forgotten that this was a Bill for the commutation of tithe. Now, to propose the abolition of tithe under a Bill of which the object was the commutation of tithe, was about as preposterous as to propose to abolish municipal institutions under a Bill of which the object was to amend and reform such institutions. For such a proposition as that made by the hon. Member for Fins-bury he could find no precedent, nor indeed anything analogous, save the proposition to which he had just alluded. Having said thus much, he would only, add, that if the hon. Member would bring in a distinct Bill for the abolition of "all tithe of fish, or of fishing, or of personal tithe," he (the Attorney-General) would pledge himself to support it. But he must oppose any proposition which was likely to clog the present Bill with a clause which was inconsistent both with its title and its spirit.
 Lord John Russell  said, if the House should be of opinion that personal tithes should be abolished, he should be ready to bring in a Bill on the subject, but he did not think it should make part of the present measure.
 Mr. Hodges  seconded the amendment. He believed that the poor had been most unmercifully used by such Bills as the present. Some small sums had been given for their privileges on commons, &c; and then those invaluable rights were extinguished for ever. After all that had passed, the House ought to look with extreme jealousy on all such measures, especially as the poor had now so few of these privileges remaining, and the more particularly after the passing of the Poor Laws Amendment Act, which threw the poor on their own resources more strictly than ever.
 Mr. Goulburn  protested against the decision to which the House had come. There was no objection urged against the Bill which did not apply to all Enclosure Bills. It was not true that the poor were deprived of their rights by the Bill; on the contrary, allotments of land were set apart for them, which would be enclosed for them gratuitously. He believed that few of the Members who had taken part in the division, were acquainted with the merits of the question; and, in order to afford them an opportunity of reading the evidence which was given in the Committee upon the Bill, he would move, as an amendment, "that the Bill be read a third time that day fortnight."
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe : With reference to the observation of the Attorney-General what he proposed with respect to tithes was as preposterous as the project for getting rid altogether of corporations when proposed as an amendment to the Bill for their regulation, expressed a hope that should any such Bill be brought down to that House, that the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman would not be forgotten.
 Lord John Russell  said, though he should be ready to introduce a Bill to abolish personal tithes, he could not include the tithe on fish; but he should propose to submit to the Commissioners that they should make an inquiry into the circumstances as regarded the coasts of Norfolk, Cornwall, and other places, with a view to some measure being framed on the subject.
 Mr. Gally Knight  rose to move an additional clause, but was very indistinctly heard. He was understood to say, that there was not enough of land to bear the amount of tithe with which it was proposed to burden it by those who sought to put an end to tithe on personal labour, and he decidedly objected to money payments, on account of the fluctuations to which the value of money was at all times subject. He therefore would move a clause to the effect, that "it be enacted, that at any time, and from time to time, after the tithes of any lands shall have been commuted under the hands and seals of the Commissioners, it shall be lawful for the owner of the tithes or rent-charge, or apportioned rent in lieu of the tithes of any such lands respectively, to agree with the owner of the same lands for the sale and extinguishment of any such rent-charge or apportioned rent-charge, either in commutation of any messuages, lands, or other hereditaments, of competent value, or of a gross sum or sums of money of competent amount, such value, of land or amount of money to be, by the means hereafter mentioned, ascertained to be a full and proper consideration or price for such purchase, and the title to the messuages, lands or hereditaments proposed as such consideration, being approved of as hereafter is provided." The clause was brought up. 1084
 Lord Cole  said, that if the Friendly Brothers were to be excluded from the operation of the Bill, he should offer no further opposition to it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that the noble Lord had stated the question contended for by the Opposition correctly. It was this—whether an important measure to the public was to pass, or the wishes of a few individuals attended to?
 Mr. Shaw  thought it would be much better to decline the Lords' amendment in the case of the Freemason Societies, than to retain it and refuse to extend it to the Friendly Brothers Societies.
 Lord John Russell  wished to call to the recollection of the House, that in many previous Bills an exemption had been made in favour of Freemason Societies, while as yet the Friendly Brothers Societies were comparatively unknown.
 Dr. Baldwin  observed, that he was well acquainted with the majority of the members of the City of Cork Friendly Brother Societies, and could, without hesitation, state that they were almost to a man persons of Orange politics. There was not a Catholic among them. He therefore hoped the Government would continue to resist the proposition.
 Lord Cole  said, he would try to meet the difficulty by adopting the suggestion of the learned Recorder for Dublin, and move that the Lords' amendment to Clause 16 be not agreed to, or in other words, that the exemption in favour of Freemason Societies be withdrawn from the clause.
 Dr. Bowring  opposed the motion. The Bill was another encroachment on the few remaining rights and privileges of the poor. He thought it was that of which no well-wisher of the poor could approve. Those who had property in the neighbourhood of these enclosures obtained compensation, but the poor, who had only privileges, procured little, often nothing. It was a very general opinion, and he feared it was too well founded, that these privileges of the poor were, and long had been, too little considered. With respect to the present Bill, he was authorised to say, that the poor and labouring classes in the neighbourhood of the proposed enclosure were unanimously against it; and that it was supported only by a few of the aristocracy of the neighbourhood. He should therefore move as an amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that if the amendment should be agreed to, he would then propose, as an amendment, that the Bill should be read a third time that day nine months; and if that should be defeated, other hon. Members would move amendments which would have for their object the getting rid of the Bill.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the amendment proposed by the right hon. Gentleman appeared to him to be quite unprecedented. He hoped that those who before voted in favour of the Bill would now vote against it, in order to maintain the regularity of the proceedings of the House.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Bill would deprive the poor of the right of feeding their cattle and sheep. It was a downright robbery.
 Mr. Richard Potter  said, that a few rich persons, who originally opposed the Bill, were, it is true, satisfied, and then the attorney employed against the measure threw his poorer clients overboard.
 Mr. Townley  defended the Bill, and said that the explanations made in the Committee had satisfied those who were originally opposed to the measure.
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  entirely concurred in the propriety of this amendment, and in the correctness of the sentiments of the hon.
 1065
 Mr. Hughes Hughes  hoped the House would not depart from its usual practice, in a case where the rights of the poor were concerned. The Bill was lost to all intents and purposes.
 Mr. William Miles  supported the amendment, and contended that allotments of land under enclosures were much more beneficial to the poor than a common right of pasture. Not one inhabitant in ten of a parish made use of a common for purposes of pasturage; but when allotments were made, every inhabitant participated in the benefit.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison : The right hon. Baronet who spoke on the other side of the House indulged in an admonition addressed to me as well as to other hon. Members, on the danger of the path on which he appre-
 1105 1106
 Mr. Dillon Brown  did not rise to discuss the general merits of the Bill or of the subject upon the present occasion,
 1113
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that he did not see why the county funds should be
 1118
 Lord John Russell  said, that the proper time to discuss the merits of the Bill would be after it should be printed; but he could not refrain from saying, that he did not think the Bill was at all calculated to cast any stigma on the magistracy of the country. He did not see why a more economical mode of administering the county rates might not be adopted without casting any imputation upon the county magistrates. He would be happy to see the subject receive full investigation which it would naturally do in the ordinary course of business, when the Bill would be introduced, printed, and circulated. Hon. Members would then have a much better opportunity of legislating with effect on the assessment and administration of county rates than they could now do, on the mere statement of the hon. Member for Middlesex. He felt, that it would be a harsh and unjust interpretation to take it for granted, as the noble Lord (G. Somerset) apprehended it might be, that the introduction of such a Bill was a fact in itself calculated to cast a stigma on the magistracy of England. The inference was not at all warranted by the circumstance. He was not prepared to say, that he would support the Bill of the hon. Gentleman; but he would state, that he believed there was a great wish in many parts through the country to have a more intimate control over the outlay of the funds of the corporations than at present existed.
 Lord John Russell : Sir, in reply to the question put by the hon. Member for Limerick, I beg to state, that it is my intention, as soon as the hour for public business arrives, to move that the amendments introduced by the other House of Parliament be read a first time and printed. When those amendments have been printed and in the hands of hon. Members, their effect and bearing upon the principle of the measure will be fully and clearly understood. I am quite sure that the House will agree with me, that the course which I have ventured to point out is that most becoming the Members of this House, and best calculated to express the calm and deliberate sense of this branch of the Legislature. In the letters of a distinguished foreigner, recently published, speaking in reference to the events of the last year, and to the differences which occurred between the two Houses of Parliament, the writer remarks, as a matter of curious observation, that the assembly which was most popular in its constitution evinced the greatest degree of calmness and temper, whilst that branch
 1088 1089 1090
 Lord John Russell  merely rose to say, that whatever reason there might be in the hon. Baronet's speech, it was not to be taken as an answer to anything he had said. He had not entered into the merits of the House of Lords. He had said nothing, nor had he intended to say anything upon the question whether or not they were deserving of that high panegyric which the hon. Baronet had pronounced upon them. He therefore hoped the House would not be led by the hon. Baronet's speech into a discussion which was altogether foreign to the occasion.
 Mr. David Roche  did not rise to prolong the discussion, but to protest against the assertion of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin University, that the Protestants of Ireland would accept with pleasure the amended Bill. Such might be the feeling of Orangemen, but he denied that the Irish Protestants generally would derive any gratification from the destruction of the Corporations. In the town which he had the honour to represent, the Roman Catholics constituted the majority of the population, but he could conceive no reason why they should not be allowed to manage their own local affairs. The right hon. Member for Cumberland had spoken of Ireland as he might have done of Jamaica or any dependency of the Crown of England; he denied that Ireland was a dependency; it was part of the United Kingdom, and he claimed for it perfect equality with England. If Irishmen were driven to look for justice to a Repeal of the Union, he would not shrink from advocating the repeal. But he believed that, though a majority of the House of Lords was opposed to the interests of Ireland, the majority of the people of England and of Scotland were anxious to see justice done to that country.
 Mr. Shaw  was persuaded his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) would be very willing to abide a just determination of the question that had been raised by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, whether the right hon. Baronet was more strictly pursuing the principles on which he had acted in the Government of Lord Grey, or other members of the same Cabinet, driven, as they now appeared, beyond every limit they had prescribed to themselves; forced on by a party with whom they had no community of principle or real bond of union, but with which they were merely connected by a temporary combination formed to drive a rival Government from office, and which had resulted in conferring place upon the present Ministry, while it had vested all real power in the irresponsible hands of the most extreme and violent portion of their nominal supporters. His noble Friend (Lord Clements) seemed to have built up castles for the mere pleasure of demolishing them, for neither the right hon. Baronet nor any one on that side of the House had used the expression "British dominion" as applied to Ireland, and the term "concessions" had been familiarly used by all parties in respect to Roman Catholic disabilities, without—for anything he had ever heard before that night — giving offence to the most fastidious. He must certainly concur with his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) in saying, that it was the unexpected speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, which had provoked the present premature, and, perhaps, not very regular discussion. He (Mr. Shaw) was at a loss to conceive what new light had broken in upon the noble Lord, or whether he had received any new instructions since the very question involved in the amendments
 1107 1108
 Sir George Sinclair  said, it is well, Sir, for the Protestants of the empire, and especially of Ireland, that the measures adopted by this House are subjected to the revision of another tribunal, which it is not in the power of his Majesty's Ministers to cajole, to intimidate, or to dissolve. No public assembly deserves or enjoys at the present eventful crisis so prominent a place in the confidence, respect, and gratitude of the religious and enlightened portion of the community. By a great majority of those who have anything to lose, and who are interested in maintaining the institutions of the country, the House of Lords is considered as the main bulwark of our church establishments and the chief barrier against democratic encroachment. The noble Lord may think it proper to hold conciliatory language in this House, but I would call his attention to a letter which has this day appeared in the  Morning Chronicle "I wish to know whether the British people are ready to submit in quiet and without remonstrance to the irresponsible, and therefore despotic authority of that assembly, or will they now join with me to make the union real, by insisting, in a voice too distinct to be misunderstood, and too loud to be neglected, upon an organic change in that assembly, such as has become absolutely necessary for the consolidation of a real union between both countries, and for the advancement of good government in each? 1. We will have Lord Lyndhurst's Bill kicked out. No compromise, no submission; the Lords have commenced the collision; they have taken their choice to rest that collision upon the insulting iniquity of refusing Corporate Reform to Ireland. We only follow in their track by throwing out the Bill, and join issue with them to the country. 2. We appeal to the people of England for aid and assistance; we are entitled to that aid and assistance. In the name of the people of Ireland I call upon you for that aid and assistance." 1091 Several hon. Members; 1092 1093 1094
 Sir George Sinclair  had not said the Peers never would do justice to Ireland but that what Mr. O'Connell called justice to Ireland, never could be accomplished without an organic change in the constitution of the House of Lords.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  rejoiced that the hon. Member who had just addressed the House for the first time had signalized himself by manfully stating to the House that he would propose an organic change in the constitution of the country. He, however, was convinced that such a course, instead of preserving the institutions of the country, would in a very short time, lead to the establishment of a democracy. He acknowledged the manliness of the hon. Member, who had openly avowed what his intentions were. It was not his wish to say much on the present subject, in the then thin state of the House, particularly after what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the latter part of whose speech he entirely concurred. It was the duty of that House, when a measure was brought down from the other branch of the Legislature, to consider its enactments, not with reference to the particular parties by whom they had been proposed, but with reference to their own merits. As the present, however, was not the proper time for discussing the nature of the amendments which had been added to the Bill, he should not say another word on the subject. But he begged leave to tell the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he must
 1114 1115
 Dr. Bowring  felt some surprise that the declaration of the hon. Member for Mayo had been received with such coldness and indifference by the House. That declaration, be it remembered, was the latest testimony to the state of the public mind in Ireland; and that public mind would soon find abundant echoes in this country, unless Ireland were really and truly raised to the equality she had a right to occupy. When the question of a Repeal of the Union was last debated, none but Irish Members were willing to advocate it; but if the present system were persisted in, if a perpetual injustice towards Ireland were perpetrated, the question of the Repeal of the Union would not be left alone to Irish representatives, for many of the representatives of England and Scotland would unite in demanding the repeal, unless equal justice were obtained for Ireland. He did not understand what was meant by the word  collision.
 Mr. Hume  moved, pursuant to notice, for leave to bring in a Bill to authorise the rate-payers in counties to choose representatives to form a county revenue board for the assessment, levying, and administration of the county rates.
 Mr. Hume  continued, — the declaration of his hon. Friend amounted to this— that the Lords never would do what he
 1095 1096 1097 1098
 Mr. Hume  admitted, that he had often stood at the bar of the House of Lords and heard with astonishment the sentiments which were uttered in that House. That was the only observation made by his hon. Friend in which he at all concurred. His hon. Friend had talked of the insurmountable obstacles which the House of Lords presented to the success of measures brought forward by his Majesty's Ministers; and as he appeared to speak with some authority on the subject, there was no hope that the House of Peers ever would do justice to Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Sir, I rise to answer, not merely the statements and arguments, but the insinuations which, not very fairly, have been thrown out by the right hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down. A more unmanly, a more disingenuous, a more unjustifiable attack I never heard made upon a public man than that which the right hon. and learned Gentleman has, by implication at least, made upon my noble Friend. Nothing can be more unjustifiable than the mode which the right hon. and learned Gentleman has adopted of ascribing motives, and then suggesting that they are the motives of my noble Friend and of his Majesty's Government. But such is the course which the right hon. and learned Gentleman and his Friends have long uniformly pursued. In order to avoid discussing the real merits of the question, the right hon. and learned Gentleman endeavoured to connect the expressions in a letter written by an hon. and learned Gentleman—who, if he were present, would, no doubt, have been able to answer for himself—with the opinions which he supposes are entertained by my noble Friend. Sir, this is only a part of that miserable, that unmanly system which our opponents.
 1109 Shaw: 1110 1111 1112
 Mr. Wyse  said, that the Bill as originally introduced had reference to rights which belonged to Irishmen as free subjects, and if by any act of theirs they implied they were not entitled to them, they
 1116
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien , perceiving that the Irish Municipal Bill was sent down from another place, with certain additions and alterations of a very peculiar nature appended to it, was desirous of inquiring of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, what line of proceeding he would adopt on it. For himself as an Irishman, he would say, that he considered the alterations which the Bill had undergone a direct insult to his country; and if no other hon. Member better calculated for bringing the subject before the House would do so, he would feel it an imperative duty, on its introduction, to move that it be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  lived in one of the most Protestant parts of Ireland, and was sure that the Protestants were not adverse to the enjoyment, on the part of the people of Ireland, of political rights. He expressed his satisfaction at the general tone of the noble Lord's (Russell's) speech, but there was one part of it which had filled him with dismay. He was sorry to have heard the noble Lord hint at the possibility of a compromise, by a limitation of the franchise, or by a reduction of the number of corporate towns in Ireland. For his part, he rejoiced that the Bill had been sent back in its present shape, which put all compromise out of the question. The Legislature would in vain endeavour to give satisfaction to Ireland by compromising the rights of that country, for Ireland would be content with nothing less than perfect equality with England. The letter of a learned gentleman had been alluded to, and in his absence he, though often dissenting from the views of that Gentleman, felt called on to say, that with the sentiments expressed in that letter he cordially concurred. He was not anxious for a Repeal of the Union, but if
 1117
 Sir James Graham  had heard with great satisfaction the commencement of the speech of his noble Friend. His noble Friend had admitted most distinctly that the present crisis of affairs was somewhat dangerous; and feeling that to be the case, he certainly thought the advice of his noble Friend at once prudent and statesmanlike—that the House should proceed with calmness and deliberation, and not rush prematurely and precipitately into a discussion involving matters of the greatest delicacy, and important to the character, the constitutional rights, and privileges of both branches of the Legislature. That advice, he repeated, he considered prudent, statesmanlike, and worthy of his noble Friend; but he was bound at the same time to declare, if he had heard with satisfaction the commencement of the speech in which that advice was tendered, he had listened to the conclusion of his noble Friend's address with feelings of a very different character. If, therefore, the discussion had already proceeded further than was consistent with the recommendation contained in the beginning of his noble Friend's speech, he was bound to say the inducement which led to it had been furnished by his noble Friend himself, The noble Lord, he believed, ad-
 1099 1100 Cheers from Mr. Evelyn Denison. 1101 1102 Cheers. 1103
 Viscount Clements : I feel it impossible to hear the interests of the Irish people alluded to as they have been without protesting in the strongest manner against it. The blood boils in my Irish veins when I hear the disposition to do the people of Ireland justice called concession. Concession! Are the Municipal Corporations of England to be reformed for the good of the people of England, and is the reform of the Municipal Corporations of Ireland, for the good of the people of Ireland, to be called a concession? I repeat, that it is impossible for me to listen to such language without protesting in the strongest manner against the doctrine which it involves, Sir, I much fear that
 1104
 Mr. O'Connell  (who after having been ejected from Dublin by an Election Committee, had been returned for Kilkenny, and had this evening taken his seat,) presented a petition from certain electors of the city of Dublin, against the sitting Members for that city. He conceived the petition to come within the statute; but if any doubt arose upon the subject, he should be content that it should be printed, and that the opinion of the House should be taken upon it on the first day of sitting after the recess. He had looked carefully into all the authorities upon the point, and entertained no doubt whatever that the petition—the per sons by whom it was subscribed not having been parties in any way to the former petition—came within the statute, and, consequently, that it ought to be received.
 Sir George Clerk  understood, that this was a petition in the nature of an election petition. It was a petition complaining of an undue return, declaring that persons pronounced, by a Committee constituted according to the provisions of the Grenville Act, to have been duly returned, were not duly returned. If it were an election petition, he apprehended that no question could arise as to whether it should be presented or whether it should be allowed to be on the table. He did not know what they could gain by postponing the discussion. They could not
 1123
 Mr. O'Connell  said, there was no argument whatever in the assertion that this petition could not be received because it was an election petition. Undoubtedly the question was, whether it could be received, and that question he was quite content should be deliberately discussed and decided. He did not rise to oppose the motion that the petition be now laid on the table and printed, and the debate adjourned till the first day after the recess. His object in rising was to reply to some of the observations that had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) opposite. He was prepared to meet the right hon. Baronet foot to foot. Here was a case where it was impossible to pre sent a petition sooner. Here, too, was a case which, in other respects, differed essentially from those to which the right hon. Baronet had referred. In this instance the candidates—the Gentlemen who now sat for the city of Dublin—were not parties to the original election petition; and the words of the statute were special, that the decision of a Committee appointed under the Grenville Act should not be final unless it were a decision between the par ties. He prayed the House to see what a monstrous thing it was to resist the course he proposed to take. The Report of the Dublin Election Committee, presented on Monday last, contained the following resotion:—"The Committee feel it to be their duty especially to report to the House that eight persons, viz., Matthew Nadden, George Osborn, Patrick Finucane, Oliver Richards, John Forsyth, Charles Dempsey, James Baldwin, and Andrew Hutchinson, were struck off the poll as having voted under a corrupt expectation, and having subsequently received money; but the Committee are unanimously of opinion that there is no evidence that Messrs. West and Hamilton, for whom they voted, were either directly or in directly implicated in such corrupt practices." [ Hear. 1124 1125
 Mr. O'Connell : Will the right hon. Baronet allow me to interrupt him for one moment? A little explanation may, per haps, prevent further discussion at this time. I could not present this petition sooner than to-day. It was not prepared till within the last few days, and till to-day I have not been competent to present it. It was only on Monday last that the Re port of the Committee was made. I do not apply for time; I do not want it. I would have given notice of my intention to present the petition if the House had sat to-morrow, or even on Monday. But as this is the last day on which the House sits for nearly a fortnight, and as the day on which it next sits will be the last on which such a petition as the present could be received, I thought it better to lay it upon the Table this evening, in order that it might be printed prior to its being discussed when we re-assemble after the recess. I do not wish it to be prematurely discussed now. Having intimated to the House that such a petition is in existence. I should even be content to withdraw it for the present. But whenever it is discussed, I shall be perfectly prepared to show that it comes within the statute, that none of the cases alluded to by the right hon. Baronet apply to it, and that gross injustice will be done if it be not received and its prayer attended to.
 Dr. Lushington  did not rise to pronounce any opinion whether the petition ought to be received or not; but he had heard quite enough in the course of the present debate to satisfy his mind that it was a question of great importance, and ought not to be disposed of by the House without mature consideration. Whether this petition ought to be received or not depended upon the true construction of the Grenville Act, as stated by his right hon. Friend, upon reference also to that Act of Parliament which his right hon. Friend introduced, and upon reference to the whole train of decided cases during the last sixty-six years. Now, he must be a very bold Member of Parliament, and very regardless of the importance of this decision, who would rashly pronounce an opinion either one way or the other, with out an opportunity of considering what was the force of those enactments, and what the applicability of those decisions by which it was said this case ought to be ruled. He must be prepared to bear in mind not merely the whole of the Grenville Act, and the whole of the particulars of that important statute to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred, but he must be prepared also, without any notice of this petition, without any previous opportunity of informing his mind upon the subject, or, of comparing this case with the Monaghan or any other case, to come to a conclusion upon a most important question involving the validity of the seats of two Members of that House. In his judgment, he who pronounced an opinion in any way upon this case, without applying himself to the points he had mentioned, and without any consideration whatever beyond what the present debate afforded him to give to the question, did injustice to the parties. He was decidedly of that opinion, because he would venture to say perhaps he might make an exception in favour of the right hon. Gentleman, the
 1129 1130 "Hear, hear" from Mr. Wynn.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not oppose the adjournment of the question till Monday, the 30th. But he begged it to be under stood that he offered the petition as a matter of right.
 Mr. Halves  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, with regard to the Timber Duties There were many persons interested in the Timber Trade, who were anxious to know what course his Majesty's Government in tended to take in reference to the duties,
 1131
 Colonel Perceval  thought it would be better if in future the House should rise for a longer period at Easter, as the vacation was not now sufficiently long to enable them to return from the country.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  did not mean to object to the arrangement of the noble Lord, though he feared it would not be found suitable. A resolution for giving precedence to orders of the day on all days would have injurious effects, in consequence of the custom that had lately arisen of making motions as amendments to orders of the day.
 Lord John Russell  brought up the third report of Commissioners to inquire into the established Church. The noble Lord said, having presented the Report, he should now more for leave to bring in a Bill to carry part of the report into effect, to which he hoped there would be no objection. It was desirable that the Bill should be brought in and printed before the holy-
 1134
 Lord John Russell  regretted, that there was not a fuller House for the discussion of so important a subject as that which the hon. Member for Bridport had brought be fore the House; for he (Lord J. Russell) was most desirous to ascertain what were the sentiments of the House on the proposition then before it, which would make a very considerable alteration in the pro visions of the Reform Bill. His own impression was, that the object which the hon. Member for Bridport wished to accomplish vas a very desirable one. Before this Bill was brought into Parliament, he had stated to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, that it was his opinion that there ought to be a permanent Court of Revi-
 1136 1137 1138
 Lord John Russell  thought the best course for taking the debate on the question which had been raised by the right hon. Gentleman, would be to agree to the adjournment. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that if this were not an election petition it should not be received at all; and, therefore, until that question was decided, it would not be proper that the petition should be laid on the table.
 Mr. Charles Buller  approved of the pro position to substitute a Court of Revision for the present system of the Revising Barristers, but he objected strongly to vesting the appointment of members of that court in the Speaker, not from any doubt that the eminent individual who now filled the chair would make a good selection, but because, in future, when a Speaker had filled the chair during a period of six or seven years his means of judging the fitness of the individuals appointed would be very much diminished. He thought, also, that it would ill contribute to the maintenance of the dignity and authority of the Chair if its occupant were liable at all times to be attacked and cavilled at for acts committed by him in the discharge of the trust reposed in him. He objected, also, to the proposed constitution of the Court of Appeal. He thought that this court might with more advantage be connected with the Election Committees of that House. His own proposition to the Committee which had been appointed to inquire, into this subject had been, that there should be a certain number of permanent chairmen of Election Committees, who would act in every respect as a Court of Appeal on the decision of the Revising Barristers, and by the same process intro duce uniformity in the decisions of Election Committees. The Court of Appeal pro posed by the clauses of the hon. Member for
 1140
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, it was not the intention of Government to introduce, during the present Session, a measure for changing the rate of duty. With regard to the other topic touched upon by the hon. Gentleman—the alteration in the mode of levying it, by introducing a system of measurement—the subject was under consideration, but it was not in his power to give any definite answer. In the arrangements that might be made, every attention would be paid to evading the necessity of measuring the deals twice, a plan which was materially injurious and unfair.
 Mr. Charles Villiers  did not disapprove of the nomination of the Speaker to appoint the functionaries for the revision of votes. He felt strongly the defects of the present system, and agreed that it was absolutely necessary to make some change. He was sorry, however, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, did not agree in the appointment of a Court of Revision. Much blame had been thrown on the barristers, but he thought unjustly, as most of their time was occupied in correcting the errors committed by those to whom the making out the lists was intrusted. He would prefer that the curate of the parish, or the parish clerk, should make out the lists in the first instance, instead of the overseer.
 Mr. Maclean  said, as his Majesty's Government were taking a considerable part in the contest in the northern parts of Spain, he wished to ask the noble Lord if instructions had been given to the British naval force on that coast to interfere with our commercial relations? He begged to know whether, supposing that British, or Russian, or American merchants wished to carry on a trade with the adherents of Don Carlos, instructions would be given to the cruisers under Lord John Hay to prohibit them.
 Mr. Maclean  said, that his question was not whether the instructions issued were in the spirit of that treaty, but whether they authorised interference with our commercial relations.
 Mr. Maclean  said, that after the recess he should move for a copy of the instructions issued to the British naval force on the coast of Spain.
 Mr. George F. Young  had paused much to consider whether it were right or not on his part in that stage of the proceedings to offer one word to the House upon the subject. He believed that in doing so he should he departing from that line of cautious prudence to which, perhaps it might be most wise in him strictly to ad here; but, at the same time, rather than run the risk of losing any portion of that character for candour and sincerity which, he trusted, he possessed as well within the walls of the House as out of it, he felt bound to state that, reserving for the pre sent all consideration of the propriety or impropriety of the views which influenced the Committee in restricting the commission as to the evidence to be taken on the question of bribery on the side of the un successful candidates—reserving himself upon that point, he felt, that he was bound in candour to say, that the Committee, having precluded the Commissioners from taking evidence upon a point upon which they conceived it was not competent to themselves to enter, came to their conclusion under the fullest impression that if there were any ground for the allegation of bribery against the Members who were seated in consequence of their Report, it would be open to the opposite party to try that question by presenting a petition to the House. He knew not whether he had acted properly or not in making that declaration. He had not had the opportunity of consulting more than one of his colleagues upon the subject, but he believed, that what he had stated was in strict accordance with the feelings and impressions of all the Members of the Committee. Under these circumstances he would not be a party to any attempt to exclude any parties who came before the House with an allegation of bribery against the sitting Members from giving such proof as it was in their power to offer.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he had given a great deal of consideration to this subject, and had in consequence prepared some clauses which he would propose to have refered to the committee in the way of instructions. The House must be aware of the many inconveniences which arose from the present mode of registration be fore the Revising Barristers. The great number of barristers upon whom at pre sent that duty devolved, tended rather to produce delay than to expedite the business. The most serious inconvenience, however, arose from the variety and in consistency of their decisions, which took away anything like certainty as to the state of the law upon this subject. He would mention one case in illustration of this. In the county of Middlesex the pos session of shares in the New River Company was held by the Revising Barrister to confer a right of voting. In the adjoining county of Hertford, the Revising Barrister held quite an opposite opinion. A third barrister was called in, that the point might be decided by a majority either one way or the other. The opinion of the third, however, was completely at variance with the opinion of the other two, so that no decision could be come to. The object he proposed to himself was, to establish something like certainty and uniformity in their decisions. That, he feared, was not attainable under the present sys tem. What he attempted to accomplish therefore, in the clauses which he should submit to the House to be referred to the committee, was the establishment of a Court of Revision and of Appeal. The greatest difficulty he felt was as to the quarter in which the appointment of the barristers in these new Courts was, to be lodged. He was not supposed to vest this patronage in the Judges, and his motive was, that barristers, if the Judges had the power of appointment, might be induced to look up too much to the Court, and thus be prevented from discharging their duties in that independent and unbiassed man-
 1135 1. l.
 Mr. Warburton  would prefer that the appointments should rest with one individual rather than with many, as there would be more responsibility. He should prefer that the Speaker had the appointment of the Revising Barristers, rather than the Lord Chancellor. He only wished at present that his proposition should be agreed to, pro formâ
 The Speaker  said, that the first intimation which he had of the intention of the hon. Member for Bridport to give to himself the appointment of these Judges, was from reading it in the printed resolutions. He must own that he read it with regret, and subsequent reflection had not diminished that regret. He thought it would in some degree combine the executive with the legislative power, to which latter he thought the functions of the House ought to be confined; still, if it was the pleasure of this House to fix this duty upon him, he would
 1141
 Mr. Hume  thought, although the debate were adjourned, that the petition might be printed.
 Mr. Bernal  observed, that as the H o u appeared to approve of the principle of his hon. Friend's motion, it would be better to abstain from discussing it until they went into Committee. Whether the appointments should rest with the Speaker or the Secretary for the Home Department would be a proper matter for the Committee to decide.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to call the attention of the House to the position in which the question now stood. If there were any difficulty upon the subject he thought it arose out of the circum stance of the petition being presented on the last day of the House sitting prior to the recess. If, instead of adjourning for ten days, the House were only about to adjourn till Monday next, there would, he apprehended, be no doubt as to the course that ought to be pursued, namely, to print the petition and take the discussion upon it on Monday. He agreed with his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham) that there was no subject on which it behoved the House to act with more jealous caution than on questions of this description. As some difficulty seemed to have arisen on the present occasion, what he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) wished to do was, to suggest that which appeared to him to be the fair and just mode of dealing with the subject, namely, to allow the petition to be upon the table, and to adjourn the discussion upon it until the first day of the House sitting after the recess. Meanwhile hon. Gentlemen would have an opportunity of consulting all the precedents upon the subject. Unprepared as he was at that moment, he, for one, should be very sorry to be called upon to pronounce any decision as to the ultimate course that the House ought to adopt. Of the contents of the petition he knew nothing. He was not aware of the existence of such a petition, and consequently was wholly unprepared for its presentation on that occasion. Therefore, if there were now any question before the House, he should move as an amendment that the debate be adjourned till the first day after the recess.
 Sir James Graham  did not wish to argue the question now, if the hon. and learned Member intended to withdraw the petition; but if it were proposed to suffer it to be upon the Table, it would be his duty to call the attention of the House to those circumstances which induced him to think that it ought not to be received. When the hon. and learned Member interrupted him, he was endeavouring to state to the House the grounds of the de-
 1121 1122
 Sir James Graham  thought that the House ought not to be called upon to discuss a question of so much importance without previous notice. The case, how ever, arising out of the present petition did not appear to him to be a new one. In the year 1834, the House determined upon a case in every respect strictly analogous with the present. In that case, on the very day on which the petition was presented, the House came to the decision that it could not be received—he alluded to the Monaghan case. In that case the original election petition was presented on the 5th of June. On the 2d of July the Committee was struck, and on the 30th of July the Committee reported that Colonel Westenra was not duly elected, and that Edward Lucas, Esq., was duly elected, and ought to have been returned. This was strictly analogous with the Re port of the Dublin Election Committee. The House was aware that there was an annual classification of petitions of this nature; and, in that classification, a distinction was always drawn between those petitions which related only to the return of the candidate petitioned against, and those in which the affirmation was not only that the return of the sitting Member was undue, but that another candidate had been elected, and ought to have been returned. Under the Grenville Act there had been five or six cases in which time had been asked, consequent upon the Report of the Committee; but in all those cases, without any exception, the Report of the Committee had simply been that the
 1120
 The Attorney-General  expressed his satisfaction at the manner in which this proposition had been received by the House. A plan almost similar to this had been pro posed to him some time ago by his noble
 1139 pro forma,
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that his question was, whether the British merchants were to be allowed to carry on their commerce by the British cruisers. He had not asked what the queen of Spain did, but what the king of England would do? He wished to know whether English subjects were to be left at liberty or not by the king of England's ships to carry on their trade?
 Mr. Williams Wynn  had always been of opinion that the system provided by the Reform Bill for the management of the register of votes would be productive of evil and inconvenience, and the result had answered his prediction. He had also always been favourable to the appointment of some court of appeal, the effect of which would be to afford some degree of certainty and uniformity to the decisions on the law of registration. For his own part, he was certainly desirous that greater competency and a higher degree of talent should be secured by a diminution in the number of barristers, and a consequent increase in the amount of emolument apportioned to each; for he was of opinion that that was the best economy which secured the highest order of talent in the market. He objected to the principle of the proposition which would vest the right of choosing the revising barristers in the Speaker. He thought that the Speaker could not be supposed to have a personal knowledge of the fitness of the individuals suggested to fill the offices, and that he must therefore be expected to rely in a great measure on the recommendation of the Attorney and Solicitor-General. He (Mr. Wynn) would much rather the right of appointment was vested in the Lord Chancellor, who would make the appointments in the face of Westminster Hall, and subject to the influence of public opinion. He would not object to joining other legal dignitaries to the Lord Chancellor for the purpose, as, for instance, the Lords Chief Justices of the King's Bench and Common Pleas, and the Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  considered that his Majesty's subjects had a right to be in formed by Government whether they had a right to trade with a particular port. [ "What port?"
 Mr. Williams Wynn  regretted, that the House should enter into any discussion upon the merits of this question. Questions of disputed election were by law referred to a Committee, the decision of which was directed to be final, and if he (Mr. Wynn) were right, if the House of Commons had been right for the sixty-six years which had elapsed since the first passing of the Grenville Act, if the House
 1126 1127 bona fide 1128
 Mr. Williams Wynn  wished to explain. All that he objected to was, that the House should take the slightest step which, might appear as if it admitted such a petition. Either it was an election petition, or it was not. If it were an election petition, it ought to be received without any question, and as a matter of right. On the other hand, if it were, as almost every body seemed to think it could not be, then it ought not to be received. Therefore, as the hon. and learned Gentleman would be equally within the fourteen days if he were to present the petition after the holidays, he (Mr. Wynn) would suggest that the debate should be adjourned till Monday the 30th inst.
 Lord Ebrington  moved "that it be an instruction to the Committee to insert a clause limiting the time for taking the poll to one day."
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that it was perfectly well known to merchants what restrictions were imposed by the Government of Spain on the commercial inter course of those ports with other nations.
 Viscount Palmerston : If the hon. Gentleman asked him what the British squadron would do, he would tell the hon. Member that he could not undertake to say what steps Lord John Hay might think proper to take. But, if any case occurred in which the naval force in the execution of its instructions acted, in what the hon.
 1132
 Viscount Palmerston  could only say, that the instructions given to the commander of the British squadron were in strict conformity with the engagements entered into by Government in the treaty of quadruple alliance.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to move the Order of the Day for resuming the debate on the subject of the petition which he had presented, which was in substance, though not in form, an election petition, from the constituency of Dublin. At the last election for that city two persons were returned as duly elected, A petition was presented from certain electors against that return, praying for a scrutiny, and the substitution of the defeated candidates. To that petition the defeated candidates were no parties—it was merely the petition of certain individuals, and on being presented it was referred to a Committee, who determined that the evidence should be taken in Dublin before a Commission appointed under the Act, and special rules were framed by the Committee to limit and confine the evidence to be given. The Committee, among the limitations which it imposed on the Commissioners, had pre scribed one, the 16th rule, in the words which he would read to the House: —"That no recriminatory evidence be admitted against the defeated candidates, except as far as regards the disqualification of their voters, they not being petitioners, nor any parties to the investigation before the Committee." Thus the petitioners had disclaimed the candidates as parties; they had called on the Committee to decide that they were not parties, and to draw the inevitable inference that no evidence could
 1143 1144 1145
 Mr. O'Connell  rose, amidst loud cries of "Chair," and "Order." He begged the Attorney - General's pardon. He wished to say but one word. [ Cries of "Spoke." "Chair, chair." Cheers.
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the 26th section of the Act; that section prevented the Committee from receiving any further evidence after they had made their Report. The mistake was in the Statute.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished, in justice to him self, to state, that he had not said one word of the motives of the Committee; but he did of their erroneous decisions, of which this was a very small sample. He could not, however, allow the hon. Member who had just sat down to fritter away the distinct admission he had made on a former night, or to qualify it now by any circumlocution. That hon. Member had stated distinctly, that he thought the Committee had come to an erroneous conclusion in having excluded evidence, and he came now down to the House, and with a great number of words sought to qualify that admission. He could not allow the hon. Member to do away with that admission, by attempting to make them believe that he really did not know what the effect of the limitation imposed upon the Commissioners might be. The hon. Member said, that when the Committee came to that resolution, they ought to have been informed that the resolution they then adopted could have the effect which it had been since proved to have. The House must be astonished when he told them, that the Committee decided that they would not hear counsel. One of the counsel for the petitioners, Mr. Harrison, spoke in terms to the Committee which were not the most flattering upon that decision. And the hon. Member now came down to say, "Why were we not informed that such would be the effect of our resolution he having prevented counsel from giving him that information. He did not arraign the hon. Member's motives, but he did his capacity. Again, upon the very occasion to which the hon. Member had just alluded, Mr. Austin was interrupted and prevented by the chairman or by what he might call his mouthpiece, the hon. Member for Tynemouth. Counsel was prevented from going into a statement by the opinion irregularly delivered by the hon. Member. He did not impugn motives—the human mind could not be well searched; and therefore it was that
 1152
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he intended to move that the hon. Member's (Mr. G. Price's) notice be expunged from the book.
 Mr. Grove Price  said, that he would shortly state to the House the course which it was his intention to pursue with reference to the notice of motion to which the
 1153 in tempore et in loco,
 Mr. O'Connell  begged also to assure the House, that he should not lose sight either of the object which he had in view. He knew of no technical objection to prevent the hon. Member from bringing forward his motion, and he (Mr. O'Connell) was ready to meet it, whatever opinions might be entertained upon the subject either at the camp of Don Carlos or by the  Morning Post. 1154
 Mr. Grove Price  explained. He had already stated, that he withdrew his motion on technical grounds. There was, how ever, another reason. If he had succeeded in his motion, for which there was but one precedent, and that a hasty one, the hon. Member for Kilkenny, or some other hon. Member, might have brought it forward on any supply night.
 Mr. Goulburn  replied, that a great number of the trees which had been cut down were not at all decayed.
 Mr. F. Baring  moved a grant of 64,450 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  took that opportunity of directing the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the havoc made in Kensington-gardens by the cutting down whole rows of ornamental timber, which had so long served the purpose of an agreeable shade, and to which the public had been accustomed to look with feelings approaching to respectful veneration. It was much to be regretted that those who had the power of doing such extensive mischief were not subjected to some better control before they applied their axe in so indiscriminate and destructive a manner. He very much regretted that persons who had it in their power to commit greater mischief than they could ever repair, were not placed under more efficient control.
 Sir Smith O'Brien  concurred in the
 1158
 Mr. Gladstone  called the attention of the hon. Member for Middlesex to the fact, that the charge was not for the repairs only, part of it was to provide accommodation for military prisoners.
 Mr. Goulburn : The argument of the hon. Member for Middlesex was, that because Mr. Hay was rendered independent, he was, therefore, unable to discharge his duty; but he had not heard that Mr. Hay ever violated his duty. Whether dependent, or independent, he would always discharge his duty honourably and faith fully, to the utmost extent of his ability. Mr. Hay accepted office on the express condition that he should receive the pension—the bestowing of which the hon. Member for Middlesex condemned; but it did not at all follow, that, having secured this point, he should retire from office for the purpose of enjoying it. If such had been his intention, he might have quitted office before his removal from it; but he preferred rendering his services to his country for the money he received.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that there was a certain class of officers of the State not politically connected with the Government for the time being, but whose situations were permanent, and who stayed in office during changes in the Administration; and to them the Superannuation Act granted retiring allowances when their services were closed. There was another class of officers politically connected with the Ministry by whom they were appointed; they came into office with them, and with them they went out; for these the House of Commons had thought proper to provide pensions, not suffering them to depend upon the will of their opponents, without which security, perhaps, few or no efficient men could be found ready to take such office. Of the former class was Mr. Hay, and he was surprised Mr. Hay did not apply for his superannuation if he wished to retire from office.
 The Lord Mayor  took this opportunity of replying to some observations which had been made when he was not in his place, finding fault with the conduct of the Magistrates of the city of London, in respect to the gaol of Newgate. He had to complain more especially of the course pursued by the Prison Inspectors, both in the manner they had proceeded in their inquiries, and in the Report they had made on the subject, and which he i declared had been got up entirely upon
 1167  &c., &c. 1168
 Lord John Russell  had no hesitation in concurring in the observation made by the Lord Mayor, that the gaol of Newgate was of that peculiar character which rendered it a matter of very great difficulty to enforce within it any system of prison discipline. With respect to the Prison Inspectors, he was inclined to believe that if they had fallen into any error on the subject it was not with the intention of misrepresenting the facts which had be come known to them.
 Lord J. Russell  said, it was true a portion of the expense was to adapt a building for the reception of soldiers, that they might not be kept longer in county gaols, which had been found very objectionable. Though the management of the institution was vested in Commissioners, they referred to the Secretary of State when questions arose, and the opinion he gave was generally acted upon by the Commissioners. The management of the Penitentiary was much more under the Secretary of State now than it was formerly.
 Lord John Russell  said, that with respect to the abolition of imprisonment for debt, nobody would rejoice more than he should, if he could say, that he believed it would speedily take place; but he was afraid there was not much chance of it. Judging from what he had heard else where, he was not very sanguine that there would be a speedy abolition of the existing system. With respect to the observations which the hon. Gentleman had made in reference to the state of the gaol of New gate, he begged to say, that the inspectors had bestowed great attention in the inspection of Newgate prison, to which he had especially directed their notice immediately after their appointment. The opinion expressed by the hon. Gentleman with respect to that prison, certainly did not differ from the character given of it in the report of the inspectors. At the same time, as there was one present who, in an especial manner, represented the Corporation of the City of London, it was but fair to say, that he had lately made inquiry of the Lord Mayor as to the state of Newgate, and his Lordship had in formed him (Lord John Russell) that a Committee had been appointed by the Corporation to investigate the subject. He ought also to state, that the gaoler and officers of the prison had given certain explanations to the inspectors, which they complained had not been fairly set forth by the inspectors in their Report, and which ought to be seen by the public before a final opinion was formed upon the subject. He, therefore, hoped hon. Gentlemen would suspend their judgments until they had seen the statement of the gaoler and officers, and also any report which the Committee appointed by the Corporation might make.
 Lord John Russell  was glad the hon. Gentleman had expressed his determination not to persevere in the motion of which he had given notice. It was his intention to have opposed that motion, as it was his intention, whenever it came on, to oppose the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny. It was certainly his opinion that, as it was the undoubted right of that House to entertain Bills to regulate the succession to the Throne, and to reform the representation of the people in Parliament, so, likewise, it was the undoubted right of that House to introduce and to favour, if they should think fit, Bills respecting what was called reform, but what he did not consider reform, in the constitution of the other branch of the Legislature. That was the -opinion he entertained—the opinion he should have been prepared to maintain and argue upon, if the hon. Member had gone on with his motion. He was very glad, as he had already stated, that the hon. Gentleman had listened to the advice of others—as he presumed, the advice of the right reverend Prelates of the Church. A motion, it would be recollected, had recently been made in that House, not for any reform with respect to the number of Prelates sitting in Parliament, but to remove Bishops from sitting in Parliament altogether. Now, as the Lords spiritual had as full a right, and he was determined to maintain that, right, to sit in the other House of Parliament, it certainly would have been a bad compliment to those right reverend Prelates if the House of Commons had shown itself ready to discuss and divide upon a motion with respect to the removal of the Bishops, while it could not entertain a motion with respect to the removal of the lay Lords. He thought it was very likely, therefore, that the right reverend Prelates, feeling somewhat hurt at the course in tended to be pursued by the hon. Member, had suggested to him the propriety of
 1155
 Lord John Russell  wished to know from the hon. Gentleman - opposite (Mr. G. Price), whether it was his intention to bring forward that evening his motion to have the notice of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, with reference to a change in the constitution of the House of Lords, expunged from the books; or whether he would wait, and bring it forward on some future day on going into a Committee of Supply?
 Lord John Russell  observed, that after
 1148
 Mr. Hawes  expressed a hope that as imprisonment for debt would soon be abolished, the country would be spared a considerable expense for the maintenance of prisons. The hon. Gentleman adverted to the Report which had recently been made to Government on the state of Newgate, and said, that it reflected the greatest discredit and disgrace on the magistrates of the city, to allow that prison to remain in so shameful a condition. Indeed, he knew not, even if those magistrates were to be removed, from their situations, the duties of which they so grossly neglected, that the punishment would be more than the offence deserved.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  wished to state, that Mr. Lack had served thirty years and had a right to retire. It was his duty to inquire how the business of his office might be best carried on. Mr. Lack, in consequence of an increase of duty, found it impossible to render those services at the Board of Trade, which he was anxious to render. It was thought proper therefore to unite the office held by Mr. Stephen with that held by Mr. Lack, which effected a saving to the public of 500 l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was surprised at the observation which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, because, from the official station he had held, he might have known the reason why there appeared to be an increased charge for the office of President of the Board of Trade. The Treasurership of the Navy which was held in connexion with it, had been removed, and the 2,000 l.
 Mr. Holland  remarked, that all the Members of the Committee had come into that House honourable men, and he trusted that no imputation could now be cast upon them for the decision which they had come to.
 Mr. Young  had not used the first person in speaking of the Committee. It was therefore an injustice to him to make him singly responsible for the acts of the Committee. What were his acts, were the acts of the Committee. And now he should say this—let the hon. Member for Kilkenny account to the House how it happened that he was so unfortunate in his Committee, composed as it was of all parties, that it should, when it gave a decision adverse to that hon. Member, be always unanimous in its decisions. Now, it was peculiarly un fortunate for that hon. Member, that if the Committee came to an erroneous conclusion, that those whose political sentiments were well known to coincide with those of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, should be unanimous in coming to such a conclusion. As to the "want of capacity," of which he with others was accused, he should not answer it, as he considered the observation unworthy of an answer, and he received it with the contempt that it de served.
 Mr. George Young  said, that it was with deep regret that he felt it his duty to offer himself to the attention of the House for a few moments in consequence of the severe illness of the Chairman of the Committee, which threw upon him the task of giving to the House a short explanation of the course which the Committee had pursued. After the opinion which had been so decidedly expressed from the Chair, and from so many other quarters of the House, as to the illegality of the decision of the Committee, it would ill become him to question the justness of that opinion, and he should therefore not attempt to do so; neither should he waste one word in vindication of the motives which had influenced the decision of the Committee, because the motives of those highly-honourable men with whom he was proud to have been associated on the Committee had not been impugned. His object in rising was, to offer A word of explanation, in order to elucidate some circumstances of which the House was not aware, it would be recollected that the Commission was sent to Dublin in the month of March, 1835, and the Committee, in granting that Commission,
 1150 1151
 Mr. Warburton  expressed it as his belief, that if it were once known that house-room was provided for the reception of works of art, donations of valuable pictures would be sent in to a very considerable extent, and thus a fine collection of pictures would be formed without its costing a shilling of the public money.
 The Speaker  remarked that the case had been substantially disposed of, and he therefore hoped that the discussion would not be pressed farther.
 The Speaker : As I collect, that it is the wish of the House that I should state the opinion which I have formed on the question raised by the petition now tendered, I shall do so. The object of the Grenville Act, and of the Acts which have followed it, was to take from the House the power of deciding on controverted re turns and elections, and to vest it in a Committee, to be chosen in the way pre scribed in the Act. Where a petition, complaining of an undue election, alleges that the unsuccessful candidates were the parties who ought to have been declared to have been duly elected, the intention of the Act clearly is, that the judgment of the Committee should be final. It is competent either to electors, to the unsuccessful candidates, or to both, to present petitions claiming the seats. But it is to be remembered, that the constituencies are the substantial and real parties. The parties petitioning only represent their interests. In all cases, therefore, where the seat is claimed, the Committee are bound to un-vestigate and decide all points by which the right to the seat can be effected. If a Committee should decide that either of the parties has been duly elected, having omitted to investigate and decide any point by which the right to the seat might have been effected, they must be held to have come to an imperfect and premature decision. In this case, voters were struck off the poll, because they had received pecuniary consideration for their votes, and certainly it does appear to have been the duty of the Committee to have ascertained whether the candidates were privy or par ties to the bribery, on account of which the votes of some of the electors who supported them were disallowed. Unless this point was fully sifted, I cannot imagine how the Committee could have come to the conclusion that the parties in whose favour such votes were given were duly elected. It is surprising that any question should be raised as to whether the Members declared to have been duly elected, were parties or privy to giving money, because the Committee has reported that there was no evidence to connect the now sitting Members with the bribery which was proved. Their Report on this point is expressed in the exact form of words that would have been used if the matter had been thoroughly sifted and examined. I therefore did feel
 1147
 Mr. Hume  bore testimony to the judicious nature of the alteration. If the right hon. Gentleman would only look at the trees in question next spring, his objection would, he was quite certain, be removed. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) wished to know on what ground 3,000 l. 1156
 Mr. Hume  said, he for one did not object to the Royal Academy having the room, provided it was not wanted for other purposes, but he could not but think that they had a monopoly which was injurious to the arts. They had the power of granting honours and excluding per sons from participating in them, who might be fairly entitled to do so.
 Mr. Hume  said, the hon. Baronets were mistaken if they thought that their views upon these subjects conveyed the moral opinion of the country. As to the Adelaide Gallery, that was a trade; whereas the British Museum was an exhibition maintained at public cost, and which, therefore, ought to be open to the public upon ail possible occasions. For the mechanic to spend his Sunday after noon with his family in the Museum appeared to him (Mr. Hume) a much better disposal of his time than if he were to resort to the public house or the gin pa lace. If the hon. Baronet would but consent to open his mind to the plain testimony of fact, he would find that the soldier and the mechanic of Paris derived a much higher elevation of mind, and a consequent higher tone of morality, from spending their Sunday afternoon in the Louvre than from besotting themselves in a cabaret.
 Mr. Hume  had not intended to affront the hon. Baronet, but he was certainly indisposed to be dictated to by the hon. Baronet, however much the hon. Baronet might wish to force every body to be of his way of thinking. As to the hon. Baronet's charging him with obstinacy, it was quite a question whether it was his obstinacy or the right hon. Baronet's dullness which had most to do in the matter.
 Mr. Hume  said, that properly there should be no more money voted for the Museum until a distinct promise was made by the Government that the Museum should be placed under such improved regulations as would enable the whole public to derive advantage from it. At present the Museum was closed precisely at the hour when mechanics and others might have the chance, if it were left open, of going over it; and on the precise days, holidays, when the classes he spoke of were in a situation to devote the whole day to an examination of the Museum, on those precise days was the Museum closed. The Museum was now opened at ten and closed at four; but he could see no reason why these hours should not be altered so as to enable all classes to derive every possible advantage from an institution which they were called upon to sup port at so heavy an expense.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had frequently questioned the propriety of keeping up this establishment, which he considered to have completely failed in its object. He was opposed to the principal of the establishment, and thought they ought not to sanction any new disbursement for its repairs. The management of the institution was in the hands of Commissioners, who were in reality irresponsible. The place ought to be under the direction of the Secretary of State.
 Mr. Hume : The hon. Member for New ark complained of the dismissal of Mr. Hay. The ground-work of the dismissal of this gentleman was laid by the Government of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tarn worth, who gave him the power of retiring whenever he pleased; which was as much as to say, "We will provide for our own friend." Having been made independent by the Government who appointed him, it was highly proper that the
 1166
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  begged to observe, as a trustee of the British Museum, that he entirely concurred with all that had fallen from his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) on the subject. He trusted that arrangements would be made to allow that, national institution to be opened in the holidays.
 Mr. R. Colborne  corroborated the statement of the hon. Member for Bridport, as to the effect of a national gallery being
 1162 l.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  objected to the course proposed, as lending the sanction of the House and the law to an obvious injustice. There was a great difference between the Canterbury and Monaghan cases, which had been relied on as authorities and the present. In both the former the petitioners never attempted to prove a case of bribery against the sitting Members, nor had they ever asked the Committee to receive evidence on such a point. It would be contrary to every principle of justice if the parties could keep in their pockets the best part of their case, and take the opinion of the Committee upon the least important part of it. The present case, therefore differed entirely from those alluded to by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Montgomeryshire. What he should propose was, that the House should resolve to give to the electors of Dublin fourteen days to present a petition, which, in his opinion, was the course pointed out by the forty-second section of the Reform Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that they did nothing for the Royal Academy but give them Room for their Exhibitions. Except the occupation of the rooms at Somerset-House, they had no exclusive privileges; and be it recollected, that they were in the occupation of the rooms at the present moment. Suppose the amendment of the hon. Gentleman were adopted, what would be its effect? It would not take away from the Royal Academy the rooms they had; on the contrary, it would leave them in undisturbed possession of them. They were held under the grant of the Crown. The only question was, whether it was most for the public convenience that the Royal Academy should have a place of exhibition at Charing-cross or at Somerset House. Now the Government thought it better to wholly appropriate Somerset-house to the business of Government, and it appeared to him to be more convenient to bring the works of art together, so that the public might have the opportunity of comparing readily the works of British art with the great productions of the ancient artists. Having seen the way in which the Royal Academy administered their funds, he must say, with reference to this question, that he believed it would be wrong in the House to withhold from the arts the very small encouragement which in this country was afforded them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that he did not intend that this sum should be appropriated till the recommendations of the Commissioners were received. He thought that the best course would be, to leave the wishes of the public on subjects of intellectual improvement to develope themselves, and in support of that opinion he referred to the steps recently taken in several provincial towns with the view of establishing institutions for the intellectual culture of the people. The case of the British Museum was, however, an exception to all rules of that description—it was a national museum, and he thought that at least one national museum ought to be maintained at the general cost of the nation. In giving literary and scientific institutions at the public charge to provincial places, there was danger that the wants and wishes of the people would be supplied with more than they required, and, therefore, he recommended that there should be a limitation to the metro polis of grants of that nature. He de sired further to state, that he intended to lay before the House a small supple-
 1159
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he certainly thought that it was very desirable to make some changes in the pre sent regulations of the Museum, with reference to the extension of the hours of exhibition, holidays,  &c.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware that any circumstance had arisen that could justify the supposition that Buckingham Palace was not to be used as the King's residence. At present it required one or two further alterations; but he had the satisfaction of being able to say that it would not be necessary to apply for any more grants for the completion of it. With respect to Marlborough house his hon. Friend laboured under some misapprehension. That building was undoubtedly the jointure-house of the Queen, but it did not become the property of her Majesty until a certain event took place, which he was sure the House and the country would not anticipate. In the mean time, that building was not of more expense to the public than the mere charge for repairing the roof and other parts of it, which they were bound to keep in repair.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if future generations were to be gratified by the existence of any trees at all in Kensington-gardens, it was indispensably necessary that the decayed and sickly trees should be cut down.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he had always felt that it was most expedient and wise that the British Museum should be open during the holidays, and chiefly, because it enabled the junior branches of families, who were
 1157
 Mr. Wakley  said, that he should not have made a single complaint on the subject if the public participated in the ad vantages of the Zoological Gardens on Sundays. Each proprietor had the right of admission for himself, and also the liberty of introducing; two friends; these persons were generally of the higher orders, and the great bulk of the public, and more especially the poorer classes, were excluded.
 Mr. Wakley  could not help complaining that the British Museum was shut up in holiday time, when many of the labouring classes were able and anxious to visit it. It had been shut during the whole of the Whitsuntide week. He also wished to direct the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the state of the Re gent's-park on Sundays. He did not object to the Zoological Gardens; on the contrary, he thought that they were of great advantage to the public; but he could not help complaining of the great collection of carriages there on a Sunday; indeed, to such an extent that it became a nuisance. [Hear, hear! from Sir  Andrew Agnew.
 Mr. Wakley  saw no reason why the Museum should not be opened on Sundays.
 Mr. William E. Gladstone  said, he wished on that occasion to notice the dismissal of Mr. Hay, and the reduction of an office which he considered equivalent in importance and efficiency to an Under Secretaryship. Unpopular as it might be to find fault with any economical change, he did not hesitate to express his regret at that reduction; because he was convinced that if the business to be done were
 1164 The Globe l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Ewart  submitted to the consideration of the Committee the propriety of not allowing the Royal Academy to occupy the wing of the new National Gallery. He objected to one-third of the building being devoted to the Royal Academy, and the reason he did so was, be cause it was a private institution, except
 1161
 Sir Andrew Agnew  protested against such a desecration of the Sabbath.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  protested against making the attendants of the British Museum work on Sundays against their consciences, and trusted that such a proposition as that just made by the hon. Gentleman would never receive the sanction of the House. He hoped also that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would re-consider the opinion which he had that night expressed with respect to visiting the Zoological Gardens on Sundays, and which he (Sir Andrew Agnew) had heard with surprise. Such an opinion was not in conformity with the religious feeling of the great body of the people.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  did not think that it was a proper use of the Sabbath to visit the Zoological Gardens on that day. On the contrary, he considered it a desecration of the Sabbath, and that the Zoological Gardens as well as all other places of amusement for the rich should be closed on that day.
 Sir George Grey  said, Mr. Hay was requested to retire because the duty could
 1165 l.
 The Attorney-General  said, that his opinion was of comparatively slight value, but the question was one on which the Speaker's immediate predecessor had be stowed much consideration, and he believed it had received the serious attention of the present Speaker. He felt anxious that the opinion he had pronounced should be contradicted or corroborated
 1146
 The Attorney-General  thought, that this petition could not be received, it being contrary to the statutes. He felt it his duty most attentively to consider the case, and he must acknowledge that it was with very great reluctance he had at length arrived at this conclusion.
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to present a petition of a peculiar nature. It had come to him, accompanied with a letter through the Post-Office, and he had no doubt of the genuineness of the document. The petition was an appeal to the House of Commons for protection, and was signed by Quoffee Abberrapoo or (King Aggry) on
 1142
 Sir Thomas Fremantle : There was nothing on the face of these accounts to show that an item was charged here which did not appear in the Estimates of the last year. He was, however, satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  thought, that the public had lost an efficient officer in Mr. Hay, and had to sustain an increased charge; there had been a saving in the Colonial Department to the amount of 400 l., l.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  said, however he might subject himself to the taunts of a portion of the House, he would add his protest to that of the hon. Baronet against any encouragement being given by the
 1160
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  believed he was quite as open to conviction as the hon. Member, whose character in the House was precisely that of the extremest obstinacy, and an indisposition to open his mind to the opinions of others.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  felt, after what had been said by the Speaker, in which he concurred, the difficulty of adding any thing on the subject before them, yet he could not avoid saying a word or two respecting it. He felt fully the inconvenience of altering the decision of the Committee, and he also felt the inconvenience of allowing an illegal decision to remain. In his opinion, the decision of the Committee was a most mistaken one as regarded one part of the case before them, in refusing to receive evidence criminatory of one party before they decided on their Report as to whether the petitioners were duly elected. That course was most certainly wrong, but the great difficulty now was, what could be done to remedy the error? Under all the circumstances he thought it would be better not to interfere with the decision as it stood.
 Mr. Grove Price  observed, that this debate had been as creditable to the House as its warmest friends could wish, for it proved, that when a question of humanity was brought forward, there was no difference of opinion among Englishmen of all parties, but all were ready to support it. The House and the country owed a deep debt of gratitude to the hon. Member for Finsbury for bringing this motion forward, and whatever might be the fate of it, the hon. Member ought and would feel happy in having brought it forward.
 Dr. Lushington  did not intend to have spoken but for the speech of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury, from every part of which he entirely dissented. He was certainly of opinion that if there was one mode by which more surely than by another the object they had in view would be defeated, it was that proposed by the hon. Member. The interference of that House would be calculated especially to excite the jealousy of a nation like the French; it would be an unjustifiable interference with them on points which, according to the law of nations, belonged exclusively to the sovereign power to decide and determine. Were this motion acceded to, there would be no end to the occasions on which this House would be called upon to say to a foreign government, in respect of any political offenders, "We, the British nation, think you have punished these individuals long enough, and we, therefore, call upon you to exercise that clemency, which, if it is to be exercised at all, ought to be exercised from the sovereign power alone." He could not say that he thought the motion would be productive of any good, or that it would tend, in the slightest degree, to accelerate the release of these unfortunate persons; on the contrary, he thought this was of all others the very period when the French Government would be afraid to exercise their own discretion and free will, because of this interference on the part of the British nation. He could not help concurring in what fell from the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. What would be the feeling ex cited in that House by an attempt, on the part of a foreign government, to interfere in the administration of justice in this country? He (Dr. Lushington) for one would say, that such an interference should never for one moment influence his mind. Having said this, however, on the subject of the form of the motion, he felt it due to himself to say, that no person could feel more strongly than he did for the situation of the prisoners. He had throughout his life been attached to the principle of rendering punishment certain, but not severe, as the only sure mode of rendering it efficacious everywhere. He hoped the declaration he was about to make would not be considered inconsistent with this line of conduct. He would acknowledge that he was not prepared to create this precedent in favour of individuals who had fallen a
 1206
 Mr. O'Brien  begged to put it to the noble Lord, whether it was consistent with a proper respect for the feelings of the people of Ireland, that so important a question as that to which he alluded should be postponed.
 Mr. Wyse  said, he felt deeply the necessity for some such Bill as the present. The Medical Charities in Ireland were in a most anomalous condition. The first business of the Legislature was to consoli-
 1209
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the Government would be happy to avail itself of any hints which might be contained in the Bill pro posed by his hon. Friend for the regulation of Medical Charities in Ireland. He should therefore offer no opposition to its being brought in; at the same time not pledging himself that he would not present to the House a rival measure, which he had for some time been contemplating. He could not sit down without saying, that whoever should have to investigate this subject would owe a debt of gratitude to Dr. Freeman.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, he should offer no opposition to the Return. At the same time he must observe, that while the law remained as it did, the Commissioners of Customs had a duty to perform for which they could not be blamed.
 Captain Berkeley  coincided with what had been said with respect to the class of officers below a certain rank, and it was the same in the navy as in the army. Mid shipmen, not boys, but young men of six and-twenty and eight-and-twenty years of age, and who had served for ten years, if they obtained a ship would be only entitled to the paltry sum of 50 1.
 Captain Dundas  said, that seventy-five naval officers previously alluded to were appointed in 1802, and were now supporting themselves on 240 l.
 Colonel Thompson  begged, as a man who had passed a considerable portion of his life amongst his Mahometan fellow citizens, to express an earnest and sincere hope that the time was not distant when we should get rid of the stigma of having in that House placed any man under political disabilities on account of his religious
 1234
 Mr. O'Connell  said: Yes; injustice had its reward—iniquity had its reward—there was a blessing attending the imposition of the burthens of the State on the shoulders of the Jews, but there was no blessing at tending the doing them justice. He denied that hon. Gentlemen opposite who upheld the principle of persecution, were actuated by Christian principles, and he wished to know by what right they dared to assume to themselves, as legislators, the principle of infallibility? He declared that the debate was disgraceful to the country. He could not refrain from the expression of his abhorrence of the odious and unchristian avowals of the opposers of this Bill. The hon. Baronet who led that opposition had been driven from one position to another, and, failing in exciting the bad passions of hon. Members against the
 1235 Hear.
 Mr. O'Connell :—No, no.
 Captain Boldero , in support of the motion, instanced the case of an officer who had been in sixteen general actions, and received the thanks of three Sovereigns, but received neither rank nor emolument in the British service. Had he been in any other service he would have obtained the highest promotion. The gallant Member maintained that in every department of the civil service, which was not so laborious or hazardous as the naval or military, promotion and compensation were infinitely superior.
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  seconded the motion. He could not understand on what ground any person, possessed of the common feelings of humanity, could op pose the motion.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that it appeared to him that the nation already suffered considerable inconvenience from the introduction of too many classes of citizens into its legislation. Other States had similarly suffered. Rome itself at length fell a victim to the extension of the rights and privileges of citizenship to the multitudes she ruled over, He had as great a respect
 1236
 Lord John Russell : I wish to take this opportunity of calling the attention of the House to a matter connect ed with the progress of business. A debate is to take place to-morrow on the Irish Church Bill, which I understand, according to the general impression of the House, will last beyond one night. In that event, I shall not propose the consideration of the Municipal Corporation Act Amendment Bill on Thursday. I shall not be able to do so either on Friday or Monday next, and shall therefore beg to postpone it for a week. On Friday my right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, will, in pursuance of his notice, propose the question of the stamp-duties; and on Monday I mean to bring forward the question of the registration of marriages.
 Lord John Russell , though he sympathised deeply with the individuals in question, and earnestly wished to be of service to them, he should have felt quite satisfied to let the House go to a vote on this motion, on the ground stated by his noble Friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. But his motive for rising at present was to make one or two observations, in addition to the statement of his strong conviction that it was impossible for us to interfere with propriety in the internal affairs of another nation. Before making those observations, however, he would say, that he trusted the Government of France would consider this question in the manner in which his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury desired, and in which the House appeared to coincide with him. Being contented with the statement of his noble Friend, he should not have risen to say a single word, had not the hon. Member for Drogheda thrown out certain reflec-
 1201 1202 1203
 Mr. Bannerman : In accordance with the notice which I have given, I rise to call the attention of the House to the situation in which many officers of various ranks are now placed, belonging both to his Majesty's land and sea forces, whose length of service seems to entitle them to the consideration of Parliament and the country. Sir, it is not my intention to occupy the time of the House by bringing under its consideration the cases of individual hardship, which many most deserving officers in both ser-
 1211 dream 1212 1213 l., l. s. d., l. s. d.; 1214 l. l. l. 1215 1216 "You have stated, that owing to the system of promotion in the ordnance service, the colonels do not get the higher ranks till they obtain an advanced age. Can you state, out of the nine colonels of artillery, how many there are above seventy years of age?—I should say, that of the colonels of the artillery there are six at present above seventy years of age, and I know some upwards of eighty; I know one that is eighty-four, and another of the engineers that is eighty-two. In the lower ranks, the average time before an officer of artillery attains the rank of first captain, is forty years of age. "If the artillery were to be called into active service, would the captains of those companies enumerated by you be able to go into the service with them, or would you have to appoint fresh officers?—I conceive the mischief to the artillery corps is so great, from the slowness of the promotion, and from the want of energy which that slowness generates, that I conceive, when the artillery officer has obtained his commission, he is indifferent and careless in qualifying himself further for his profession. During the Peninsular war, we
 1217 "The greater part are unfit for the active service of the profession when they have arrived at that rank which would have enabled them to assume the relative command with officers of the line. I have another instance, in the case of Sir George Wood, who commanded the artillery at the battle of Waterloo, who was a major of artillery, and who was the oldest officer at the battle of Waterloo. "What was the rank of the officer in the French artillery in the corresponding command?—The corresponding rank in the French service would have been lieutenant general. "What was the corresponding rank with that of Sir Alexander Dickson?—Lieutenant general." Per mare, per terram. 1218 l.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that if the oath was read, they would find that it was essential to the character of a legislator of that House that he should be a Christian.
 Colonel Perceval  did not think it necessary to justify the speech of his right hon. Friends, or to defend them from the coarse attacks with which the hon. Member for Kilkenny took every opportunity of assailing them, and vilifying their motives. They, and he also, had understood the scope of the motion to be, that henceforth Jews, infidels, Mahometans, and heretics, would be welcome there! Thus, it was now openly and shamelessly avowed, that it is indifferent whether the Christian religion be any longer characteristic of this House—whether it is or is not to be received as part and parcel of the law of the land. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had declared, that there was no way of preventing heretics entering that House; but he insisted there was, for when a new Member presented himself at the Table, he must declare himself a Christian.
 Mr. Charles Wood  was understood to say, that the Admiralty would be glad, and, were always glad, to entertain the claims of old meritorious officers; but they had a duty to perform to the public, which frequently rendered it difficult for them to accede to every application. There could not be so much promotion in times of peace
 1227
 Mr. Robinson  bore testimony to the general disposition on the part of all public officers connected with the collection of the revenue, to afford every convenience in. their power. At the same time he must say, he fully agreed in what had been stated by the hon. Member who made this motion, as to the great injury sustained by commerce from the delay occasioned by the most trifling amendment required in Ships' Reports. He imputed no blame to any one; he hoped, however, the subject would gain the attention of Government.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he should always support any proposition for doing away with any species of civil disability on ac count of religious opinions. The hon. Baronet had alluded to the paucity of petitions in favour of this motion, but the House had already passed the principle of the Bill by a numerous majority, and therefore there was no need of such an expression of national opinion at the pre sent. If, however, the people of England thought (as the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, alleged) that there was any security to the Christian religion in pre serving this miserable remnant of a barbarous code, why did they not evince their conviction by petitions against the Bill? He believed that the Christian religion had never derived any support from that intolerant statute which it was proposed to repeal; but, on the contrary, it had suffered the greatest disgrace and injury in every country where it had been adopted.
 Mr. Robinson  presented a petition adopted at a public meeting, and most numerously and respectably signed by the merchants, traders, and inhabitants of the city of Worcester, which he had the honour to represent, praying that a full measure of corporate reform might be given to the people of Ireland. The meeting at which the petition had been adopted was held only two days ago, and he would venture to say, that among the great numbers assembled at it, there was not a dissentient voice on the necessity of granting to the people of Ireland a mea sure of corporate reform similar to that given to Scotland and England. He need scarcely say, that he fully concurred in the prayer of the petitioners. He was not aware what the intention of his Majesty's Ministers would be when this subject was brought before the House; but
 1190
 Sir Henry Hardinge  regretted to have heard the observations that had fallen from the Secretary at War. Nothing could be more disheartening to both ser vices, than to hear a declaration from the Government that no brevet promotion was to take place this year. The reduction in the number of general officers, since the diminution of brevets, had become considerable. They had been reduced from 550 to 360, thus making a diminution of 190 general officers since the war. He thought that this reduction was a reason why promotion should be given to the officers of the army. The pay of the officers of the army was lower than that of those engaged in the civil service, and that was a reason why the encouragement of promotion should be held out to them. The House would recollect, that at the conclusion of the war a considerable number of officers were placed on half-pay.
 1222 l. l.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  contended, that it was the duty of the Secretary at War to propose an augmentation of this description, when he had ascertained it to be the pleasure of his Majesty that it should take place. If it was his Majesty's pleasure, it was then the business of the Secretary at War to propose it to the House. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman proceeded to explain the constitutional grounds on which that augmentation had been delayed at the period referred to by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  rose to support the motion. As the hon. Gentleman who had brought the subject under the notice of the House had so fully explained the hardship inflicted on the officers of the
 1219 l. l. l. l. l 1220
 Mr. Plumptre  was glad the hon. Member for Oxford had taken his stand against this Bill, and believed the great body of the people would be sorry that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought it necessary to bring in such a measure. He would not have lent himself to such a Bill if he had looked, as he ought, to Him by whom kings reign, and by whom princes dispense justice. He did not know how they could hope for a blessing on their labours, if they gave their assent to a mea sure that went to introduce into that House a people who said that the great Head of the Church was a blasphemer and an impostor.
 Mr. Poulter  differed from the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and from the hon. Members who had sided with him in opinion, as regarded the propriety of the interference of that House in a matter of this kind. It appeared to him that there were some circumstances of a peculiar nature in the present case which took it out of the operation of the rule which had been laid down. The fact was, that although there was a very general feeling throughout France, among all classes of the population, that the prisoners at Ham had already received a degree of punishment adequate to the satisfaction of public justice, yet that the Ministry of the day were so situated with respect to party and to public opinion, that they would not act on their conviction, because of their fear that their conduct would be construed into an approval of the course of proceeding for which the prisoners had been sentenced to the punishment. And when it was considered that there was no assembly on the face of the earth which stood so high in the estimation of the French people as the British House of Commons—above all, no assembly in which it was known there was a greater repugnance to, and dislike of, such principles as those which had actuated these unfortunate prisoners, those acts for which he (Mr. Poulter) was bound to say they had been justly condemned, he thought that, in these circumstances, there would be found grounds for interference, which in other cases, perhaps, might not exist. Even admitting all the  primâ facie 1205
 Mr. Hume : If there be any one question which deeply affects the British public, it is what shall be the fate of the measure for reforming the Irish corporations. I therefore conjure the noble Lord, so far from postponing it, to postpone, in preference, even the Stamp-duties Bill—any measure is inferior in importance to one which affects the whole of the Irish people. The question is really this, whether the House having to decide on a point of just ice to Ireland, shall postpone the consideration of such a subject for a week.
 Mr. Hume  hoped he might be indulged while he made a few observations on a subject of considerable importance. When examined before the Committee on Corporal Punishments, he had stated in his evidence [the hon. Member read the extract] that a native of India had been tried by court-martial at Calcutta, and sentenced to 1,900 lashes for insolence and insubordination, 1,250 of which had been inflicted. Since that time, he had ascertained that there was a mistake committed on his part, and he had an application made at the Horse Guards, and had then in his hand the official report, from which it appeared that the first part of the statement was perfectly correct. The individual was sentenced on two charges, tried before the same court-martial, to 1,900 lashes, only 650 of which had been inflicted. Having satisfied himself that he was in error, he was desirous that it should be immediately corrected; and he trusted the House would excuse him. He thought it necessary to take the first opportunity of making the statement so publicly, as the evidence given before that Committee was read with deep interest.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that what had fallen from the hon. Secretary (Mr. Baring) proved the necessity of an alteration in the existing system. At all events, he thought it was a fit subject for inquiry.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that the motion had been brought forward, as it was the proper office of the House of Commons to be a check upon the Government, and it ought not to be hurried on by a motion like that before it, to consent to adopt a principle of extravagance that would be wholly unjustifiable. He must say, that throughout the whole of the debate, from the first speaker to the last, the only subject referred to had been the situation of the officers, that of the privates and subordinate officers had never been once alluded to; the question had been considered in a partial, and not as it ought to have been, in a general point of view. If the recommendations which he had submitted to the House in the years 1819, 1820, and, 1821 had been attended to, the circum stances which had given rise to the present motion would never have existed, because on those occasions he had strongly pointed out the expediency of calling in officers from half-pay to active service, instead of
 1225
 Mr. Philip Howard  was, in unison with his colleague, intrusted with a petition from the Mayor and Town-council of Carlisle, praying and urging the House to persevere in enforcing the claim of right, which the people of Ireland had to the same purified municipal institutions which England and Scotland now enjoyed. These rights were possessed by Ireland before the Union, and, therefore, without even taking into consideration its claim to equal rights with themselves, they could not, in his opinion, be withheld without a positive breach of the conditions of that compact.
 Mr. Philip Howard  trusted, that the motion would receive the sympathy of
 1196
 Mr. Randall Plunket  believed, that the severity of the sentence passed on the un fortunate prisoners at Ham had been carried into effect in consequence of the cruelty of that nation of which he did not
 1200
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was satisfied that the adoption of the motion would not tend to promote the object which the hon. Gentleman and the majority of the House had in view. He wished, however, to observe that he could not agree in what had been observed by the hon. Member for St. Alban's (Mr. Ward) that the guilt of these persons had not been sufficiently punished. He, however, entirely concurred in the expressions of sympathy which had been uttered for those unfortunate persons, and he was sure that if they were allowed their liberty, that it would excite the sympathies of Europe in favour of the King of the French, and do much to establish his Government in the feelings of those persons who had previously been opposed to it.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was exceedingly glad of the explanation given by his hon. Friend, as the extract in the evidence which had been just read, tended seriously to reflect on the conduct of a brave and excellent officer.
 Mr. Estcourt  deprecated, the unseemly
 1233
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe , in rising to invite the House to concur in an address to the Throne, having for its object, to beseech his Majesty to use his good offices with his ally, the King of the French, for the liberation of Prince Polignac, and other imprisoned ministers of France, said that he was too well aware of the delicacy and the numerous difficulties that surrounded the question not to feel sensible how greatly he stood in need of the indulgence of the House while he stated as briefly as he was able the grounds upon which he thought England might offer her mediation with out offence, and France accept that mediation without compromising either her dignity or her independence. When the House looked back to the political career and the past lives of these misguided men, he hoped that, in advocating their release, he should stand acquitted of being actuated by any party motives, or biassed by any political prejudices in their favour. He stood there to recommend their release on higher grounds—he would ask for it in the name of even-handed justice and humanity, and in order that, if their sufferings were only to terminate with their lives, it might not be said hereafter that England, by her silence, acquiesced in their captivity, or that no attempt was ever made to relieve and mitigate their afflictions. He might be asked (admitting this view of the question to be correct) what right did we possess to interfere with the domestic policy or the internal arrangements of another country? Or what precedents there were that could be adduced in support of his proposition? These were the difficulties he knew he had to contend with—these were the obstacles that he should be expected to overcome. With regard to the right that we might have to interfere with the internal policy of another country, he must say that he thought such a question came rather too late. It was true non-intervention had been our precept; but how far it had been our practice he might safely leave Spain to answer, France to illustrate, or the house of Bourbon to acknowledge. It was now nearly six years since the British public first heard with admiration and de light of the glories of July, and the triumphs of the barricades—when the citizens of Paris rose almost as one man, and proclaimed that "the will of the people" was the only legitimate title to the throne. The successful struggle made by
 1192 1193 "Ham, March 4. "Dear Sir—Those alone who have experienced severe affliction, can understand how more than consolatory, how gratifying it is to learn, that friends still remain who are not indifferent to our appalling misfortunes. It was under these impressions that I perused your generous speech in favour of the prisoners at Ham, and learnt the flattering attention with which it was listened, to by an enlight-
 1194 "Allow me to subscribe myself, "Dear Sir, your's truly, "LA PSSE. DE POLIGNAC." "To T. Duncombe, Esq., M.P." 1195
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, that, not merely in deference to the opinions which had been given, but also from a regard to the interests of the individuals whose cause he had endeavoured to support, he should
 1207
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  gave his hon. Friend full credit for the conscientious part he had taken; but he claimed equal credit for himself in that which he had pursued and meant to pursue on the question before the House. He was decidedly and distinctly opposed to the view taken of it by his hon. Friend. He did not, in the first instance, mean to have trespassed on the attention of the House; but he should now beg its indulgence for a few moments, in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. Friend on the subject of his motion. His hon. Friend had said, that there were no petitions of any importance in favour of the motion. To this he would reply by referring him to those from the great commercial communities of London and Bristol, and also to those from Portsmouth, Devonport, and other places. These petitions were not only important from the circumstances of number and locality, but also from the fact that the petitioners were in close communication with the great body of the professors of the Jewish faith in this kingdom, and had, therefore, an opportunity of acquiring an accurate knowledge of their habits, moral and social, and their political feelings and opinions. The Rabbi Cruz might think what he pleased on the subject, and express his opinions as strongly as he chose, but the question was not to be decided by his opinions. It was a question of principle—a question not involving any insensibility to a religious belief, as his hon. Friend would fain imply, but involving the principle that civil and religious functions were essentially different in their nature. It was urged by his hon. Friend that the Jews believed themselves a nation, and did not look upon themselves as of any people among whom they resided. Did that make any difference to them in the amount of the King's taxes—did the collector abate a shilling for that cause—were they exempt from the consequences of high treason for it—were they not, in fact, equally liable to all the burthens of
 1232
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if the question were to be discussed for the first time now, or when it was brought on before there was a decision of the House against the Bill, there might be some grounds for postponing the consideration to another time. But when that House and the country had already pronounced in favour of the Bill, then he would not be acting fairly or on principle if he postponed it that night. He would occupy but little of the time of the House, and would therefore move "That the House resolve itself into a Committee, to consider the civil disabilities affecting his Majesty's subjects of the Jewish persuasion."
 Mr. Ewart  said, he could bear out what had been stated by his hon. Friend, the Member for Hull, that great evils arose from the want of localization in the power of the Commissioners of Customs; and he hoped some remedy would be applied.
 Mr. William Roche  agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury in so much of his object as regarded the humanity mixed up in the question, but as regarded the form of the motion he felt himself bound to side with the hon. Member's opponents. He thought that a direct interference would be highly impolitic on the part of that House; but that, on the other hand, the universal and unanimous expression of feeling which the subject had called forth on this occasion would prove most beneficial to the prisoners.
 Sir Edward Codrington  must also disapprove the imputation of cruelty cast upon the French nation by the hon. Member for Drogheda. He had been in Paris immediately after the revolution in 1830, and could confirm the statement of the noble Secretary for the Home Department.
 Sir E. Codrington  contended, that the interests of the naval and military services were not sufficiently attended to. He thought prize-money might have been more advantageously appropriated by way of remuneration. No naval officer was
 1226 l.
 Captain Pechell  supported the motion. There were 700 midshipmen who had passed examination—of these 200 were unemployed, and of the 500 who were employed some were paid so little as 10 l. l. l.
 Mr. Ward  did not say, that Prince Polignac and his colleagues had not been sufficiently punished, but that their crime was against the French nation, and they had been sentenced to death, and that their present punishment was a commutation of their former sentence.
 Mr. Ward  thought, that if the motion of the hon. Gentleman was carried, it would not only be an interference with the internal affairs of another country, but would also interfere between great public offenders and the justice of a nation. He could not help feeling that the persons who were the object of the motion, had been guilty of crimes of the greatest magnitude. Prince Polignac had played a great game, which, if it had been successful, would have made him the chief minister of a sovereign who would be an absolute despot. They had been tried for their offence and found guilty, and sentenced to the punishment of death. The punishment they were now, and for a series of years had been undergoing, was a commutation of the original sentence on them. When, also, hon. Gentlemen recollected the great loss of life that had resulted from the attempt of those persons, he had no doubt they would hesitate before they sanctioned the proposition submitted to the House. For his own part, he did not think that it was carrying the punishment farther than was necessary, when an offence of such magnitude occurred. Hon. Gentlemen talked of the humanity and desirableness of mediation on the part of this country. No doubt intervention or mediation, for the purpose of preserving peace was most beneficial, and this could often be re sorted to, as this country was interested in preserving friendly relations between other nations; but how could we mediate or intervene for a mitigation of punishment for political offences with which this country had nothing to do? At any rate he felt satisfied that it was a question which should not lightly be dealt with in that House. What, he asked, would be the feelings of that House and of the country, if a foreign power chose to interfere with this nation for a mitigation of punishment for great political crimes. Although his feelings might prompt him
 1197
 Sir John Elley  was sure that the officers of the army and navy would feel much indebted to the hon. Member who had brought this subject forward, and he trusted that it would have a good effect. He was a major general of seventeen years' standing, but though he did not feel particularly desirous of any further promotion, he certainly felt anxious that many deserving men, who were at present below him in rank should, receive that promotion to which they were justly entitled. Even advancement, how ever, so far from being serviceable, was sometimes injurious, for there was this anomaly in the army—that a lieutenant colonel when advanced to the rank of major-general in most cases found himself worse off in point of emolument than he was before. The junior class of officers, whom he might call the operatives of the navy, and who endured more danger and fatigue than any other, had neither the re payment of promotion nor distinction; for on almost every occasion when badges or medals were given out for any brilliant action, they were overlooked. He would particularly press the case of the artillery corps on the attention of the House and
 1224
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that as his right hon. Friend had not given any reasons why he called upon the House to resolve itself into a Committee, he should content him self with simply negativing the motion proposed. Two petitions had been presented in favour of such a measure as that which it was proposed to bring in; and was that a sufficient reason for the motion? He believed, that he had before stated, what was admitted by every hon. Gentle man, that there had not been presented a single petition from the Jews assembled together as a religious body, in favour of a measure for the removal of their civil disabilities. No petition had emanated from any synagogue, nor had it ever been de bated in that House that any Chief Priest or Rabbi had given their support to a Bill for their emancipation, as it was termed. That fact alone, he thought, was a reason, regarding the matter as a religious question affecting our duties, as well as their (the Jew's) rights, which was deserving of more attention than it had received. He be-
 1228 1229 1230 1231
 Sir Robert Inglis  begged to know from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he intended to bring on that night the motion of which he bad given notice. The question was one on which the House was not agreed; and, from the importance of the question, he would put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether he thought it desirable at that late hour of the night to raise a discussion upon it, especially as the House was not very full?
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that when the hon. Member for Finsbury first gave notice of a motion on this subject, he could not help feeling some degree of envy at the generous feelings which actuated the hon. Gentleman. He had, however, mentioned at the time, that he could not support an Address to the Crown on the subject, as it would be an interference with the internal affairs of another nation. He now repeated that opinion; but he was most anxious for the success of the object which the hon. Member had in view. Although the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, might not give such an answer to the hon. Gentle man as he might wish, yet he trusted that the noble Lord would use other means to attain the desired end. This he also thought could be more readily and easily obtained by the means he referred to than by a formal Address to the Sovereign to exercise his influence to further this object. He would not provoke a discussion as to whether or not these persons in the prison of Ham deserved the punishment which had been inflicted on them; and, above all, when he recollected that by doing so he might remove to a greater distance the chance of their release.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  deprecated the narrow economy which would alienate the good will of some of the bravest and best officers. The regular united service was not even on an equality with the East India Company's troops, for these latter had a half-pay at a fixed period of service, which went on increasing from time to time. He would implore his Majesty's Ministers not to disgust some of the best officers in both services.
 Mr. Hutt  rose to move for a Return of the number of Ships' Reports that required amendment during the two years ending 5th January, 1836, the date of each ship's arrival, and the date at which the amended Report was completed; stating the nature of the error in each case. He felt it to be his duty, while representing a large commercial constituency, to direct the attention of the Government and the House to some great evils which the present Custom House system presented. He had had occasion to see a great deal of public offices; but there was not one which caused greater inconveniences to those who had to do with it, than the Custom House. In a country which drew 20,000,000 l. 1210
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that although it would not be expedient to press this question to a division, and although it was not consistent with the policy of his Majesty's Government to accede to it, there could be no doubt its object, and the manner in which it had been brought forward,
 1204
 Viscount Howick  said, it was for him no praise to feel, in common with other Members, the claims which old and distinguished officers possessed on the consideration of the House and the country. He believed that many of those individuals had experienced great disappointment from the want of promotion consequent upon the close of the war. This was in a great degree the cause of the hardship complained of. He was most willing to acknowledge the claims that these officers had upon the House and the country; yet he felt bound to take other circumstances into consideration. He could not forget, that in the year 1833, a Committee was appointed to investigate the subject of the army and navy appointments. The resolutions which that Committee came to, strongly recommended that, unless in some exigency of the public service, no additions should be made to the generals and flag officers. On that Committee there sat many Gentlemen of both services, who naturally felt the fullest anxiety for the interests of both, and he had never heard that any opinion was expressed dissenting from the resolutions that that Committee then adopted. At the present time there were no less than 360 general officers, and for these the whole army did not find employment in the pro portion of more than one in ten. The whole number in actual command did not exceed from thirty-six to forty. In the estimates of the year the amount for general officers unattached was 106,000 l. 1221
 Viscount Howick , in explanation, contended, that after the resolution of the Committee of 1833, the Government were not in a condition to propose any recommendation on this subject. He did not
 1223 l.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that from the speeches which had been made on both sides of the House, and from the manifestations of opinion with which those speeches had been received, two things Mere sufficiently clear—first, that the House sympathised with the hon. Member for Finsbury in those feelings of humanity and generosity which had impelled him to bring forward this Motion; and, secondly, that it was not the opinion of the House that the Motion for an application on the part of the British Government to the French Government should be pressed at the present moment. He was speaking for himself, and he believed for his colleagues, when he said, that nothing would give him more sincere pleasure than to hear that the Government of France had thought it expedient to ad vise the King of the French to exercise his prerogative of pardon towards Prince Polignac and his fellow sufferers. He was sure that such an act of mercy on the part
 1198 1199
 Lord Stanley  said, it was undoubtedly his wish to have his bill brought in, and he was also anxious to take that course which would at once be convenient to the Government, and likely to insure a fair consideration, both of his proposition and that of the Government. It had been his object to avoid the inconvenience of making his motion as an amendment to the second reading of the Ministerial Bill, but undoubtedly he did mean to offer his measure as a substitute for that. He would, therefore, take the liberty of asking a question in answer to the one which had been addressed to him. He wished to know whether, if he were to bring in his bill, his noble Friend would object to postpone for three weeks the second reading of the Government measure, in order
 1239
 Lord Stanley : I hope the interest I have at all times taken in the question now under consideration, and the part which it was my lot to perform on various occasions in the discharge of my official duties, will, at least, vindicate me from any. accusation of undue presumption in offering myself to the notice of the House at this early period. I can assure my noble Friend, that although I feel myself compelled to come forward upon this occasion, I do it, not undervaluing the importance, the difficulties, the overwhelming embarrassments of the subject, which I, as much as any man in the House, feel; and nothing should have
 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244 l l 1245 l l 1246 Cheers, we believe, from Mr. O' Connell l l l 1247 1248 l l l l l l l l l l l 1249 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1250 l l l l "One of the most onerous and important duties which have engaged the attention of the Commissioners, was that connected with the repairs of churches and chapels. The provincial architects having been employed in their respective provinces in inspecting and reporting upon the nature and extent of the repairs of such churches as appeared to be in the greatest need of repair, and in furnishing detailed estimates of such repairs as they recommended to be immediately executed, detailed estimates were accordingly furnished by them, and have been carefully examined; but as the state of the Commissioners' funds only admitted of a selection being made of the most pressing cases, and as delay only increased the evil, they deemed it prudent and indispensable to enter into engagements to the amount of 75,000 l l l "To the 1st. instant an expenditure of l1,336 l s d l s d "And we have to report, under the head of incidental repairs of churches, which sustained injury by reason of any unforeseen event, an expenditure to the amount of 447 l s d "The Commissioners have also to state, that applications have been received for aid, not only for the enlargement of several churches, where the accommodation has been reported to be quite insufficient for the respective congregations, but also for the re-building or erection of sixty churches; and in many of these applications the parties have expressed their willingness to contribute sums, varying in amount from 60 l l 1251 1252 l l l l l l l l l l 1253 l l l 1254 l l l l l l l 1255 l l l l maximum l l l l l l l l l 1256 l l 1257 l l l l l l "This benefice comprises the greatest part of Connemara, Ballynahill, Moycross, and Bull—in down, and contiguous to Umma, Killanmine (94 Est. Ch.) lies at a distance of thirteen miles from the Church. Arranmore, Ennismain, Ennisur, and Ennisbiffin, are
 1258 Hear, hear 1259 Morpeth l l 1260 l l l 1261 maximum or minimum l s 1262 l s l l s 1263 1264 maximum: 
 
 129 clergymen, with an income not more than 100 l 
 670 clergymen, with an income not more than 200 l 
 209 clergymen, with an income not more than 230 l 
 188 clergymen, with an income not more than340 l 
 54 clergymen, with an income not more than500 l l l l l l l l minimum l maximum 1265 minimum l maximum l l l l l l l l maximum minimum 
 
 129 clergymen, with an income of 50 l 6,450 l 
 670 clergymen, at a  minimum l 6,700 l 
 209 clergymen, at a  minimum l 41,800 l 
 188 clergymen, at a  minimum l 56,400 l 
 54 clergymen, at a  minimum l 16,200 l l l minimum l l l 1266 l l 1267 l l l l l 1268 l l l 1269 l l l l 1270 l 1271 l l l 1272 l l l l l l l l l l 1273 Loud Cheers 1274
 Mr. Lefroy  had paid due attention to the speech of the noble Lord (the Secretary of State), but could discover in it nothing which in his judgment could be considered as an answer to the powerful speech of the noble Lord who opened the debate—a speech more gratifying to all the friends of the church—more full of accurate information and well-arranged details—more conclusive and triumphant in its deductions, he had never heard in that House. He was not, therefore, much surprised that the noble Lord opposite should shrink from the task of attempting a reply, and, sinking under its staggering effect, should think it prudent to divert the attention of the House from the real merits of the question before them, and introduce his amusing episodes on the Sessions Bill of the Attorney-General for Ireland, on the practice of challenging jurors at the assizes, and on the equally relevant subject of the Irish Municipal Corporation Bill. In the noble Lord's wide range of topics, foreign and irrelevant to the question under discussion, he had contrived to press into his service the military policy of France, but omitted altogether to grapple with the statement so powerfully put forth by his noble Friend, the Member for Lancashire. They were not then discussing whether or not they should have an establishment; the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, allows that the establishment should continue to be supported, and that adequate provision should be made for all the wants of the Established Church, before they could alienate one fraction of its revenues. On that point he was ready to meet the noble Lord, as he was fully satisfied that upon the closest examination of the wants and revenues of the establishment, it would be found that the ideal surplus of which they had heard so much could have no existence except in the fanciful notions of his Majesty's Ministers. It was assuredly in the noble Lord's power to grant fifty thousand a-year for the education of the Irish people, if that were really the object; and it little mattered from what source the supply for educational purposes was derived, provided that it proved fully adequate for the objects contemplated. Was it to lose all its value to the Irish people, unless it were derived from this surplus, which, upon close examination, would turn out to be a perfect delusion? He would
 1291 l l l l l 1292 l l l l l l l l 1293 l l l 
 
 In 324 it was above 100 
 In 215 it was above 300 
 In 171 it was above 500 
 In 65 it was above 1000 
 In 34 it was above 2000 1294 1295 Hear, hear
 Mr. Lefroy  —if he were not mistaken in his interpretation of the cheer of the hon. Member, it meant to convey, that peace and harmony could only be restored to Ireland by the spoliation of the revenues of the Irish Church, and its consequent total abolition. If such was his expectation, he would find himself most lamentably disappointed. "What, Sir, continued the learned Member, are those to look on with peace and harmony, while the church to which they belong is being plundered of its rights, and the ministers they revere reduced to want and penury?" If any party in that House, or out of that House, could be so foolish as to expect that the subversion of the Irish Church, and the alienation of its lawful revenues, would tend to restore peace and harmony in Ireland, he would take the liberty of assuring them that they were grossly deceiving
 1296
 Mr. Goulburn : There is no such provision.
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  felt bound to give his general support to the measure of his Majesty's Ministers, although he could not extend his unqualified approbation to that part of it which imposed upon the Catholic landlords the necessity of contributing to the maintenance of a Church from which they derived no benefit.
 Colonel Conolly  could not accede to a proposition founded on the supposition of an imaginary surplus, which was to be carried out for the purpose of impoverishing the clergy of the Church of Ireland. The question of surplus was but used as an instrument to sustain a party in power, which party now found that, having used it for one purpose, it hung like a mill stone round their necks with respect to
 1325
 Lord John Russell  could not consent to the postponement of the second reading of the Irish Church Bill.
 Lord John Russell : I beg, Sir, to remind the House, that I took occasion, before my noble Friend commenced, to propose to him that he should have an opportunity, if he thought fit, to bring in any Bill he might have prepared on the
 1275 1276 l 1277 l 1278 1279 1280 "To 675 benefices of the first class, containing more than fifty, and less than 500 Protestants, at 200 l l "To 211 benefices of the second class, containing more than 500, and less than 1,000 Protestants, at 300 l l "To 190 benefices of the third class, containing more than 1,000, and less than 3,000 Protestants, at 400 l l "To fifty-one benefices of the fourth class, containing upwards of 3,000 Protestants, at 500/. per benefice, rent-charge and thirty acres of glebe valued as before—27,795 l "To 123 benefices of the fifth class, containing less than fifty Protestants, at 100/. per benefice, rent-charge and thirty acres of glebe valued as before—17,835 l l l l l l l l 1281 l l l l l "When any parish or parishes appropriate, belong to, and are annexed to any archbishopric or bishopric in Ireland, it shall and may be lawful for any archbishop, with the consent of the dean and chapter of the diocese, and when there is not any dean and chapter, then with the consent of the major part of the beneficed clergy of the diocese, and also of the archbishop and patron of such parish, under their
 1282 l l l l 1283 l l l l l l l l 1284 l l l 1285 1286 1287 1288 1289 1290
 Lord John Russell  undoubtedly would not consent to the postponement of the second reading of the Irish Church Bill. It had now been some time before the House, and hon. Gentlemen must be quite ready to come to a decision on its principle. It was not his intention to propose the commitment of the bill until some time hence; but he could not postpone the second reading of the bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that notice of an amendment to the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of the Irish Church Bill having been given by the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley), he rose to state that he should offer no opposition to the introduction of the noble Lord's bill, if the noble Lord's motion was submitted to the House as a substantive one. He should then treat it in the same way as he last year dealt with a motion made by the Chief Secretary for Ireland for leave to bring in a bill relative to tithe in Ireland, and as he had dealt with the motion of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R Peel) for a bill to provide for the voluntary commutation of tithe—that was to say, he should offer no opposition to the bringing in of the bill. But if the noble Lord's motion were to be made as an amendment to the order of the day, it would of course be impossible for him to agree to it.
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer  rose to order.—He could not see the propriety of the hon. and learned Gentleman discussing the meaning of his cheer.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that there were two documents on the Table which decided this question. The one showed that the House thought 25,000 l l 1326 l l l l l 1327 veto 1328 l l l l 1329
 The Speaker  —I must apprise the hon. Member (Mr. O'Connell) that such expressions are not to be allowed in the proceedings of this House.
 Mr. Hardy  respected the Gentleman opposite for his opinions, and gave him every credit for sincerity. He thought, however, that the Gentleman, on his own principles, was bound to oppose the Bill before the House. If, as the hon. Member contended, 750,000 l 1330 l 1331 1332
 Mr. Poulter  thought the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had misunderstood what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. He, (Mr. P.) understood him to say that in providing reasonably and moderately for the Church Establishment in Ireland, he was bound to regard, in a great measure, the population of the whole country, and the great moral and religious interests of that population. And he (Mr. P.) agreed with the noble Lord, that looking to the general condition of that population, he had most adequately and sufficiently provided for the just wants of the Establishment. The hon. Gentleman had said, that the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, had made a proposition which no one could find fault with. He (Mr. P.) considered that the proposition of the noble Lord opposite rested upon a basis that could not be maintained. That noble Lord desired to give to one part of the country the benefit of any excess of tithes that was in the other, and where there were small livings in the north, to increase them by tithes taken from parishes in the south of Ireland. In doing that he was forgetting the principle of the original grant of tithes; for that grant always contemplated the particular local benefit of the district on which it was levied. Undoubtedly, in the first instance, the object of the Church
 1322 1323 1324
 Mr. Buxton : What, then, is the meaning of these words in the preamble:—"Whereas it is just and necessary for the establishment of peace and good order in Ireland, and conducive to religion and morality, that after adequate provision made for the spiritual wants of the members of the Established Church, the surplus revenue shall be applied to the moral and religious education of the people, without distinction of religious persuasions?" And what is the meaning of the 75th Clause, which directs, first, the payment of incidental expenses;—secondly, provision for the decent and suitable maintenance of the clergy;—thirdly, the purchase of advowsons and glebes. And when these objects are accomplished and satisfied, then, and not till then, you have to deal with the question of surplus. I must again complain that some little disingenuousness has been exerted in discussing this question of surplus, Gentle-
 1300 1301 1302 1303 1304 1305 1306 1307 1308 1309 1310
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  spoke as follows:  * * 1297 1298 1299
 Mr. William Ewart Gladstone : Sir, the hon. Member for Weymouth undertook, at the commencement of his speech, to reprove the noble Lord on this side of the House, who opened the debate, for having professed to come forward in the character of a peacemaker, and for then having failed to satisfy the expectations which had been raised by that announcement. But now let the House or let the hon. Member himself, in his own case, judge whether he has duly sustained the character which he professed to vindicate. What has been the course of his speech? Has he not revived the unfortunate history of former times, and all the topics of animosity which it can supply, recounting to us such cases as he has gathered of insolence or cruelty in the conduct of Protestants? But if Gentlemen on this side of the House were to do no more than follow out the course which the hon. Gentleman himself has traced—if they, upon the other hand, were to search for those details of bloody and fearful retaliation by the Roman Catholics upon the Protestants—[Mr.  O'Connell:
 Mr. William Ewart Gladstone : I say,
 1311 1312 bonâ fide 1313 l 1314 l l l maximum maximum l 1315 l 1316 concordat uti possidelis 1317 l l 1318 "I have to instruct you to state to M. Ancillon, that the perfect system of religious toleration, which is not only established by law in Prussia, but understood to be also practically engrafted upon the habits of the people, renders Prussia a model for the imitation of other countries in such matters." 1319 l not l l 1320 1321
 Mr. William Roche , in presenting a petition from the city of Limerick, said, that it was signed by no less than nine thousand citizens, and expressed in terms strong and emphatic, yet not too strong or energetic for the painful necessity of the occasion, their indignant feelings on the injustice and degradation attempted to be put upon the people of Ireland by being pronounced, not in this house, but in another place, unworthy or incapable of enjoying those free municipal institutions which had been recently conferred upon the people of England and Scotland, and from which the people of England and Scotland had, even already, experienced considerable advantages. The people of Limerick and of Ireland felt that, like individuals, if nations tamely submitted to humiliation, the insult was sure to be repeated, until at length every scintilla of national right and national dignity would be trampled in the dust. Ireland associated herself with this country on terms of perfect equality and reciprocity. She had performed her share of the compact fairly, fully, and honourably, and she, therefore, claimed from this country, as the other contracting party, the same share of faithful and honourable bearing. If she obtained it all would be right, but if she did not, it was an universally admitted maxim that the violation of a compact by one party liberated the obligations of the other. It was, there fore, that the petitioners implored the
 1238
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to say, that the course which the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) proposed to pursue, of pressing his bill to a second reading, before his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) had an opportunity of introducing his measure, was contrary to the course taken with regard to his (Sir R. Peel's) bill for the voluntary commutation of tithe. It was true, that the noble Lord permitted the introduction of that bill; but when he (Sir R. Peel) proposed to read the bill a second time, an objection was taken to such a proceeding, on the part of one of the Ministers, on the ground that the House could not allow of the second reading of the bill, as a matter of course, because that would be an affirmation of its principle. If, therefore, the noble Lord was anxious now to pursue the same course as had been taken with respect to the bill for the voluntary commutation of tithe, he would consent to the postponement of the second reading of the Irish Church Bill, until the measure of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) was introduced.
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of explaining, the hon. Member having somewhat irregularly alluded to what he (Lord John Russell) had been reported to have said in the debate last evening. He was not to be held responsible for any words attributed to him in the columns of a newspaper not published with the sanction of that House. He was not going over the ground anew; perhaps he had represented his own opinions imperfectly, but what he meant to state last night was, that his sentiments were in accordance with those which had been stated by Archdeacon Paley.
 Mr. Maclean  said, he had made the quotation from  The Times
 Mr. Maclean  cordially concurred in one observation made by the hon. Member who had just sat down, that even if the principle of this Bill were conceded, it would by no means be the last concession the House would be called upon to make. After having taken their stand on a question of principle, and so important a principle as that contained in the noble Lord's Bill, if they could be induced by any argument urged in the course of the debate to sacrifice that principle on which their stand had been taken, nothing would be left which could at all afford the people of England the slightest confidence in the integrity and wisdom of their procedure. He could not, however, but repudiate in the strongest manner the unfeeling allusion made by the hon. Gentleman to what he called "the ostentatious display of superfluous wealth" in support of the distressed Protestant clergy in Ireland, as if it had sprung, not from sympathy with those sufferings which, thank God, the Protestants of Ireland had no hand in creating, but from a desire, knowing that their names
 1362 1363 1364 1365 History of England 1366 "She is not conquered; beauty's ensign yet "Is crimson on her cheeks and on her lips, "And Death's pale flag is not advanced there."
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer  said, the
 1356 1357 1358 1359 1360 1361
 Mr. Barron  rose. He said, that he felt it his duty, as a resident of Waterford to contradict the statements that had been made in the debate of last night, relative to the sentiments of the gentry of that country, both Protestant and Catholic. The support given to this Bill was not confined to the Catholics alone. The Protestants also were, he was fully convinced, most anxious that a Bill, such as that which had been introduced by his Majesty's Government, should receive the assent of that House. All the most influential landed proprietors, all the men of information, property, and station—the magistracy, and even the clergy in his part of the country—were most anxious that the Bill brought in by his Majesty's Government should pass; and they expressed their opinions openly and by petitions, that this question should be finally settled. There could not be a greater delusion practised on the people of England than to say, that this was a Catholic feeling and a Catholic agitation. He could assure the House and the English people, that the Protestants of Ireland were heartily sick of agitation, and so were the Catholics of property and station. But they knew well that this question would never be settled on the principles laid down by the noble Lord or the right hon. Gentleman opposite. They knew those principles to be unjust, and they would not be parties to injustice. They thought, and thought properly, that the people had a right to a portion of the tithes and of the Church property, which had been granted by their ancestors, not for the benefit of a petty sect—nor for political purposes—not for the advantage of an exclusive party—
 1338 rechauffe rechauffe 1339 1340 l l l l l l l l l s l s s d s s 1341 l l 1342 l 1343
 Mr. Gally Knight  said, that having been pointedly alluded to by the hon. Member for Waterford he felt it necessary to say a few words. The hon. Gentleman a short time back had quoted a passage from a speech of his delivered in 1832; and expressed his surprise, that after the declaration of the opinions contained in that speech he should regard the question now before the House in the light in which he did regard it. It would not have been wonderful if, after the manner in which promises had been broken, after the total failure of that reconciliation which was to have ensued, after the deeply-to-be-lamented conduct of the political priests, and the prostitution of religion to political purposes, he did not think it would have been wonderful if any man had been induced to take up, with regard to that question, an entirely new position. But it was not these considerations which made him think the Established Church less out of proportion than he had thought it, but because since 1832 its proportions had been materially changed. In 1833 inquiries had not been instituted, and it was confidently asserted that the annual income of the Irish Church amounted to no less than three millions. Since that time the truth had been ascertained.
 1344 l l 1345 1346 1347 1348
 Mr. John Young  informed the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that he was quite wrong with regard to the clergy of the Established Church,—they had already made extensive sacrifices to conciliate the people of Ireland; they were willing to make more, and no body of men
 1353 1354 1355
 Mr. Sheil : The right hon. Baronet has concluded a speech in favour of religion and of the Constitution by quoting an Atheist and a Tory. He has indulged in a dissertation upon property, which it is to be lamented that the Cumberland yeomen did not hear, in order that he may henceforth correct his erroneous notions on that subject. The right hon. Baronet has quoted Paley; he forgot to state that
 1404 1405 1406 1407 1408 1409 1410
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  said, he was aware that any argument he could offer upon this subject would be vain. Whatever might be the opinion of that House upon this Bill it must go for nothing, as it would be defeated by the other House of Parliament. He must, however, as an Irish Protestant, and an Irish Representative, state what his sentiments were. He would come to the main point, the application of the surplus that might rise from the Church property of Ireland, after providing for the spiritual wants of the Irish Protestants. This property was originally wrested from the Roman Catholic clergy, and given to the Protestant clergy, with a view to the conversion of the population of Ireland to the Protestant religion. In this they failed, and the proposed object not having been attained, he considered it fully competent to Parliament to apply any surplus of it to purposes best calculated to promote the education of the Irish people, guaranteeing, at the same
 1349 l l l l l l 1350 l l l l l l l l l 1351
 Mr. William Roche  said, that admiring as he did the liberal sentiments expressed by his hon. Friend, and he might say nearly colleague, he regretted that he must dissent from his views of conferring upon the Catholic clergy of Ireland a state provision. As an advocate for each sect supporting its own pastors, and thereby freeing religion and the clergy at large from the jealousies and hostilities created by a contrary practice, he must oppose the views of his hon. Friend on this head; but while he did so, he was anxious to acknowledge the sincere and good intentions of his hon. Friend, although he could not accord with the wisdom or expediency of this idea. Nevertheless, he (Mr. Roche) would like to see the comfort of the Catholic clergy in some measure provided for; not, however, by trespassing on the State or on other communities, but by their own people providing in each parish a moderate glebe-house and a moderate annexation of land, leaving them to earn the remainder of their support by their zeal and assiduity, and by the consequent affection and attachment of their flocks. But to come to the question at issue, he prayed cave to inquire what was the mighty, and, n fact, the only been sought for by the Bill of the noble Secretary for Ireland, namely, the appropriation of any contingent surplus; what more did they ask than the gleanings of a superabundant harvest, the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table? Should these be trivial and insignificant, as predicted by Gentlemen on the opposite side, were they worth contending for? but if, on the other hand, they proved sufficient towards their intended purpose, to what object could they he applied more salutary, or more congenial with the true spirit and interests of religion, and the imperative duties of every priesthood, than that of promoting the enlightenment, the morality, and the consequent temporal and eternal happiness of the people? and was not this more particularly due to that portion of the Irish people who, in consequence of differing from the doctrines of the Established Church, could not derive any other return from the heavy pressure on their industry, occasioned by the maintenance of that
 1352
 Sir James Graham : I rise to address the House on the present occasion with the greatest degree of diffidence and reluctance; diffidence, because all that ingenuity can devise—all that industry can accumulate—all that can be urged in argument—and all that eloquence can pour forth upon this subject—has been exhausted in the course of the debate;—reluctance, because I feel that I am addressing a House which is spell-bound by foregone conclusions to a course, which my sense of duty will not allow me to pursue; a course, too, in which, according to my judgment, in a critical juncture of affairs like the present, it becomes imperative upon the House to pause, to reconsider it, and to reverse their decisions; although I am far from being so sanguine as to expect that the division of this night will prevail upon them to do so. In point of principle there is not so much difference between the two measures before us, as there would appear to be from the heat and earnestness with which the question has been debated. My hon. Friend, the Member for Weymouth, has shown that, in three most prominent points, although the mode of effecting them varies, the two measures themselves are almost identical. The first of these points is, that no benefices shall be
 1390 l l 1391 l 1392 "Great wealth in the hands of a bad man may, by fraud, be transferred to the hands of a good man; and the immediate effect of that transfer may be beneficial: but the rules which regulate the right of property are, nevertheless, weakened, a dangerous example is set, and security for life and property is destroyed." Hear! hear! 1393 minimum maximum minimum l 1394 l 1395 mutatis mutandis "Why not divide Ireland into districts, and allot a certain number of men to afford spiritual consolation to the Protestants residing within such district? Why not commute the tithes, sell all the landed property of the Church, and cast the proceeds of the sale into one common fund, out of which you can pay the stipends of the clergy, doing away with that inequality of income which now prevails in the mode of their remuneration." * * 1396 l l l l l l s d l l l s d l l 1397 l l l l l l l concordat concordat 1398 l l l l l 1399 Calls of "Question." Hear! Hear! 1400 "He was personally convinced that to discuss the question would be to bring on a convulsion in the country. * l "If that House was to enter into a contest with the Lords they should do it for something worth contesting. The present was but a shadow of a claim, to prosecute which would be risking the peace and tranquillity of the country for the sake of an abstract principle. He regarded the Constitution in a very different light to some hon. Gentlemen. The check which one House exercised over another was not invented for the purpose of bringing the two Houses into collision on every difference of opinion, but in order that measures should be adopted that were satisfactory to both and beneficial to the country. There was no doubt that the diminution of the Bishops and the abolition of the Church-cess would not be voluntarily acceded to by the House of Lords, but merely because, on considering the nature of the Constitution, they would feel it their duty to yield to the sense of the country and to the declared wish of the House of Commons. The question for them to consider was, whether at the present season they would think it worth while to pass a Bill which contained many essential benefits, although it did not sanction a principle to which there existed in the minds of some men great, and perhaps insuperable obstacles. If that House were to enter into a contest with the House of Lords, he hoped the contest would take place on some question of importance, and that they would not wantonly and on trivial grounds provoke a collision.†" * † Hansard, Third Series, vol. xviii. p. 1095. 1401 "He could understand it as proceeding from those who in discussions which had taken place in that House had paid but little regard to the general security of property; but for himself, he was of opinion that this country would not stand a revolution once a year. Under the present circumstances of the country, they were bound to make sacrifices to preserve and promote tranquillity and the security of property. Let others be for convulsion, he was for peace. * "At the same time, my Lords, that I propose this measure, I am fully aware of the effects which it will produce, and of the objections which may be urged against it. I am deeply sensible and much concerned at the impression which I feel that it will make. I cannot conceal from myself that it will be, in the first instance, and for a certain time, a heavy blow and a great discouragement to Protestantism in Ireland; that it will be also a great triumph to the adverse party. I am well aware that it is not the same thing to destroy as never to have constituted; to demolish as never to have built up; but this evil, which I trust will be but temporary, is forced upon me by the untoward circumstances which I have already described. I cannot avoid it, and that which I cannot avoid, I mast submit to with as much patience as I can command, and temper with as much of remedy and alleviation as it is in my power to administer. I admit the great peril and danger which necessarily attend upon and accompanies such mighty and fundamental changes. The shake and convulsion which they create, render doubtful the safety, not merely of the Establishment, but of the Constitution itself.†" Oh! Oh! * † Hansard, vol. xxx. New Series, p. 727. 1402 1403
 Viscount Morpeth : Having had but too frequent occasions to deliver my sentiments on this question, I feel that I should have little excuse, and still less temptation, for again presenting myself to the House, were it not for the desire I have to answer any objections, as well as to remove any misapprehensions, which appear to me to have arisen in the course of the debate. I do not feel myself at all constrained to enter into any controversy as to the general principle upon which this, as well as every other proposal of appropriation, rests. We make no secret of that professing principle—we avow at once that it is our intention to act upon it; and whether the burthen, which it has been both graphically and rhetorically represented to entail upon us, be light or heavy, at least we make no complaint of it, and it has not yet broken
 1367 1368 1369 1370 
 "1. To provide things necessary for the celebration of divine service in the church or chapel of every parish. "2. To pay all parish clerks and sextons. 1371 "3. To defray the expenses of building, enlarging, or repairing churches and chapels. "4. To fence and maintain church-yards. "5. To augment small livings to 200 l "6. To compensate the lay patrons of any livings that may be divided under the provisions of the said Act. "7. To defray the expenses of the Commissioners, and "8. To provide for the maintenance of curates, &c., heretofore provided for by vestry assessment, under any statute, law, or custom." l l l l l l l l 1372 l l l l l l l all 
 
 1. CHURCH TEMPORALITIES ACT, 3 & 4 Will. IV. ch. 37. 
 Revenues as at present contemplated to arise from 
 1. Produce of suppressed sees 50,780 
 2. Reduction of the bishoprick of Derry immediate and prospective 6,160 
 3. Future reduction of Armagh see 4,500 
 4. Glebe-house loan instalments, repayable for the next fifteen years 7,500 
 5. Tax on continuing bishoprics 4.600 
 6. Tax on incumbents of benefices 7,300 
 7.Interest at £4 per cent on £1,050,000, to arise from sale of perpetuities 42,000 
 N.B. Of the £1,200,000 calculated to arise from sale of perpetuities by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners (but estimated by Mr. Finlaison the Government actuary, to amount to £1,507,050) there has been realised and disbursed by the commissioners £150,000; but the interest of the 1373 
 
 residue thereof, amounting to £1,050,000, will at the rate of £4 per cent, produce an annual permanent sum, as above specified. 
 8. Income of benefices, suspended under the non-celebration service clause, for the three years to February, 1833. Nil 
 II. ACT TO ALTER AND AMEND CHURCH TEMPORALITIES ACT, 4 & 5 Will. IV. ch. 90. 
 9. From 38 dignities, without cure, and 49 prebends, without cure of souls, after deducting the expenses of collection, and making other abatements and deductions 8,000 
 N.B. This Act provides that in the case of any person holding any dignity or office under the rank of an archbishoprick or bishoprick, and  not £130,840 
 III. THE PRESENT TITHE BILL. 
 10. The 77th Clause saves existing interests, but vests the property belonging to minor canons and vicars choral in the Ecclesiastical Commissioners (some of which offices are reported by the revenue commissioners to be complete sinecures); and after providing for such of these offices as have duties, and are necessary to be upheld, authorises the surplus arising from such estates, amounting to an entire sum of £22,624, to be carried to the general fund, which surplus Is estimated to amount to. 4,000 
 11. The 79th Clause provides that the sinecure tithes disappropriated from, all dignities (having cure) may instead of being given to the vicars or perpetual curates, if otherwise sufficiently endowed, be carried to the general fund, under the administration of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners; the revenue arising from which, after making all necessary deductions and abatements, is estimated to amount to 5,300 
 £139,140 
 
 I. CHURCH TEMPORALITIES ACT. 3 & 4 Will. IV., ch. 37. 
 Revenues as estimated by Earl Grey to arise from 
 1. Produce of suppressed sees £50,780 
 2. Reduction of the bishoprick of Derry, immediate and prospective 6,l60 
 3. Future reduction of Armagh see 4,500 
 4.Giebe-house loan instalments, repayable for the next 15 years 8,000 
 5. Tax on continuing bishoprics 4,600 
 6. Tax on incumbents of benefices 41,800 
 7.Interest, at £4 per cent., on £1,000,000, to arise from the sale of perpetuities 40,000 
 N.B. Cinder the Church Temporalities Act the ecclesiastical commissioners have the power of applying the principal arising from these sales to meet their present exigences, which precludes the possibility of realising eventually an annual permanent income from this source. 
 8. Income of benefices suspended under the non-celebration service clause, for the three years to February, 1833 Nil 
 II. ACT TO ALTER AND AMEND CHURCH TEMPORALITIES, ACT 4 and 5 Will. IV., ch. 90. 
 9. Not provided for under the Church Temporalities Act. Nil 
 III. THE PRESENT TITHE BILL. 
 10. Not provided for under the Church Temporalities Act. Nil 
 11. Not provided for under the Church Temporalities Act Nil 
 £155,840 
 
 Revenues as contemplated to arise from the combined provisions of the Church Temporalities Act, the Amendment Act, and the present Tithe Bill, amount to l 
 APPLICATION OF THIS REVENUE. 
 The charges which the foregoing fund of 139,140 l 
 1. When the churches shall have been put into 1374 
 
 complete repair, the ecclesiastical commissioners report that the future repair of them will require an annual sum of £25,000 
 Other expenses formerly defrayed by vestry cess, they state, will require 35,000 
 2. Expenses of the Commission 10,000 
 3. Interest on 100,000 l 4,000 
 £74,000 
 4.Building of churches, as estimated by Earl Grey 20,000 
 5.Building of glebe-houses, as estimated by Earl Grey 10,000 
 6. To repayment of the loan of 100,000 l 20,000 
 £124,000 
 There will remain, therefore, to meet deficiencies in the items as above specified, which must increase as the building of churches increases; for the other objects of the Commission; and for the additional clerks which the ecclesiastical commissioners are authorised to employ to carry the provisions of the Tithe Bill into effect, a residue of 15,140 
 £139,140 
 
 Revenues as contemplated, by Earl Grey, to arise from the provisions of the Church Temporalities Act alone amount to l 
 APPLICATION OF THIS REVENUE. 
 The charges which the foregoing fund of 155,840 l 
 1. The Church cess, including the repairs of churches, estimated at £60,000 
 2.The augmentation of small livings to 200 l 46,500 
 3. The building of churches, being the average expenditure of three preceding years 20,000 
 4. The building of glebe-houses, which his Lordship considered very necessary, as not one half of the benefices were provided therewith 10,000 
 £136,500 
 5.The expenses of the Commission, estimated at 6,000 
 £142,500 
 There remained, therefore, to meet deficiencies, in the amounts as above estimated, and for the other objects of the Commission, a residue of 13,340 
 £155,840 l l l 1375 1376 l s d
 Mr. Daniel Whittle  Harvey said, that he was by no means prepared to participate in either of the proposals before the House, and if he could have suffered his own inclinations to be the interpreters of his duty, he should have most willingly abstained from taking part in this discussion; but, as the representative of a large constituency, he felt it due to them, he felt it due to himself, as well as to that portion
 56 57 Cheering from both sides of the House. 58 Cheers 59 60 61 62 63 l. l. l. l. l. l. 64 l. l. l. s. 65 66 67 68 cries of "Oh!" and symptoms of impatience. Hear! 69
 Mr. O'Connell : The plan laid down by the hon. and learned Gentleman is, above all things, practicable. The great merit of his scheme is to lay hold of the tithes of Ireland, and apply them to the use of the poor. That scheme of the hon. and learned Gentleman has for its great recommendation that it is certain of being carried into effect. He has only to propose it, and everybody will vote for it—he is sure of it himself—he who has boasted of his candour and sincerity. It is really nothing hut the milk of human kindness flowing over which makes him imagine he could carry such a scheme. For my own part, I am deeply indebted for the kindness he has shown me in saying that with all the interest I have taken in Ireland, I have never once thought of anything for the benefit of Ireland. I respect that cheer—there is sincerity in it—it is like the hon. and learned Gentleman, perfectly sincere. He did certainly, in his benevolence, tell us one thing which cannot be denied—he spoke of the merits of my hon. Friend who is by me, and I will tell him in return, that one of my hon. Friend's merits is, that he never sacrificed his principles or his party to his miserable resentments or disappointments—when a great national question is being discussed, not thinking of the merits of that question, or its practical results, but thinking how he should exhibit a little miserable, spiteful resentment. I wish the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet joy of their new ally. I will say to the hon. and learned Gentleman, and I say it firmly to him, that I do not think he has spoken the sentiments of his constituents, and I, humble individual as I am, am thoroughly convinced that he has not earned success tonight—let him sneer as much as he pleases at me. I give him leave to sneer as much as he pleases. If he thought he could embody this question in his own little passions and petty resentments he is deceived. No, Sir, he cannot do it. I will now come to the question that is really before us;— the episode was not of my introduction. I confess that the time is not remote when this debate would have delighted me exceedingly, as encouraging the hope of a
 70 71 72 The remainder of the sentence was lost in loud groans from the Opposition Members, followed by cheers from the Ministerial Members bonhommie, 73 toilers 74 "Here enter Turk, Jew, or Atheist Anything but a Papist." "Whoever wrote the above, wrote it well, For the same is written on the gates of hell." 75 76 77 cries of "Order" and cheers.
 Mr. O'Connell : I stand corrected, as far as ray expression may be used in that sense, and I shall not use it again; but if those were men whom I conjured, deliberately conjured, to stop the effusion of blood, and I found any man capable of meeting with a taunt that most humane proposition—a proposition that would, I think, be listened to, were we on the very verge of the Seraglio; if, out of this House, I met men who could meet such a call upon them with a taunt, I should have no hesitation in designating them as men of blood. I am not surprised that the same party who have inflicted so much misery upon Ireland, who have been the shedders of so much blood there, should not now, in the last scene, only regret this, that they could not possibly accomplish the shedding of more blood. Why, I ask, did not the right hon. Baronet, who quoted so much, not also quote from Wentworth, Lord Strafford? Oh! what a quotation he could have made from such an authority! Let him look to the summary manner in which Wentworth acted, when he insisted on having for the Crown two provinces in Ireland. The people had then charters and their titles; but of what avail were they? He sent down a Lord Chief Baron—for they had Chief Barons then also; and, as a letter of his states, to secure the services of the Chief Baron, five shillings in the pound were to be given to him out of each pound's-worth of property that he could persuade the juries to give to the Crown. "It is astonishing," said Wentworth, "how attentive the Lord Chief Baron had become." There, then, you perceive, they had Lord Chief Barons also. Wentworth also sent down two troops of horse, as "good lookers-on." The system that was then acted upon still exists. Is there any humane man in this House, any man who has not religion on his lips, and harshness in his heart, who would desire it to continue? It is for humane men, however, to
 78 79 80 81 The Evening Mail. l. s. l. 82 l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. 83 pointing to the Opposition bench on which sat Lord Stanley l. s. 84
 The Speaker  considered, that if the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny meant to apply the terra "men of blood" to those who had interrupted him, he had used a disorderly expression.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  in rising to address the House said, he had offered himself at an earlier period of the debate for that purpose, but had not succeeded in catching the Speaker's eye. He was rather pleased than otherwise at that circumstance, because, since he had before risen, the
 9 Delenda est Carthago 10 sub silentio. 11 dernier resort 12 cheer s cheers cheers 13 14 15 H. Grattan: Grattan: He loaded the pistols for the bailiffs 16 17 18 No! 19 l. 20 21 22 23 24 Ward: 25 26 27 l., l.? O'Connell: l., 28 Cheering from Mr. O'Connell and the Ministerial Members. 29 toties quoties, 30 31 l., 32 33 34 35 36 37 Loud cries of name, name, from the Ministerial benches. 38 39 40 No. 41
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I am very unwilling to take up the time of the House; but some of the statements of the right hon. Baronet have been so entirely beside the question, that unless some notice be taken of them, they may produce a most erroneous and unjust impression. Was it
 109 minimum, 110 "I know that that is an opinion which will not receive the support of the House; and, therefore, not being able at the present moment to advocate it with a prospect of success, I will take this measure, which, though it be not exactly all that I could wish, is still calculated to improve the present state of things in Ireland." "He thought that the Protestant Church of Ireland was too large, not only for the purpose of giving instruction to that part of the population of Ireland which professed the Protestant faith, but he thought it too large for its own permanent stability. Therefore, whenever the question might arise in its proper day and at it a appointed time, he should be ready to maintain the views which he had formerly expressed. It was certainly the opinion which he had always held, that it was the duty of the Legislature to provide for the religious and moral instruction of the people of Ireland in a way that had never yet been done. What was intended by our ancestors in the establishment of the Church of Ireland for religious and moral purposes had not answered that end, and as the Legislature had now to consider anew in what way that end might best be attained, it was bound to respect (as he believed every Member of that House was ready to respect) the right of those who had existing interest in the present arrangements. Preserving to the Church those rights of property which it justly claimed, the Legislature might provide for its future welfare, at the same time that it would deliver the people of Ireland from the state of ignorance in which they were proved to be by the daily accounts from the newspapers, or from other sources of information. To that ignorance he attributed all the evils by which Ireland was afflicted, and until effectual measures were
 111 * " Church property was trust property, and if the amount of it were greater than was necessary for the accomplishment of the objects of the trust —if it were greatly greater than was required for the maintenance of the Established Church for the benefit of Ireland, so far from injuring the religious interests of that Church—so far from injuring the religious interests of the Protestants, he thought that to apply a part of the revenues to the religious and moral education of the people would tend much to promote the prosperity of the Protestant Church." * * † Ibid. (Third Series) vol. xxiv. p, 15. 112 113 l. l. Robert Peel: l. 114 115 116 bona fide, l. l. 117
 Mr. Ward  had no intention to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through a variety of details, many of which would be explained and others contradicted by hon. Gentlemen who would follow him, but perhaps the House would permit him to apply himself for a short time to the principles by which alone its decision ought to be guided. He had listened to the speech of the noble Lord, the Member for Lancashire, with great attention, in the hope of discovering some alteration in the spirit of his legislation for Ireland. He found the noble Lord, however, at the very point at which he started in the year 1830, utterly regardless of the mighty changes which had been going on around him, and standing as a solitary landmark to show how far public opinion had shot beyond him. The noble Lord accused hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House with a bigoted adherence to an abstract principle. But at all events that abstract principle had never been tried. They might entertain hopes of its healing effects, but they had never tested them. The noble Lord had forgotten that he was a no less obstinate and bigoted adherent to an opposite abstract principle which had been tried and proved to be fraught with the worst consequences, not merely to Ireland, but to the welfare and religious institutions of the empire at large. Experience had shown that the Established Church in Ireland could not be maintained to its present extent, or on its present footing, without so violent an outrage being done to the feelings of the Catholics, as to render it impossible that it could ever be productive of any good effects. What said the noble Lord opposite? That the Protestant Establishment should be maintained in its full integrity, that from the tithe fund in Ireland not one farthing should be deducted for the benefit of the Catholic population, but that it should be distributed, in its locality, among the ministers of the Establishment; and that as to the Roman Catholics, in so far as they might have placed any reliance on the
 42 l. l. l. l. 43 44 l. l. l.; l.; Regium Donum l., l. 45 l. 46 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. 47 48 "That many of the accusations which have been made against the system, arise from the prejudice created against it by the members of the Established Church, seventeen out of twenty-two Bishops having pronounced against it when it was first introduced under the auspices of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire. The Orange body, too, taking up the subject hastily, unequivocally reprobated the system, calling it a mutilation of the Word of God. This declaration affected the opinions of the Dissenting ministers, and has also given rise to many of the complaints which are urged against it." "I fearlessly appeal to an inspection of the school-books; and I ask whether boys instructed out of them will not receive a good moral education—that nine-tenths of the children would not have received education any where if not in these schools, and would have become miserably mischievous, and ready for the commission of crime?" "It may naturally be asked what have the Commissioners of National Education done? Our answer must be gratifying to every friend of Ireland. The Board has been less than four years in existence; the first was employed in preparation, and yet more than 1,300 school-houses have been established, and more than 200,000 children of the poor have been educated. Therefore, in this respect, they have done more in three years than the Kildare-place Society in nineteen years! 49 "The result of the system is highly favourable; a new light has been thrown upon the Irish character. Ignorant, I know the people were—bigoted they might be—but I have ever found them accessible by kindness and sympathy." "The girls' school is under Catholic management, but, with this exception, it is faultless; the children are clean and orderly, and the books used are some of the late publications of the Board, and those who know the benevolence and zeal of the persons by whom the children are in this way educated, can only regret when they see Protestants who are not equally devoted to God's service and the best interests of their fellow-subjects." "Let the Protestant take a leaf out of the Catholic book and say ' amen;' let both parties bind such sentiments for a sign upon their hands, and as frontlets between their eyes; let them write them on the posts of their houses and on their gates, that the people of Ireland may dwell together, in future, as brethren in peaceful habitations." 50 51 52 53 "Now, I tell the House, boldly and distinctly, that the people of England are not ripe for that; and when I say that the people of England are not ripe for that, let me call upon you to pause before you assent to a resolution which you cannot, which you ought not, which the people of England will not let you, carry into effect. I did not think that I should ever live to hear a Minister of the Crown propose such a resolution—I do not think, that I yet see the Legislature that will pass it—and I am not certain that I know the Sovereign who will assent to it." * "I speak, not only my own sentiments, but the sentiments of a body of gentlemen, not insignificant either in rank or standing, or unimportant in point of numbers, in this House."† * † Ibid, vol. xxvi. p. 257. 54 55
 Sir Robert Peel : I hope the hon. and learned Gentleman is not about to quit his place.—[These words were followed by the most deafening yells and cheering from the Opposition benches, which continued for some time. Mr. O'Connell left the House for a minute or two, and returned.] It certainly is much more agreeable to a person rising to notice observations made with considerable vehemence and warmth by another, that he should have the opportunity of noticing them in the presence of that person. And as the hon. and learned Gentleman did personally suggest to me,
 85 86 O'Connell O'Connell l. 87 88 primâ facie 89 90 l. 91 92 l. 93 l. l. 94 * l. * † Ibid. p. 568. ‡Ibid. 568. 95 96 97 98 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 99 l. l. l. 100 l. maximum "Sir, a great deal has been said with respect to the number of Bishops in Ireland, as compared with the number of Bishops in England. I do not consider that, however, to be quite a fair mode of making the comparison, because the duties of the Bishops in Ireland does not depend wholly on the number of Souls in their Dioceses, but on the space over which those duties are to be exercised: the duty of a Bishop requiring the regular visitation of the different parts of his diocese." * l. l. l. * 101 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. res integra l. l. l. l. 102 l. l. 103 l. l. l. l. "Your Committee having consulted Sir William Gossett, the Serjeant-at-Arms, respecting his department, agree in opinion with the Committee of 1835, that the future establishment should consist of two door-keepers, as already recommended; of one head messenger to be designated "Assistant to the Serjeant-at-Arms," with an annual income of 425 l. l. l. l. l. 104 l. 105 " Do you think, in case the general question of Catholic Emancipation were settled by Parliament, there would be a power existing in any individual to get public assemblies together, and to create a combined operation in Ireland?" "I am convinced that it would not be in the power of any man, no matter however great his influence might be, to draw large convocations of men together in Ireland; nothing but the sense of individual injury produces these great and systematic gatherings, through the medium of which so much passion and so much inflammatory matter is conveyed through the country." "Whenever any mention is made in a Roman Catholic assembly of the evils of that measure, it is made for the purposes of rhetorical excitement, and not with any serious view, on the part of the speaker, to disturb that which, in my humble judgment, is perfectly indissoluble. In answer to the question, I beg to add this; that I am perfectly convinced that neither upon tithes, nor the Union, nor any other political subject, could the people of Ireland be powerfully and permanently excited. At present, individuals feel themselves aggrieved by the law, and it is not so much from public sentiment, as from a sense of individual injustice, that they are marshalled and combined together." 106 l. l. l. cadit questio, l. l. l. 107 108
 Sir Stratford Canning  rose to order. He protested against the use of such language to those who sat on that side of the House.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he rose to state his main objection to the Registration Bill, as regarded Births, at that early stage of the discussion, because it was of such a nature as could not, he apprehended, he removed by any verbal alteration of the clauses in the Committee. He owned he had some reluctance to explain that objection to the Committee, because it was one connected with the religious obligations, and
 133 134 135
 Mr. Goulburn : I referred only to the case of Members of that Church,—I do not wish to interfere with the Members of any other.
 Dr. Lushington  said, the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, had urged as his principal objection to this Bill that, by requiring the registry of the name of a child, prior to the administration of the rite of baptism, injury would be done to the cause of religion, and the Established Church. Now he, (Dr. Lushington) felt as much as the right hon. Gentleman the impropriety of attempting to discuss any question in this House, which had the slightest reference to matters of religion. But at the same time he must be permitted to observe, that he could not anticipate anything like that extent of evil which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to dread. He (Dr. Lushington) could not think, that the great bulk of the members of the Church of England, if they were convinced of the value of the rite of baptism would be deterred from obeying the directions of their Church, because they were required to register their children within a given period after their birth; nor could he think that such a provision could fairly be characterized as tempting the members of the Church of England to depart from the directions of their church. The only evidence he had seen, which would warrant him in ascribing to this Bill the effects which the right hon. Gentleman had ascribed to it, was the evidence of persons inhabiting the district of St. Giles. He (Dr. Lushington) thought that those persons greatly undervalued the understanding of the people of this country, and the vast increase in knowledge which had taken place during the last thirty years, who imagined that they would be at once neglectful of one of the duties which their religion imposed, and regardless of the advantages which flowed from its ob-
 140 141 142 s. 143
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he was not hostile, on the contrary, he was favourable, to a general register, and the plan he proposed would not interfere with the attaining that object. But if it could not be obtained but at the sacrifice of a religious rite, he (Mr. Goulburn) did not feel prepared to purchase it with all its advantages at such a price. It did not follow, however, that because the registers of the Church of England were to be retained, that they might not all be carried into a general Register.
 Earl Jermyn  presented a petition from Bury St. Edmund's, complaining of the appointment of some, and of the non-appointment of other Magistrates for that Borough; and his Lordship entered into a statement upon the subject, no part of which reached the gallery.
 Earl Jermyn  hardly knew whether the debate should be adjourned or not. It was very unfortunate that the noble Lord had thrown so much asperity into the debate already, because he (Lord Jermyn) had merely stated the facts that were complained of by the petitioners. He was not himself personally aware of them. In presenting the petition which had been intrusted to him by a considerable portion of his constituents, he had done no more than his duty. There was nothing in the petition which made it at all irregular or improper to present it to the House. He was sorry he had not the opportunity to communicate to the Solicitor-General his intention to present the petition to-day. He did communicate the fact to the noble Lord on Saturday last, and also on Friday. With respect to the counter-resolution, referred to by the Solicitor-General, it did not appear to him that the circumstance of the meeting being held in the absence of the mayor altered the facts of the case as stated in the petition. He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had given too much importance to the meeting at which those resolutions were passed. With regard to one statement made by the noble Lord, he begged to assure the noble Lord that this was the first time he had ever heard that any communication had been made of a wish on the part of any persons in the borough for the appointment of a gentleman of Conservative principles to the magistracy. He was aware that a wish had been entertained for the appointment of a gentleman who was neutral in politics, but not for any one of Conservative principles.
 Mr. Scarlett  supported the prayer of the petition, and referred to the case of Norwich, where the Magistrates had been
 127
 Lord John Russell  begged to assure the noble Lord that he found no fault whatever with the course pursued by the noble Lord; on the contrary, the noble Lord had given him fair notice of his intention to present the
 130
 Lord John Russell  having moved the Order of the Day for the further consideration of the Report of the Registration of Births, &c, Bill,
 Lord John Russell : Exactly. And then arises the very objection which I have just stated: viz., that the plan of the right hon. Gentleman will impose upon persons not belonging to the Church of England, the burden of a ceremony not according to their belief, or it will make necessary two separate registers:—one register, belonging to Members of the Church of England, the other, those who differ from her. With respect to the births and deaths of parties, they are matters which no doubt concern the welfare of the community, and in which no religious difference ought to be admitted: therefore, I say, there should be one register,—and that that should be a register taking notice of no religious creed, but common to all the members of the community. The right hon. Gentleman said (and I know it is an objection which is often urged against this Bill) that in as much as you ask only the name of the child and do not require the baptism to be stated, you thereby produce an impression in the minds of the ignorant, that the rite
 137
 Lord John Russell : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, has acted very properly in stating his objections at the present stage of the Bill, because undoubtedly they are objections which go to the very principle of the Bill,—the establishment of a civil Registry of Births, Marriages, and Deaths. It is the opinion of those who framed this Bill, that with respect to Births, the State ought to establish a civil registry, common to persons of all religious persuasions, not a registry of members of the established Church only; or of any other denomination, but one, in the benefits of which all might alike partake. Now, Sir, such being the object of the Bill it is quite evident, that what the right hon. Gentleman opposite proposes could not be effected without entirely foregoing that object,—without framing the Bill in a totally different way. He says, the Bill might be framed in such a manner, as that the clergyman, at the baptism, might enter in the registry the time of the child's birth. But he seems to forget, that there are a great many persons who would not be inclined to administer to their children the ordinance of baptism, according to the forms of the Church of England.
 Lord John Russell  having been particularly appealed to by the noble Lord who presented the petition, would either make his statement now or on a future day, to which the debate might be adjourned. It seemed to him rather an extraordinary course to present a petition to the House upon the subject before an appeal had been made to the Secretary of State or to the Lord Chancellor. That was the proper course; and if justice were then refused, an appeal might be made to the House of Commons. He had never heard that any want of Magistrates was felt at Bury St. Edmund's; if any were wanted, he was quite ready to add to the number already appointed. Out of the list presented by the Town-council, he had rejected three persons; the absence of one of those he had nominated might possibly occasion a temporary inconvenience. One person he had named was certainly an attorney, although his practice had been to reject attorneys when a sufficient number of respectable and competent persons could be found without them. This, however, afforded no sufficient reason for resorting to the House in the first instance. The noble Lord had not complained that the persons appointed were not respectable; and if they were not numerous, as he had said before, he was quite willing to appoint others. If the town-councils of the kingdom recommended individuals of liberal principles, he thought it would be some time before the House of Commons entertained that objection, and decided that the parties were, therefore, not eligible. During twenty years that he had sat in the House, he had constantly seen magistrates appointed from party and political motives, but he had never on this account thought it his duty to complain, as long as the individuals were persons of respectable character, and adequate to the administration of justice. Now, indeed, a different rule of conduct seemed to prevail, and a course was taken which he had
 128
 Lord John Russell  would not enter into the question raised by his hon. and gallant Friend. The Order of the Day was for proceeding with the Bill for the Registration of Births, Marriages, and Deaths, and if his hon. and gallant Friend, had any motion to bring forward, he thought it necessary for him to show that the House should not entertain that Bill, and that that proposition was of such a peculiar and urgent nature that the Order of the Day should be postponed. He did not mean to advance any argument for or against the motion, but no reason had been given why the House should not now consider the Bill which stood first among the Orders of the Day.
 Mr. Baines  said, the objection which had been raised as to the inconvenience this Bill would occasion to heads of families, fell to the ground, because it was not necessary for the parents personally to attend the Registrar, a letter, or a messenger, would convey the information equally as well. And with regard to what he might term the conscientious objection, that this Bill would encourage the omission of the rite of baptism, he (Mr. Baines) considered it would have the contrary effect; it would induce clergymen to be more zealous in laying before their congregations the importance of attending
 145
 Mr. Robinson  had given notice last week of his intention to put a question to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs relating to the commercial relations between Great Britain and Portugal. His reason for giving that notice was, that after the expiration of the treaty of Rio Janeiro on the 30th of April last, and before any new commercial relations had been entered into with Portugal, the Portuguese Government suddenly, and without notice, notwithstanding the assurance to Lord Howard de Walden, directed duties to be levied of twenty-nine per cent., instead of fifteen percent., in all the ports of the kingdom with the exception of Lisbon and Oporto. A vessel belonging to some friends of his (Mr. Robinson's) had called off the port Viana, thinking that the cargo would only be chargeable with a duty of fifteen per cent; but, being informed that it had been raised to twenty-nine per cent., it had proceeded to Oporto. This, certainly, was an extraordinary and unfriendly proceeding on the part of Portugal. He begged to ask the noble Viscount, what were the present commercial relations between this country and Portugal, for British merchants were not aware to what duties they were or were not liable?
 Mr. Robinson  added, that he had not wished to provoke a discussion; he understood the application of the observations of the noble Lord, and on Thursday next he hoped to have an opportunity of answering them. What he complained of was the breach of a positive engagement on the part of Portugal, for he held in his hand the copy of a letter from Lord Howard de Walden, in which due notice of any change in the duties was stated to have been promised by the Government of Lisbon. What had been done at Viana was without notice, and he should like to know what security merchants had for carrying on trade, if municipal bodies in different parts had the power to increase the duties? The noble Lord did not seem to know the facts of the case, or not to understand their application.
 The Speaker  decided that such a course was very inexpedient.
 Dr. Bowring  thought, that the object of the Bill had been misunderstood by those who objected to it. It had nothing whatever to do with baptism, because that was a religious act in which the whole community were not concerned, but what it had to do with was the fact of birth—a fact which was important to the whole community. What was wanted in this country was a registration of those facts with which the community were interested; the birth, the marriage, and the death of individuals. In most countries those facts were registered, so that it was easy to trace any individual from the time of his birth to his death by means of the National Register. It had been suggested that the clergy should continue in the custody of the Registers. On that point he (Dr. Bowring) would only state the following fact, given in evidence by a friend of his before the Registration Committee. At the last Revolution in France and Belgium, the clergy endeavoured to regain possession of the right of registration. But the civil registration had become so popular, so useful, so efficient, that the Legislature refused to give it them. In the present system of registration, he (Dr. Bowring) must observe, that there was no distinction made between legitimate and illegitimate children, and consequently no security to the public in cases of disputed titles to property. This Bill supplied that deficiency, and would be in his opinion of great advantage. He could not refrain from making one remark in conclusion. He had observed, (and it was the case here) that whenever opposition was made by the great body of the clergy to any measure useful and advantageous to the whole community, there was always to be found at the bottom of that opposition, something in the shape of fees or emoluments.
 Mr. Roebuck  spoke to order. The hon. and learned Member was debating on a petition.
 Mr. Pease  said, the great object of this Bill was to effect a system of registration which would be complete and satisfactory, not to any particular body, but to the community at large. He thought the Bill would effect that object. He entirely agreed in the sentiment expressed by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, that it was improper to place burthens upon the necks of one denomination of Christians, which would induce the members of that denomination to neglect a religious rite. But the same principle should be carried out to Church-rates, imposed as they were upon the members of different denominations, who had in addition to support their own religious services. He (Mr. Pease) thought the idea, that this Bill would tempt the members of the Church of England to neglect a rite of that Church, was perfectly absurd. He (Mr. Pease) could say on behalf of his denomination, that though there might be some trifling inconvenience connected with this Bill as it regarded them in particular, yet they were perfectly satisfied with it as a whole, as being a measure calculated to confer a great benefit upon the community at large, in establishing a system of universal registration.
 Mr. Potter  expressed his great satisfaction that such a measure as that before the House had been introduced.
 Mr. Estcourt  observed, that in most cases the clergyman, before baptism, inquired as to the age of the child, and who were its parents. That, however, was not, he knew, sufficient to render the registry of baptism evidence of birth; but if the Legislature would enable the clergy to register both circumstances at the period of baptism the object which they had in view would be ascertained without the complicated machinery of this Bill, which he agreed would operate to discourage the members of the Church of England from having their children baptised.
 Sir Edward Codrington  complained, that whenever he brought forward this subject, he was always met by a point of form. He should however take an opportunity of again submitting the motion before going into a Committee of Supply.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that he was anxious to bring before the House the cases of those officers who had been deprived of their half-pay without a trial, in order that they might be properly investigated. This was the only instance in which British subjects were punished without inquiry and without being heard in their defence, and in which individuals had do endure great indignity and injury, without having any means of redress in their power. The right hon. Baronet opposite had, on a recent occasion, compared the incomes received by the clergy of the Irish Church with those of the doorkeepers of the House. He was willing to admit, that the revenues of the Irish clergy were reduced to a very low ebb, but he did not consider that they had any more reason to complain in that respect than the officers of the navy. The oldest post-captain on the list, and who had held that rank for thirty-five years, was in the receipt of half-pay amounting to no more than 264 l. l., 1. l. s., l. 131 132
 Sir Robert H. Inglis  thought, that the
 138 139
 The Solicitor-General  had the honour of holding the situation of Recorder for the Borough of Bury St. Edmund's, and he regretted that he had not been aware of the intention of the noble Lord to present the petition on this occasion; because, if he had, he would have been in his place when it was first brought forward. He had received from the borough a communication, informing him that a meeting of the inhabitants of that town had been duly convened by the mayor, at which they had come to certain resolutions, which they had requested him, on this petition being presented, to state to the House. It was not necessary for him to state them at length; he would confine himself to stating the substance of them, which was this:—that the inhabitants being duly convened by the mayor, in consequence of a report that such a petition as the one now before the House was about to be presented, met, and came to the conclusion that they did not know that any public meeting of the burgesses had taken place on the subject. [Earl  Jermyn 129
 Mr. Trevor  declared, that this expense, which was obviously for a national object, ought not to fall on the parochial funds, but on the Consolidated Fund.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that although he was not officially informed that the duty at Viana had been increased from fifteen percent. to twenty-nine per cent, by the local authorities, he had good reason to believe that such was the case,
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that with regard to the particular case referred to by he hon. Gentleman, although he was not officially informed upon the subject, yet he believed that the additional duty imposed in the port of Viana had been laid on by the local authorities for local pur-
 125 126
 Mr. Poulett  Thomson was very glad that the question had been put, as it was obvious that if reports of such a nature were in circulation they could not be too soon contradicted. He had the satisfaction to be able to give the most unqualified contradiction to the rumour which he was informed had been spread through the town. He must add, that he thought there was some reason to complain of the quarter from whence the ridiculous rumour had proceeded. On Friday last it had come to his knowledge, from several communications, that such a report was abroad, and it had been traced to a medical gentleman, who had said that a case of the plague, or several cases, had occurred in London. When the rumour reached the department over which he presided, further inquiry was made, and a letter was written to the medical gentleman on the subject, to which he had sent a reply. That reply he held in his hand, and would read to the House;—
 "In reply to the inquiry made, I have the honour to state, that the report was communicated to me by a medical practitioner on Sunday week, which report I mentioned in one house only on the same day, and not since. It was not that several cases of plague had occurred at the London Docks, but that Mr. Cooke, of the house of Shoolbred and Cooke, drapers, Tottenham-court-road, with seven assistants, had died from opening a bale of goods in their warehouse, and that it was suspected they had died of the plague. The medical practitioner in question, knowing that I had paid considerable attention to the disease, which I had witnessed at Constantinople, thought that the report would interest me, and wished that I should take pains to examine the truth, and investigate the particulars of it—an object which I have not been able to accomplish, in consequence of my other numerous avocations." 167 l.
 Mr. Cutlar  Fergusson said, he was of opinion that the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for Liverpool ought to be brought in, for he agreed with him in thinking the present state of the law on this subject most unjust.
 The Attorney General  said, he should not object to the bringing in of the Bill. At the same time he did not wish to be understood as pledging himself to agree in every part of it. He thought it unjust, that facts not immediately connected with the offence for which a man was on trial, should be allowed to be given in evidence, when they would naturally create a prejudice against him in the minds of the Jury. At the late trial of Lacenaire, in France, facts had been given in evidence not in the slightest degree connected with the matter of which he was accused, but which had completely poisoned the minds of those who were to decide upon his fate. In some cases it was well known, that the Judge had the power of increasing the punishment for a repetition of the offence; in such cases, therefore, it might be necessary that the fact of a previous conviction should be known to the Judge; but he (The Attorney General) did not think it right that such a fact should be allowed to go to the Jury, tending, as it most certainly
 169
 Mr. Pryme  agreed in much that had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, but he was of opinion, that the fact of a previous conviction should not be allowed to go before a Jury to prejudice them against the prisoner.
 Major Curteis  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that there was only one observation in the speech of the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this motion in which he could concur—and that was, that he (Mr. Tulk) did indeed owe an apology to the House for bringing forward this question again after it had been decided against him in this session, when the whole question was fully entered into. The hon. Gentleman had not shown the slightest ground for mulcting the East-India Company in a penalty of 10,000 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  contended, that now the questions as to the circumstances of  The Calcutta Journal, 196
 Mr. Vernon Smith,  in answer to the question put to him, said, that Mr. Peacock, when before the Committee, at first defended the whole case, and denied that Mr. Buckingham had any claim to compensation, and afterwards, supposing that the Committee had decided that Mr. Buckingham was entitled to compensation, he went to show, that admitting him to be entitled to some compensation, it could not exceed more than 7,000 l. l.
 Mr. Anderson Pelham  wished to ask the hon. Member for Sheffield, whether he himself, or some one else using his name, had sent him under an enclosure, addressed to him, three letters, with a request that he would forward them? He thought he had understood the hon. Member to say, that he had not sent any letters, but these bore the signature of "J. S. Buckingham."
 Mr. Vernon Smith  moved for "leave to bring in a
 202 203 ex-officio
 Colonel Sibthorpe  did not rise to oppose the introduction of the Bill, but he hoped ample time would be given for its discussion, as it was a most important measure.
 Major Beauclerk  was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman, who was one of the Committee that reported in favour of Mr. Buckingham's claim, should pursue the course which he had adopted. He was surprised also that he should accuse the hon. Member for Sheffield of sending-menacing letters—an accusation so grave in its nature, that he ought to be called upon to prove it at the bar of the House or elsewhere. It was not right or fair to throw out these personalities before the House.
 Mr. Tulk  replied, that his right hon. Friend had appealed to him to withdraw his motion, a request with which he could not comply, and he could not but at the same time complain that this question, which was to have been treated as a neutral one, had been made a question of party. He could not but remark that the leader of the Government in that House was absent. He held in his hand an extract of the noble Lord's speech on a former occasion upon this subject. He did not know whether the noble Lord had paired off or not; but he knew that upon this subject he had expressed himself in the strongest manner, and that he had said, so far from attaching any blame to Mr. Buckingham, he thought his conduct highly honorable and praiseworthy, conformable to those rules of conduct and examples of freedom which ought to be held up to the imitation of his fellow-countrymen. Yet that noble Lord was not there to give the hon. Member the benefit of the expression of his opinion. He was sorry to think it; but he thought if it had been a question taken up by the other side of the House, there would have been more zeal displayed.
 Mr. Tulk  moved that the Report of the Select Committee appointed in 1834 to inquire into the claims of Mr. Buckingham to compensation be read. This having been done, the hon. Member said, that it was only from a conviction of the justice of Mr. Buckingham's claims that he ventured again to appeal to the House, in the hope of inducing them to reverse the decision to which they had come on the subject of them. The hon. Member then commented at some length upon the facts contained in the Report, and upon the injustice with which they showed that Mr. Buck-
 170 l.
 Mr. Harvey  wished to ask a question of the hon. Member for Northampton, which would, if answered in the affirmative, place the point at issue in a very narrow compass. He had understood the hon. Member to say, that the solicitor of the East-India Company, so far from concurring in the correctness of the statement made by Mr. Buckingham, estimating the damage he had sustained at 40,000 l., l. l.
 Mr. Baines  remarked, that the Committee came to an unanimous decision that
 200
 Mr. Holland  said, that he held in his hand a petition from the merchants connected with the trade to Malta; and, as it was intimately connected with that just read, he would take the liberty of presenting it now. The petitioners prayed the House to abolish the charges levied for quarantine, and to render the trade with Malta free and unrestricted. These petitioners had been often before the House on this subject, and it was only a few months ago that they had presented a memorial to the Colonial Department with regard to it. On that occasion they had experienced nothing but kindness and courtesy, and since he had come into the House that evening, he understood from the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) that it was the intention of the Government to make an alteration regarding the corn trade of Malta; indeed, he understood the hon. Baronet to say, that it was the intention of Government no longer to interfere with the grain trade of that island. It appeared from the returns on the table, that the customs' duties collected in Malta, from 1825 to 1834, amounted to 97,797 l. s. d. l. l., l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l.
 Mr. Robinson  resisted the motion, on the ground that, the House had no jurisdiction, and could not erect itself into a tribunal to decide on the pecuniary claims of any individual as against the East-India Company.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought that a moderate sum ought to be given to the hon. Member for Sheffield out of the public purse, because he had been injured by the public; but he objected to the source from which that remuneration would be provided by the resolutions, as the East-India Company was not to blame, since the Government, and not the East-India Company, appointed the Governor-General.
 Mr. Buckingham  was desirous of explaining a subject which it appeared was little understood. The hon. Baronet had adverted to a threatening letter which it was alleged he (Mr. Buckingham) had sent to the  Sheffield Iris,
 Mr. Buckingham  was not about to give his opinion on this question, and he only wished to make an observation in answer to a complaint which the right hon. Gentleman had made, that he (Mr. Buckingham) was present while this matter was discussed. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would give him leave to state that this question was now being heard judicially, and he would ask if there was
 198 Sheffield Iris,
 Mr. Buckingham : The article was not written by me, as editor, but by a correspondent, and published inadvertently.
 Mr. Poulter  supported the motion, on the ground that it was founded on the resolutions of the Committee, which had been agreed to almost unanimously.
 Mr. Richards  could not believe that the House had no jurisdiction in such a case. There could be no doubt they were fully competent to entertain the claim of the hon. Member for Sheffield, and, therefore, he was much surprised the hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith) had thought it necessary to oppose the present
 171 in limine
 Mr. Roebuck  differed from the hon. Member (Sir T. Fremantle). He (Mr. R.) thought if a man upon trial had been convicted before of a similar offence, the fact ought to go to the Jury. It might, in some cases, assist them in determining upon his innocence or guilt of the offence he was charged with.
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from Charles Vere, who had been imprisoned in Malta for having opened a school without a licence. He hoped that the petitioner's case would be inquired into.
 Mr. Hume  admitted, that the House had no jurisdiction to interfere in pecuniary matters between man and man, or between an individual and a public company, where any other competent tribunal existed; but in the present instance, there being no such means of re as, he should support Mr. Buckingham's appeal.
 Mr. Potter  expressed his great satisfaction that a measure of this kind had been introduced.
 Mr. Wakley  expressed his satisfaction at the explanation given by the right hon. Gentleman. It was the opinion of nine-tenths of the medical men in the country that the plague was not a contagious disease; but even if it were, it ought not in such a place as London to create any alarm.
 Mr. Wakley  was very desirous of putting a question to the President of the Board of Trade, and he trusted that the pressing nature of the subject would be a sufficient excuse for now interfering. He had last night been informed that five persons had died of the plague in Tottenham-court-road, and on his return home he met a gentleman in extensive practice near Bedford-square, whom he asked if he had heard of these cases, or of any others resembling the plague? The gentleman instantly answered in the negative. The report, however, was still prevalent, and had created great alarm, and it. was material, therefore, that distinct information should directly be
 166
 Mr. Ewart  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the law which admitted the fact of a previous conviction to be given in evidence to the jury in the case before them. It might be proper that the fact of a previous conviction should be urged after conviction in aggravation of punishment, but in his opinion it was most unjust to the accused,
 168
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he rose to present a petition from the clergy, nobility, and other inhabitants of Malta, praying for a redress of the grievances under which they laboured. As the subject was one of importance, he felt it his duty to state as briefly as he could the grievances of which the petitioners complained, and the remedies for which they prayed. The grievances that affected the Maltese were pretty well known in that House, as they had been the subject of several former debates there, and he trusted that the period was at length arrived, beyond which the correction of those grievances would not be delayed. There had been many instances of colonial misgovernment on the part of this country, but he would venture to say, that the hitherto ill-conducted government of Malta had been pre-eminent for its mismanagement. In no one of our colonies was to be found such a number of highly-salaried officials, whose remuneration was generally in the inverse ratio of the duties which they had to perform. The petitioners complained that they had long wanted a Council or Legislative Assembly, and that under the old Constitution of Malta they had an assembly of that description. They stated, that they petitioned the Crown some years ago for such a Council, and that a Council was established, consisting, however, of only eight persons, the majority of them holding office under the Government, and the whole of them being under Government influence and control. They stated, that this was a mere mockery of the assembly
 162 163 entrepôt 164
 Sir George Grey  would briefly state to
 165 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hogg  spoke as follows:—Having been on the spot during the whole period of the transaction adverted to, perhaps the House will kindly grant me their indulgence while I state my reasons for hoping that these resolutions may not be agreed to. I think, Sir, that, at first, a stand ought to have been made upon principle, and that the appointment of the Committee ought to have been resisted. But as the Committee was appointed, and has reported, I think the question ought to be argued on its merits; and on its merits alone I am prepared to meet it, abandoning every objection of form. I contend that the Committee have reported no facts to support their own resolution and recommendation. They and the Gentlemen opposite have treated this matter as one which consisted of one offence and one punishment, involving in its consequences the ruin of Mr. Buckingham. You are told that the Government not only sent him home, but, on his departure, adopted measures to suppress his paper and ruin his fortunes. I deny that this is correct; I deny that when he was required to leave India, Government, either directly or indirectly, said, or did anything to injure his paper, or interfere with his arrangements; and upon that issue I am willing to place the result of this motion. India and Indian affairs have few attractions, and command but little attention or interest; and I believe that, often as this subject has been before Parliament, no statement of the circumstances has ever yet been made. If permitted by the House. I will give them a narrative of Mr. Buckingham and  The Calcutta Journal. ✶ 172 No! No! 173 The Calcutta Journal. ex post facto The Calcutta Journal. 1st. Every printer of a newspaper to print his name at the bottom of the paper. 2nd. Every editor and proprietor of a paper to deliver in his name and place of abode to the Secretary to Government. 3rd. No paper to be published on a Sunday. 4th. No paper to be published at all until it shall have been previously inspected by the Secretary to the Government, or by a person authorized by him for that purpose. 5th. The penalty for offending against any of the above regulations to be immediate embarkation for Europe. Read! 174 Read! 1st. That the proof sheets of all newspapers, including supplements, and all extra publications, be previously sent to the Chief Secretary for revision.  2nd. That all notices, hand-bills, and other ephemeral publications, he, in like manner previously transmitted for the Chief Secretary's revision. 3rd. That the titles of all original works, proposed to be published, be also sent to the Chief Secretary, for his information, who will thereupon either sanction the publication of them, or require the work itself for inspection, as may appear proper. 4th. The rules established on the 13th May, 1799, and the 6th August, 1801, to be in full force and effect, except in so far as the same may be modified by the preceding instructions. The Calcutta Journal, " Circular Letter to Editors of Newspapers. "SIR.—His Excellency the Governor-General in Council, having been pleased to revise the existing regulations regarding the control exercised by the Government over the news-papers, I am directed to communicate to yon, for your information and guidance, the following resolutions passed by his Lordship in Council. "The editors of newspapers are prohibited from publishing any matter conning under the following heads:— "1st. Animadversions on the measures and proceedings of the Hon. the Court of Directors, or other public authorities in England, connected with the Government of India,—or disquisitions on political transactions of the local administration,—or offensive remarks levelled at the public conduct of the members of Council, of the Judges of the Supreme Court, or of the Lord Bishop of Calcutta. 175 "2nd. Discussions having a tendency to create alarm or suspicion among the native population, or any intended interference with their religious opinions or observances. "3rd. The republication, from English or other newspapers, of passages coming under any of the above heads, or otherwise calculated to affect the British power or reputation in India. "4th. Private scandal and personal remarks on individuals, tending to excite dissension in society. "Relying on the prudence and discretion of the editors for the careful observance of these rules, the Governor-General in Council is pleased to dispense with their submitting their papers to an officer of Government previous to publication. The editors will, however, be held personally accountable for whatever they may publish in contravention of the rules now communicated, or which may be otherwise at variance with the general principles of British law as established in this country, and will be proceeded against in such manner as the Governor-General in Council may deem applicable to the nature of the offence, for any deviation from them. The editors are further required to lodge in the Chief Secretary's office one copy of every newspaper, periodical, or extra, published by them respectively. (Signed) "J. ADAM, "Chief Secretary." 176 177 The Calcutta Journal; The Calcutta Journal, 178 The Calcutta Journal. 179 "We have received a letter from Madras, of the 10th instant, written on deep black-edged mourning post of considerable breadth, and apparently made for the occasion, communicating, as a piece of melancholy and afflicting intelligence, the fact of Mr. Elliot's being confirmed in the government of that presidency for three years longer. It is regarded, at Madras, as a public calamity, and we fear that it will be viewed in no other light throughout India generally. An anecdote is mentioned in the same letter, regarding the exercise of the censorship of the press, which is worthy of being recorded, as a fact illustrative of the calosity to which the human heart may arrive; and it may be useful, humiliating as it is to the pride of our species,—to show what men, by giving loose to the principles of despotism over their fellows, may at length arrive at." "The Governor-General in Council regrets to observe, that this is not the only instance in
 180 The Calcutta Journal O'Connell: "I shall not presume to intrude on the notice of his Lordship in Council, any observations tending to the extenuation of my conduct in this or in any previous instance, as departing from the spirit of the instructions issued to the editors of the public journals in India at the period they were exempted from the necessity of previously submitting their publications to the revision of the Secretary to Government. I shall rather confine myself to observing, that I sincerely regret my having given cause to his Lordship in Council to express his displeasure; and the more so, as there is not an individual among the numerous subjects under his benign government, who is more sensible than myself of the unprecedented liberality which has marked his Lordship's administration in general, and the immense obligation which all the friends of the press owe to the measure of the revised regulation in particular. The very marked indulgence which his Lordship in Council is pleased to exercise towards me, in remitting, on this occasion, the exercise of the powers vested in him by law, will operate as an additional incentive to my future observance of the spirit of the instructions issued before the commencement of  The 181 Calcutta Journal, nisi "Should this information be filed (as it will be almost impossible to escape coming within the strict legal definition of libel, though nothing could have been more remote from my meaning), I may be subjected to a fine of 500 l. 182
 Mr. Hogg : I think the hon. Member must be rather in error in stating that it was published, inadvertently; for in his own paper he states, as his excuse, that he published it only for confutation. These are Mr. Buckingham's own words; he published the libel only for confutation. This is a blessed doctrine for the editor of a paper! He deliberately publishes a gross and violent libel one day, that he may sit in judgment on it the next, and  ex cathedra Times, The Calcutta Journal l. 183 The Calcutta Journal, 184 "Whether the Act of the British Legislature, or the opinion of an individual shall be predominant, is now at issue. It is, thence, imperative on the duty of the Local Government to put the subject at rest. The long-tried forbearance of the Governor-General in Council will fully prove the extreme reluctance with which he adopts a measure of harshness; and, even now, his Excellency in Council is pleased to give you the advantage of one more warning. You are now finally apprized, that if you shall again venture to impeach the validity of the Statute quoted, and the legitimacy of the power vested by it in the chief authority here, or shall treat with disregard any official injunction, past or future, from Government, whether communicated in terms of command, or in the gentle language of intimation, your licence will be immediately cancelled, and you will be ordered to depart forth-with from India." 185 The Calcutta Journal. 186 "To prevent, as far as may be possible, the publication of remarks (the disrespectful nature of which may be too certainly anticipated), that this despatch will call forth, it seems necessary that a prohibition should proceed from the Secretary to Government to all editors of papers, from admitting into their columns any observations whatever upon this official document." "I have always said and thought that, as well with the liberty of the press as of the subject, it was indispensable for the safety of the empire, that the Governor-General in Council should have the power of suspending the one, and of transmitting the other, whenever the safety of the State should call for the exercise of such authority." "I am directed by the right-honourable the Governor-General in Council to acquaint you, that you are prohibited from admitting into your paper any comments on the letter from the honourable the Court of Directors, No. 37 dated 31st March, 1830." 187 The Calcutta Journal The Calcutta Journal 188 Hear! hear! 189 The Calcutta Journal 190 The Calcutta Journal The Calcutta Journal; "That if this was not a case in which the enactment of a regulation was proper, he was at a loss to conceive how any regulation could be justified by its propriety. He went further, and declared some such one to be, in his opinion, absolutely necessary." "If he had been a British subject, and committed an offence against the British Government to-day, he might be ordered to depart from the country to-morrow. Yet what is the insolent boast? That he is free from all control of Government, and amenable to this Court alone. That is, that he may print and publish anything, however seditious and destructive of the Government's authority; that he may continue such publications at pleasure; and that they cannot even be questioned until the next Session, which will be in June; and although a bill of indictment may be found against him, he may, perhaps, traverse over until October, giving him all the intermediate time to bring the Government into hatred and contempt, and to hold it in open defiance. The Government had thought proper to order Mr. Buckingham (the late editor of  The Calcutta Journal 191 "As to the property of those who might have speculated upon profit to be derived from an abuse of the Government, it stood upon a very different footing. The Government is no guarantee to such an adventure. It may truly say, " Non hœac in fœdera veni. The Calcutta Journal, 192 The Calcutta Journal, 193 The Scotsman, The Calcutta Journal, The Calcutta Journal 194 The Calcutta Journal The Calcutta Journal The Calcutta Journal. "Let every one of us boldly determine, whenever a fair opportunity offers, to send an useless resident, a wicked collector, a sleeping member of the council, &c. to the * * let us mark every favoured servant of the John Company, or rather the embryos of the future John Company; and if we cannot, then let us mark them with the signs of our vengeance. Most of us have daily hundreds of opportunities to act the part of an E—A—, and often with more impunity, or with perfect safety to our lives; if so, why should we hesitate to make a few embryos of the future John Company undergo the fate of a C— C—." "Snatch the bloohy dagger with which our tyrants incessantly wound us, and show it to them; and if the sight of the blood they spill
 195
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  agreed with what had fallen from the Attorney General, and expressed himself in favour of the Bill which the hon. Member for Liverpool asked leave to bring in.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that the present question had been already fairly and fully tried—had been decided by a competent and solemn tribunal; and now, if the present proceeding were successful, they must reconsider that decision in a totally different, and, as he would contend, irregular form, and annul it altogether. It had, on the previous occasion, been brought forward as a private Bill, and now it was to be considered in the form of a public resolution. He thought himself entitled to say, that he was as open as any Member of that House, to a claim of justice. It had been said that justice was blind, but he presumed it would hardly be contended that justice should have one eye open, and be alive only to the interests of the complainant. Justice he desired to have; but justice required that both sides should be heard. In his opinion, nothing could be clearer than that the case was strictly a private question, and he desired to know what grounds there had been laid for taking it out of the regulations according to which all private questions were discussed in that House. Then it was alleged, that the amount was of no importance; surely the amount which the hon. Gentleman, whom he was sorry to see in his place, ought to receive, was the question, or at least formed so very large and important a part of it, and was so intimately interwoven with the entire question, that no just or successful
 197 l., l. l. l.;
 Sir John Hobhouse  remarked, that so far from being a Member of the Committee which reported in favour of Mr. Buckingham's claim, he was not even in Parliament at the time.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had rather that the Jury should know the fact of a man's previous conviction than the Judge. A man was allowed to give his former good character in evidence; why should a man's bad character be concealed from the Jury, when it might assist them in coming to a right conclusion upon the case before them. In Scotland a previous conviction was allowed to be proved; why, then, should it be so great an injustice in England? In the English law, in the case of a rogue and vagabond, or one who was incorrigible,—the facts of previous convictions were to be given in evidence, as proving him irreclaimable, and he was to be dealt with accordingly. He (Sir R. Peel) must say, that he admired the French criminal law, except in one respect, that it allowed the Judge to examine witnesses, and the prisoners, for it prevented him from maintaining that coolness and impartiality which were so necessary to the administration of justice. He could not see why so great care should be taken to throw shields around the guilty, as some hon. Members appeared so anxious to do, though he admitted every endeavour should be used to protect the innocent.
 Sir T. Fremantle  was in favour of the principle of the Bill proposed to be brought in. He thought the fact of a previous conviction ought to be known to the Judge, that he might appropriate the punishment accordingly; but that it ought not to be known to the Jury, as it had a natural tendency to create a prejudice against the prisoner.
 Mr. Loch  had two petitions to present of rather an important nature. One was from the merchants and fish-curers of Wick, in the county of Caithness, and the other from similar parties in the town of Cromarty. The petitioners complained of the loss of the market which they formerly had for their fish in the West-India Islands, and of the impossibility which they found of opening new markets on the Continent. They complained especially that the markets of Russia and Belgium were shut against them. Seeing his hon. Friend, the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, in his place, and knowing that his hon. Friend was aware of the distress of the petitioners, he need not urge their case on his attention. It was most unjust, now that Belgium was separated from Holland, that the Dutch should retain the monopoly of that market.
 Mr. Loch  said, he was sure the statement of his hon. Friend would give the greatest satisfaction to the petitioners.
 Mr. Pryme  concurred in thinking that a severe penalty would defeat its object. He would move, as an amendment, that the sum of 50 l. l.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that his object was to make the Bill more effective, by having a fine that would be imposed. Did the hon. and learned Member know the facts connected with the 500 l. l., l.
 Lord Stanley  objected to this clause, as it would prevent the payment of bond  fide maximum
 Mr. Grattan  protested against the extension of this amendment to Ireland. The object of it would be to prevent the travelling expenses of the voters from being paid, and it would then be impossible to have an election.
 Mr. Heathcote  should give his most decided opposition to the proposal of the hon. Member for Bath, as it would bear very hard on the poorer class of voters, who were not able to pay their own expenses.
 Captain F. Berkeley  still considered that the effect of the clause could only be to deprive the poorer class of fishermen of their bread, and therefore he felt it to be his duty to take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 Captain F. Berkeley  said, on the ground that this clause would go, by the restriction which it enforced as to the size of the nets to be used, to inflict serious injury on the poorer classes of fishermen of this country, he felt bound to oppose it.
 Lord George Lennox  said a few words in opposition to, and Mr. Elphinstone in favour of the clause.
 Mr. Aglionby  defended the amendment, which he thought would prove very beneficial. Its object was not to prevent voters being conveyed to the poll at the expense of the candidates, because, in the present state of the election law, it would be quite impossible to prevent it.
 Mr. Labouchere  could assure his hon. Friend that the attention of the department with which he was connected had been, and still was, directed to the subject to which the present petitions referred. The Board of Trade was fully impressed with the importance, in a national point of view, of giving every encouragement and protection that it possibly could to the fisheries of the country. He had been assured that it was impossible, by any alteration or pew regulation, to remedy the
 208 s. s. d.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  would appeal to the hon. Member, whether, if his character were assailed in such a public assembly as the House of Commons, he would not be anxious to remove the slanders heaped upon it? The hon. Member then proceeded to read the following statements of Mr. M'Neale:—"Mr. Sheil made a long speech in court against me, but in the evening sent his friend (Mr. Peter Colman) to me to assure me, that he meant nothing personal in his speech, and that he hoped, if he had made use of any expressions to hurt my feelings, I would forgive it, as his speech was a political one, and meant for the people of England in favour of emancipation. Since I came of age, thirty-three years ago, I have only had occasion to turn three tenants from my property—Mills being one, and two Thompsons both Protestants, but of bad character. I defy Sharman Crawford to prove one act of oppression against me, towards
 206 l.,
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  had to pray the attention of the House to a matter, which, though not immediately connected with the petition he had just presented, was a portion of those attacks which had lately been made upon the private character of the Irish Landlords, and he hoped to be conceded that courtesy which was always extended to a Member on a question of a personal nature. The Gentleman of whom he had to speak, was Mr. M'Neale, of Carling-ford, in the county of Louth, whose character as a landlord one would have supposed was so well known in Ireland as to protect him from such factious assaults. Of this Gentleman, the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr. Sharman Crawford) was pleased to state, a few evenings back, that from political irritation against one of his tenants, who had voted contrary to his wishes, he had with his own hands set fire to and burnt the turf which the poor man had prepared for his winter firing. Now, the facts of the case which had been thus misrepresented were simply these:—Mr. M'Neale had early in the year 1826, and long before the period of the election in question, dismissed from his service, for misconduct, a man called Mills, who was a tenant on his estate, and a labourer in his employment. The turf-bog on Mr. M'Neale's property, it so happened, was the most valuable portion of his lands, letting so high as from 4 l. l. 205
 Mr. Hardy :—If the penalty be small, parties would not sue for it, for in that case they would get little more than would cover their own costs.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that if the penalty were reduced to so small a sum, it would give a great opening to bribery, for such a penalty if inflicted on a person administering the bribe, would be at once paid by the candidate
 Mr. Hardy  would move a proviso, "that nothing herein contained should prevent candidates or other persons connected with them from providing conveyances for voters to and from the poll at their election," This be hoped would meet the object proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that his chief object in the clause was to prevent any money passing from the candidate to the electors, or that any pecuniary transactions should take place between them.
 Mr. Roebuck  moved as an amendment, that the words "as a consideration in whole or in part for any loss of time in travelling to or from, or in attending at, any such election for the purpose of voting," be omitted. The hon. Gentleman said, that he did not wish by this alteration to prohibit candidates from bringing the voters up to the poll, but to prevent them from giving any distinct sum of money to any voter.
 Mr. Roebuck  must press his own amendment.—
 Mr. Roebuck  differed from the view taken by the noble Lord. The election was the business not of the candidates, but of the electors, and the candidate ought not to be asked to pay anything. The chief object of this Bill ought to be to prevent such payment.
 Mr. John Young  was quite satisfied, that if this amendment were adopted, the practical result would be that a very considerable portion of the county constituency, more especially in Ireland, would be disfranchised, as the poorer classes could not afford to pay for travelling to the poll,
 Mr. Hume  said, that if it were desired that the penalty should be enforced and recovered, it should be a moderate one; but if the penalty was a heavy one, it would not be enforced.
 Mr. P. Scrope  would also follow the same example.
 Mr. Potter  said, that it would appear, from the speech of the hon. Member for Belfast, that Irish landlords consider themselves entitled to the votes of their tenants.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that he would very briefly state his recollection of an occurrence that had taken place now more than ten Years ago. He remembered very well
 207
 Mr. W, S. O'Brien  said, that in consideration of the pledge given on the part of his Majesty's Government, he, would follow the example of the hon. Baronet, the Member for the county of Waterford, and withdraw his Bill relative to the poor of Ireland, when the proper time came.
 Sir C. Burrell  was understood to say, that there was scarcely any instance in which (he penalty of 500 l.
 Captain Pechell  said, that if the tithe were taken off the Norfolk herrings, they would beat the Dutch in the market.
 Captain Pechell  defended the clause as being absolutely necessary for the protection of the fisheries, while at the same time power was given to the Magistrates of Quarter Sessions, if they should think fit to do so, to take off the restriction with respect to the use of seine nets.
 Sir Richard Musgrave  said, that, as he understood it to be the general feeling of the House, that this subject should be brought forward by his Majesty's Government, and as he believed it to be the intention of the Government to bring for-ward a measure on the subject, he would withdraw his Bill if the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Ireland would declare in his place that the subject was under the consideration of the Government, and that it was their intention, either in this Session or early in the next, to introduce an efficient poor law for Ireland.
 Mr. Hutt  rose to order. He would appeal to the hon. Member, whether he would take up the time of the House with such statements.
 Lord Morpeth  said, he quite approved of the course taken by his hon. Friend,
 212
 The Speaker  reminded him, that it was irregular to refer to such reports.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  would then merely say, that he understood the hon. Member for Belfast had made the following statement, which he found in  The Times: 215
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said, that as the hon. Member had admitted that his description had applied to Mr. M'Neale, and as he had not disputed the correctness of the facts contained in his (Mr. Tennent's) statement, he would now merely say, that he had made that statement, and that he had been authorised to do so. As to the circumstance of its having been made in the hon. Member's absence, he would only mention that he had sent his hon. Colleague the day before yesterday to the hon. Member, to inform him that he had a charge to make against him. He came down on that day to the House for that purpose, but having been prevented from making the statement then, he took the earliest opportunity in his power to make it.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, that the hon. Member, Mr. M'Cance, had the day before yesterday told him that the hon. Member (Mr. E. Tennent) had a charge to prefer against him, but he did not specify what it was. He was in his place that evening, but no such charge was made. As it was not made then, it was not in his power to know on what day it would be preferred.
 Alderman Wood  said, if the hon. Member wished it, he was sure the House would have no objection to have it read at length. The petitioners expressed their opinion very strongly of the necessity of some change in the House of Lords.
 Sir Robert Inglis  did not consider it expedient to discuss this question now, as a more important subject was about to come before the House. He hoped the hon. Member would defer his motion to another day.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that copyright of prints and engravings published here was daily invaded in Dublin. He wished to prevent that injustice.
 Sir Robert Inglis  hoped the hon. Member would not urge the motion. He should feel it his duty to oppose it; and he was unwilling to delay the other business of the House by a discussion of this.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the opposition might have been expected to come from Ireland; but the Irish Members made no objection. They were anxious that no injustice should be done to England.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that after the second reading of the Copyright Bill last night, he should feel it his duty to divide the House on this motion.
 Lord John Russell  hoped that the hon. Member (Mr. Buckingham) would not press his motion at present.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, he would defer it, if the noble Lord requested it, but he had not heard any good reason urged on the other side why he should do so. The hon. Member then moved for leave to bring in the Bill.
 Mr. O'Brien  said, that in whatever terms the arguments upon which the Lords' amendments were founded might be conveyed—and the more soothing the language employed the more humiliating it was— the substance of that reasoning was, that Irishmen were unfitted to enjoy the same rights and privileges as Englishmen and Scotchmen. The point in debate was not whether municipal institutions were or were not the best instruments for securing the well-being of local communities—that question had been by the British Parlia-
 251 252 253 254
 Captain Berkeley  said, on a former occasion he had been taunted by the hon. Member for Kilkenny with having received hospitality in Ireland, and having voted for the Coercion Bill. He had felt it his duty
 263
 Mr. Grove Price  was unwilling to use any observations derogatory to the character of any individual Member of the other branch of the Legislature, but he must say, that the words attributed to a noble and learned Lord, as having been used by him in reference to the people of Ireland, were unworthy of any senator in his place. But he would never believe that the word "alien" was used generally; on the contrary, he would contend that it ought to be taken in connexion with the other parts of the argument—it was, he believed, mentioned in explanation of that which appeared to have been mistaken by those who raked up the early history of Ireland, without rendering it in the least degree applicable to the present measure. He regretted, then, that a noble Lord opposite should have thought it necessary to drag in the mention of such a phrase merely for the purpose of exciting a temporary feeling in the debate. It would be unfair and wrong in any course of argument to fix upon a particular expression which ought not, and which could not, with propriety, be separated from the general course of the argument. To the speech of the noble Lord opposite he had listened, as he had to other speeches on that side of the House, with patient attention, and he could not help saying that they forcibly reminded him of an anecdote which, as the noble Lord was an historian, he might probably recollect; it was not one of the middle, but rather of the later, ages;—it was recorded of the
 264 265 266 Hear 267 heart from the Ministerial Benches."
 Mr. Hamilton  said, I rise as a Representative of the city of Dublin. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, the Member for Kilkenny, may call me perhaps the representative of the Corporation of Dublin; if the fact be so, I shall not be ashamed of the designation. That Corporation had performed faithfully their political duty. Constituted originally as a link to connect the interests of the two
 271 272 l. 273
 Colonel Conolly  said, that the manner in which the Gentlemen on that side of the House, from which the hon. Member who had just sat down had spoken, conducted themselves in this debate, seemed to show that they were disposed not to take any notice of the real merits of the question, but to content themselves with stamping hon. Gentlemen on his side with unfair, illiberal, unjust, and unjustifiable motives. Hon. Members had talked a great deal about the dignity of the House, but he could not understand how that dignity was in the slightest degree preserved by applying to hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House such contumelious terms as "Orthodox Protestant agitators." That was as unfortunate an expression as ever escaped from the mouth of any man; indeed, it was difficult to know what they meant. He could not understand how the term "agitation" could be correctly applied to the course of conduct, or the style of language, of any hon. Member on his side of the House. They had only complained of the dangerous course of agitation pursued in Ireland, and were anxious to prevent fresh power being put into the hands of one for whom it was intended. The object of the measure, he contended, was to strengthen the hands of that individual. The hon. Member had characterized the old Corporations as the greatest nuisances, and now that both Houses of Parliament had agreed to abolish them,
 259 260 261
 Mr. W. Duncombe  spoke to order. It was quite contrary to the rules of Parliament to alluded to anything whatever said in the other House of Parliament.
 Lord John Russell  then rose and said: I think it will be the most convenient course, in moving the order of the day for taking into consideration the Lords' Amendments to the Bill relating to Municipal Corporations in Ireland, that I should state to the House the view which is taken by his Majesty's Ministers of those amendments, and the motion which will be made by my right hon. Friend, the Attorney-General for Ireland, in proposing the mode in' which the House should consider and deal with those amendments. Sir, I wish to do this without making any remarks which may tend to excite any exasperation upon a subject on which so much interest is felt; but at the same time I must say, that I think I should be deserting my duty if, for the sake of any compliment to the proposals of the other House of Parliament, I were to propose to barter away the privileges of this House, to diminish the rights of any portion of his Majesty's subjects, or to impair, in the least degree, the well-known principles of the Constitution. Sir, we stand upon this subject at present on the defensive. It has been the policy of this House to send
 218 219 220 "The royalists and zealous Churchmen were at present the popular party in the nation, and, seconded by the efforts of the Court, had prevailed in most elections. Not more than fifty-six members of the Presbyterian party had obtained seats in the Lower House, and these were not able either to oppose or retard the measures of the majority. Monarchy, therefore, and episcopacy were now exalted to as great power and splendour as they had lately suffered misery and depression." "Because the Bill for the well-regulation of the corporations placed the government of the towns in the right hands, which by the Bill sent up from the Lords so far from being effected by the amendments, was not so much as thought of, and that in the provisions for the appointment of the mayor and recorder, no care was taken for any other members of the corporations." 221 "Further, the amendments are repugnant to the title of the Bill, which is a Bill for the regulation of corporations, whereas the amendments do either extirpate, or, at least, new create them. The reformation contemplated by the Bill sent up to the Lords was of a temporary nature, and such as was reasonably believed would be agreeable to the times, and suitable to our trust; whereas the amendments made by the Lords were such as would be in no case agreeable to the people, or suitable to, or consonant with, our trust." 222 223 224 '"I give and I devise (old Euclio said, And sigh'd) my lands and tenements to Ned.' Your money, sir?—'My money, sir! what all! Why—if I must—(then wept) I give it Paul.' The manor, sir?—'The manor! hold (he cried), Not that—I cannot part with that'—and died.' 225 226 227 l. 1. 1. 228 1. 229 230 "It has been remarked that the citizens do not take interest in concerns which are of importance to them in consequence of the defective arrangements which have hitherto existed in the Corporations and classes of each town. In order to remedy this fault, it has been decided to make new municipal arrangements, of which the principal object is to give an independent constitution to the towns, to create in them a centre of interest to the citizens, and to grant to them a real influence over the administration of the public property, and induce in it a community of action." 231 232 233 234 "A most reverend Prelate had said last night, that the project of his Majesty's Ministers would not be accomplished; that the Legislature might make large and ample concessions, but that they would fail in the object which they had in view. Now, he saw no ground for indulging in an anticipation of that nature. He would ask why the Legislature had not been able, long before this, to frame efficient laws on this subject? It was because there had been a divided Cabinet; it was because there had been a divided Parliament; it was because there was an unwillingness on the part of Government to exert its power for the purpose of effectually tranquillising Ireland. But now there was a united Cabinet. Let them, then, do that which justice requires. Let the legislative body of the country— let the Government of the country—let all those who had influence in the country—join in one happy union, to accomplish that great object, the tranquillization of Ireland, which he thought concession alone would produce [cheers]; and if they could not effect it by that means, they could have recourse to the exercise of legitimate authority." * * 235 236 "Sir Romana potens Italâ virtute propago." 237
 Lord John Russell  again rose and said, the way in which he proposed the House should proceed, consistently with their usual forms, would be to postpone for the present the two or three first clauses, in which the amendments were not of any vital importance, and apply themselves at once to the fourth Clause, which had been struck out of the Bill. He should therefore move, that the House disagree with the Lords' Amendments to that Clause.
 Mr. Callaghan  said, that since this subject had come under discussion, he had not the good fortune to be enabled to address the House upon it further than making a few observations sufficient to explain the petitions which he had presented with respect to it. He had listened with much attention to the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, if for no other reason, because he had frequently heard the hon. and learned Gentleman make speeches to that House on the subject of Ireland, to the truth of the assertions and statements contained in which he was unfortunately never able to subscribe. But he was certainly somewhat surprised that the right hon. and learned Gentleman should have indulged, on that occasion, in the repetition of much that he had heard from him on former nights; and should have entered into the discussion of particulars and details respecting this measure, from which he might have well spared the House. The remainder of the right hon. and learned Gentleman's speech consisted of trite observations selected from some of the prints of the day; and amongst these was the assertion, which had been so often reiterated, that his Majesty's Government was forced to adopt this measure. Now he would not hesitate to state his conviction in their presence, that his Majesty's Government were not forced by anybody to adopt their present course. He should be sorry to give them his support, if he were not persuaded that they were actuated by no other feeling with respect to this measure, than a sincere desire of doing justice to his country; and so long as they continued to act in the same manner and spirit towards his country, they should have his warm support. The hon. and learned Gentleman had made a speech, garnished from the newspapers and caricatures of the day; but he rose to represent to the House the fact that he was there the representative of a large constituency that had long panted for a reform, in Irish corporations, and were now anxiously expecting a participation in municipal privileges. They had waited paitently for several years in the hope that that object would be accomplished. They had petitioned in the year 1831, praying for an extension of that corporate reform which was intended, and they patiently waited for the application of the principle of the measures which
 286 l 287
 Mr. Shaw  said, he hoped the House would not think it necessary he should follow the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. O'Loghlen) through the various matters of detail, and, as the right hon. Gentleman himself termed them, the trifling subjects to which he (Mr. O'Loghlen) had adverted; they were immaterial points, which could be easily adjusted, if once the supporters and opponents of the measure were agreed upon the important question of principle. He (Mr. Shaw), however, could not help observing, that in respect of the officers to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, the amended Bill did not make any alteration in their condition. They were offices which these parties held for life, and so the Bill left them. With regard to town-clerks and such officers, the right hon. Gentleman could not have read the 45th Clause of the Bill; for he stated that their offices were preserved to them for life, but that clause empowered the Commissioners to remove them on the 1st of January next. The right hon. Gentleman was wrong, too, with regard to 9th Geo. 4th. cap. 82, for it did not follow, but it preceded, the English Act on the same subject. The English Act, however, required three-fourths of the voters to concur in the taxation, whereas, the Irish Act gave the same power to a majority; and he (Mr. Shaw) thought to make the 9th Geo. 4th compulsory in the towns mentioned by the noble Lord, would be a
 279 1. 1. 1. 280 281 282 283 "No crime so bold but would be understood A real, or at least a seeming good." O'Connell delenda est Carthago? O'Connell 284 O'Connell Hear, hear. Hear, hear.
 Mr. Finch  said, that he was most anxious to approach the consideration of the question wholly divested of party and political feeling. While he disclaimed, therefore, all desire to treat the subject as a question of party, he could not, on the other hand, but view it as one in which the interests and welfare of Ireland were nearly concerned; and the strong wish which he felt for the tranquillity and welfare of that country would overpower any other motive in bringing his mind to the consideration of the important measure now under discussion. He confessed that, viewing the Government Bill in every possible way, and wishing to put upon it as favourable a construction as he could, he was nevertheless forced to the conclusion, that it was not calculated, either in its spirit or substance, to effect the welfare of Ireland. Since the period at which that country was admitted to a participation in the blessings of the British Constitution, she had been cursed by a system of agitation, which unfortunately existed there even up to the present hour, and he was perfectly convinced that the Bill proposed by his Majesty's Government would, under the plea of introducing corporate reform, produce ten-fold the evils it professed to remedy, and give a new impulse to agitation, discord, and outrage. He thought that it was the duty of the British
 289 290
 Sir George Sinclair  begged to know whether the petitioners prayed for a Reform in the House of Lords?
 The Speaker  having put the question,
 The Speaker  observed that it was exceedingly inconvenient to make personal observations reflecting upon the language of any individual in another place. He wished to impress upon the House, that upon this occasion it was most important that the language used in another place should not be referred to.
 The Speaker  observed, that such was the rule of the House, and he hoped it would not be violated.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  was somewhat surprised to find the hon. Member who had last spoken, and one too who represented a city containing 220,000 inhabitants, come forward and support a Bill which deprived that city of any corporation whatever. He should have expected from that hon.
 274 275 officio l.; 276 l. l. l. l. l. 277 l. l l. 278
 Mr. Dillon Browne  rose under considerable excitement, and was happy that he gave way to the hon. Member for Cork. He felt much surprised at what had fallen from the hon. Member for the University of Dublin. The great vehemence and extraordinary action of the right hon. Gentleman, he would call the histrionic speech. He had addressed the House in a manner better suited to the boards of a county than of a British senate. He was not surprised that there was much agitation and discontent in Ireland when a person holding a high judicial office in that country asked what was meant by justice to Ireland. Was it possible a judge of the land could be ignorant of the definition of the term—or was it possible that he (Mr. Browne) heard the hon. Gentleman exclaiming against the principle of a people demanding their just and legitimate rights, whilst he stated at the same time that they had no better argument to support their claim than the hacknied cry of justice? He asked the right hon. Gentleman on what purer principle of civil liberty could a people rest their claims than the great principle of equal and impartial justice? The right hon. Gentleman had indulged in one of his annual tirades against the hon. Member for Kilkenny. There were some persons who found it necessary to do so for sinister purposes. It was the tenure by which they held their seats in that House, and they did so to gratify the base and malignant feelings of the base and corrupt Corporation of Dublin. An hon. and gallant Gentleman, the Member for Donegal, had felt indignant at the term Protestant agitation. He asked the gallant Member if he had ever heard of the lay association? Was it not to agitation that the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Member for the University) owed his seat, and was it not by that system that the hon.
 288
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  presented a petition, agreed to by the electors of Fins-bury, at a meeting which had yesterday been held for the purpose of addressing that House on the Lords' amendments. They prayed that the hon. House might reject them with the disgust they deserved.
 Mr. Wakley  supported the prayer of the petition, and stated that at the meeting yesterday he (Mr. Wakley) handed a Bill containing the Lords' amendments to the people, and asked them what the House of Commons ought to do with it, upon which they tore it in ten thousand pieces. He mentioned this to show the feeling of the people on the subject.
 Mr. Wakley  presented a petition from a
 216
 Mr. Ewart  said, he had been, as every Member of the House must have been, both surprised and delighted by the dexterity which had marked the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, and the elegance of the phraseology by which he had enforced them. But acute as all the special pleading of the hon. and learned Member had been, he (Mr. Ewart) had looked in vain throughout the whole of his speech for an answer to the great argument which had been brought forward by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department—viz., that by adopting the course of legislation proposed by the Lords, you were producing gross inequality between the two nations, whereas the basis of the Union between the two countries was perfect equality. The hon. and learned Gentleman had, indeed, said, that by granting Corporations to Ireland you would make them exclusive Corporations. And he said so, because the great majority of the inhabitants of Ireland were of the Roman Catholic persuasion. Why, in a nation, in which out of 7,000,000 of people 6,000,000 were Catholics (even supposing
 255 i.e. 256 257 258
 Mr. Ward  did not mean to observe further on the subject. A defence was made, and an explanation offered, for that expression upon one side of the House—an attempt had been made to explain it away. Now he had distinctly to say, that he had heard the words used which had been referred to. An hon. Member opposite had proceeded even to argue that no such words had been used; now he had to state distinctly, that the words were applied in the manner that had been stated.
 Mr. Ward  stated, that there was one observation which fell from the hon. Member opposite in which he was disposed to concur—it was this, that the world was governed with very little wisdom. He did not see any necessity however for referring to the treaty of Westphalia to illustrate that which required no better instance than another branch of the legislature. It required no better instance than the conduct of an individual whose words appeared now to have an undue weight attached to them; for however obscure
 268
 Mr. Ward : It was not by him that the rule had been violated. He did not wish now to press that topic any further; but it had been used as an argument on the other side. He came now to consider the course which the noble Lord had proposed. The course suggested was one that he with some reluctance could be brought to adopt. What he would have wished was, that when the resolutions proposed to them, on a former discussion upon this Bill, had been set aside, and they found that those resolutions which had been rejected were again sent down to them, that the plain and simple course was adopted of refusing them. That, however, was not the line which his Majesty's Ministers had taken, and which some of their supporters would have wished them to adopt upon this occasion. It was his belief, it was his expectation, that the measure of conciliation which his Majesty's Ministers proposed, and the attempts at compromise that they made, would be rejected, if it so happened it would place them in a situation to prove that they were more in the right in the eyes of
 269 270
 Sir William Follett  was anxious to approach this subject with those feelings recommended by the noble Lord who had just sat down, although he did not know why the House, in considering whether they should agree to the Lords' Amendments made in this Bill, important as it might be taken to be, should be so peculiarly called upon to approach the question in a different temper to that in which they were bound to deal with every other subject. With due regard to their privileges he was ready to admit, although he could not think it was at all necessary for the noble Lord to quote precedents from the Jour-
 238 239 240 241 242 l., l. 243 l. 244 245 l. l. 246 l. s.; d. l. 247 "Hear," from Mr. O'Connell. "Hear," from Mr. O'Connell. 248 O'Connell: O'Connell: 249 250
 Viscount Clements  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman on the other side was somewhat indignant at the application of a term. He complained loudly of being designated "Protestant agitators," and as he progressed towards the conclusion of his speech, he became absolutely furious at the idea of their being characterised as "orthodox Protestant agitators." The hon. and gallant Gentleman was anxious, he had no doubt, to repudiate the charge so far as he himself was personally concerned; but he thought it was an excess of chivalrous feeling which prompted him to repudiate the description when applied to his Colleagues For his own part, he had felt more than indignant when he heard three-fourths of his fellow-countrymen described as aliens in blood, aliens in language, and aliens in religion, by a noble Lord, whose genealogical pretensions were founded on little that was English, either in feeling or in birth. He had no hesitation in designating such terms as these as "orthodox Protestant agitation." He believed that the declaration of the noble and learned Lord embodied the feeling and the prejudice of a party in the other House of Parliament, who were anxious to put a stop to popular government in all countries, but especially in that country to which he had the honour to belong. If that party dared to speak in public what they thought in private—if they had the manliness or the candour to give free expression to their feelings, they would admit at once, that popular government and popular control
 262
 Sir Robert Bateson , as one of the representatives for the county Londonderry, begged to offer a few remarks to the House. With regard to the grievance of which the petitioners complained, he hoped that a portion of that justice of which the House heard so much might be extended to them, and that their conduct, as magistrates, would be fully and fairly investigated. With regard to the delay which had occurred in the presentation of the petition, he had no wish to impute improper motives to the noble Lord in keeping it back; and he was sure he was but speaking the sentiments of all the Irish members who had occasion to have communications with the noble Lord, when he said that they were invariably treated with the greatest courtesy and attention. The origin of the complaint preferred by the magistrates of Derry, who signed the petition, was as follows:—Mr. Gore Jones was examined as a witness before the Orange Committee, which sat last session. That person in the course of his evidence preferred grave and deliberate charges against the magistrates in question. He accused them all of being Orangemen, of being violent party men, and, moreover, he distinctly accused them of not doing justice at their petty sessions. When the magistrates heard of this they communicated with Lord Garvagh, the Lord-Lieutenant of the county, A meeting of the
 304 305 306
 Captain Jones  coincided in all that had fallen from his hon. Colleague. The public notice which he had no doubt would be taken of what occurred that night would, he thought, be sufficient to show how completely unsupported the charges were.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, he hoped that he should not be considered presumptuous if he stated thus early his sentiments upon the question. He had been intrusted with various petitions from Catholics and Protestants praying the House to reject the Amendments of the Lords, and to those petitions he was anxious to do justice; but he required peculiar indulgence, because he could not concur in the proposition made on either side of the House. He was himself a Protestant, and naturally felt anxious for the welfare of the Church. But he could not conceal from himself that the means taken by the Protestant interest to maintain its ascendancy had been the cause of all the great evils of Ireland. The Bill as originally introduced by his Majesty's Government, went to destroy that monopoly of power in the Corporations of Ireland, which the Protestants had so long enjoyed. In the commencement of the Session an amendment was moved by hon. Gentlemen on the opposition side of the House, with the view of omitting from the Address that passage which spoke of the necessity of giving equal municipal rights to Ireland, as had been given to England and Scotland. That amendment was negatived by a majority in this House, but a similar amendment was adopted by a still greater majority in the other House. Ministers afterwards introduced a Bill which went to establish fifty Municipal Corporations for Ireland. That Bill was sent up to the Lords, though it was known that the Lords would reject it. The Lords did not reject the whole Bill, but they rejected its principle by abolishing all Municipal Corporations in Ireland. But now his Majesty's Ministers proposed that twelve towns shall have Municipal Corporations instead of fifty; thus annihilating no less than thirty-eight Corporations. He asked whether this was sustaining the decision of the House of Commons, or whether it was not rather admitting that the Peers had been right? The twelve Corporations were to have mayors and town-councils, but the
 309 O'Connell "Hereditary bondsmen, know ye not, Who would be free, themselves must strike [the blow." 310 311
 Mr. Grote  was anxious to offer a few observations to the Mouse on the subject now under discussion, and wished the
 317 318 319
 Mr. Richards  could not refrain from giving expression to the surprise which he felt at hearing the hon. Member for Lon-
 320 321  per fas et nefas 322 pro hdc vice 323
 Mr. Wyse : The hon. Member who has just sat down has, as a matter of course, professed an extraordinary love for Ireland. It forms the beginning and end of most of his speeches. He is deeply solicitous for her prosperity—he is more Irish than the Irish in calling for ample and universal justice; but when we ask for deeds, we find he has been giving us shadows. His love is purely abstract, his solicitude theoretic; he would do justice to the country generally; but the moment we point out some specific case or spot where this general zeal may be displayed, we are immediately told that we have hit upon the precise instance where an exception should be made, and where the justice we call for would be impossible. Why, what is this but adding insult to injury—trifling not only with our feelings but our intellects? The hon. Gentleman may take upon himself the character of Member for all England, and what is still more preposterous, for all Ireland—(why did he omit Scotland?) — but I doubt much whether the inhabitants of his own borough would recognise., if he were this moment to question them, either the insult or the absurdity. The hon. Member respects the other branch of the Legislature. So do I. I respect the Lords much, but the Commons more. The hon. Member dreads and deprecates these differences. So do I; but not like the hon. Member—I would end, or at least mitigate, instead of exasperating them. To talk of respecting the Lords, while the hon. Member advocates measures which must inevitably bring the Lords into public odium and contempt—to talk of avoiding collisions by requiring all concessions from one side and applauding al resistance on the other, is a species of logic which it required the very peculiar reasoning powers of the hon. Member to have been guilty of. In one thing I thoroughly agree with the hon. Member. This is a most momentous
 324 325 municipia 326 327 ex-officio 328 a fortiori, l. 1.; 329 330 331 332
 Mr. Praed  said, it was once an honour and a satisfaction to be engaged with an adversary who, like the hon. Member for Waterford, acted fearlessly on his own notions of right and wrong. In a contest with such an adversary victory must be without exultation, and submission without shame. He gave the hon. Member for Waterford credit for sincerity in the views which he had expressed to the House. They had been told by the hon. Member, that if the measure of the Government was rejected the cry for municipal reform would not cease, but it would be coupled with a cry for reform of the House of Lords, and the hon. Member had expressed himself on that subject in terms loud and strong. To Gentlemen of the country to which the hon. Member belonged—much on account of a prevailng feature in the national character, and partly on account of a warmth of feeling which, on such a subject as this, was to be expected from them—it was conceded that they should use stronger language than might be expected to fall from other Members of that House. But from an English Member he had looked for much solid and grave argument on a question which confessedly involved consequences so important to the national welfare. The hon. Member for London had disappointed those expectations. He could understand that an Irish Member who represented all the warmth, as well as all the wisdom, of Ireland, should use expressions such as that the House of Lords was opposed in spirit to the people, that they did not care for the people, that they must be reformed as the Augean stable was reformed, and that when on another occasion it was proposed to turn the river through the House of Lords, the reply was that it would be better to turn the House of Lords into the river; such expressions as these he could understand coming from an Irish Member; he could understand that hon. Member when he represented the House of Lords as the spirit of evil in the Constitution; but he could not comprehend the propriety of such expressions when falling from an English Member. He would submit to the hon. Member for London, who had condescended, in discussing a grave constitutional question, whether it were proper to use language such as no English Mem-
 333 334 335 A laugh. 336 337 338 339
 Viscount Ebrington  would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman who had last spoken through all his various matter, nor enter into any discussion with him as to the working of the English Corporation Reform Bill in the particular place which the hon. and learned Gentleman represented. He could assure the House, that in the few observations he had to make he should confine himself strictly to the subject before them; and he would add, though he could not share with the hon. and learned Gentleman the deference which he had expressed to the amendments of the other House, he should at least abstain from anything like vituperation of the authors of these amendments. It was his feeling that the language of both Houses, in reference to each other, should be that of respect and conciliation; and however freely he might discuss the measures emanating from the other House of Parliament, he should always think it incumbent upon him to speak in terms of respect of the authors of these measures. In the course of the debate, nearly every hon. Member on the opposite side of the House had enlarged upon two topics in reference to the subject before the House— namely, the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, and the Repeal of the Union. It was not his purpose to enter into a vindication of the hon. and learned Member from the taunts which had been so plentifully thrown out against him, nor should he enter into any discussion as to the Repeal of the Union, a proposition of which he was one of the very last men in the House who could be charged with being a supporter. At the same time he must say, that with the opinion he entertained with respect to this Bill as it now stood, he felt that if he could conceive it possible that such a measure should pass into law, though he did not say that even such a result would make him the friend or supporter of repeal, yet he would say that such a measure, if it were passed into a law, would afford full justification for the language of those who should say that such an Act presented sufficient grounds for demanding repeal. He was old enough to remember something of the grounds upon which the Union was proposed, of the
 340 "If there be a country which, against the greatest of all dangers that threaten its peace and security, has not adequate means of protecting itself without the aid of another nation; if that other be a neighbouring and kindred nation, speaking the same language, whose laws, whose customs and habits are the same in principle, but carried to a greater degree of perfection, with a more extensive commerce, and more abundant means of acquiring and diffusing national wealth; the stability of whose government—the excellence of whose constitution, is more than ever the admiration and envy of Europe, and of which the very country of which we are speaking can only boast an inadequate and imperfect resemblance; — under such circumstances, I would ask, what conduct would be prescribed by every rational principle of dignity, of honour, or of interest? I would ask whether this is not a faithful description of the circumstances which ought to dispose Ireland to a union?—whether Great Britain is not precisely the nation with which, on these principles, a country, situated as Ireland is, would desire to unite? Does a union, under such circumstances, by free consent, and on just and equal terms, deserve to be branded as a proposal for subjecting Ireland to a foreign yoke? Is it not rather the free and voluntary association of two great countries, which join, for their common benefit, in one empire, where each will maintain its proportional weight and importance, under the security of equal laws, reciprocal affection, and inseparable interests, and which want nothing but that indissoluble connexion to render both invincible?" 341 "Non ego nee Teucris Italos parere jubebo, Nee nova regna peto; paribus se legibus ambæ Invictæ gentes seterna in fœdera mittant." 342
 Mr. Horace Twiss  thought, that if any one thing more than another showed the necessity of that useful rule of the House which had been established against introducing allusions to what passed in the other House, it was the course taken in the present debate; because attacks had been made upon particular speeches from time to time, to which it was impossible for the noble personages impugned to offer any reply, or give any explanation of the words attributed to them. But all the inconvenient results of that course must fall upon the heads of those who had thought proper to indulge in such attacks. The noble Lord who had just addressed the House, had not been content with the usual strain of condemnation, poured out upon those who opposed him, but he had evoked from the shades of the grave one of the greatest statesmen England had ever produced, in order to convert his recorded eloquence into a weapon against those who did not think fit to support the course taken by the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department. But was it not the constant practice of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny to inveigh against the English people, not merely as usurpers and tyrants, but as Sassenachs? The hon. and learned Member might be justly called the originator of the offensive expressions, if to describe others as aliens were offensive. Hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House had been in the habit of stating that seven centuries of misgovernment had brought the population of Ireland to a state of comparative barbarism in some respects, and absolute ignorance in others, and therefore they had called upon the House to provide, not from the ordinary funds of the State, but from the funds of the Church, means to check and remove that ignorance and barbarism. Now, it was upon the very fact which those hon. Gentlemen thus admitted, that he said corporate rights ought to be exercised only by men who had arrived at a state of intelligence and civilization, which would render them capable of appreciating them. The hacknied cry of "justice to Ireland" had never been properly explained. Must that which was justice to England necessarily be so to Ireland? Would any sound constitutional lawyer tell him that there was anything in the common law of the land to give the right of exercising the corporate franchise to any town whatever? He wanted to know how it could be shown
 344 345 346
 Mr. Gisborne  hoped the House would not be led, by the extraneous nature of the several matters which had been introduced into the debate, to depart from the consideration of the real question before it, which was, whether or not they should agree to the alterations which had been made in this Bill in another place. These alterations were totally destructive of the principle of the Bill as sent up to the other House, and were a studied insult to the people of Ireland. They proposed to destroy all the municipal rights and institutions now existing in Ireland; and on what ground? Why, because a great portion of the Irish people professed a particular creed. The Lords might have done the business in a much shorter way. They
 347 The Quarterly Review? "Ingenuas didicisse fideliter artes, Emollit mores, nee sinit esse feros." artes ingenuœ The Quarterly Review, "Why has not Mr. O'Connell, who, like Hotspur's starling, speaking nothing but Mortimer, scarcely utters any sound, in or out of Parliament, but "justice for Ireland;"— why has he not been formally called upon to make out a. specific list of the grievances he effects to be lamenting? The substantial justice which Ireland has long required, was ten years' subjection to martial law, under such an officer as Cromwell, whose strictness and impartiality would have thoroughly habituated the country to peace and good order." 348 "A course of discipline of this sort would soon put an end to the murders in Tipperary, and the turbulence of fathers M'Hale, Kehoe, and Maher, for ever." "It has long been the misfortune of Ireland to have institutions forced upon it in imitation of those of England, for which it was obviously unfit. The justice which Mr. O'Connell and his followers want is of a very different sort." 349
 Mr. Henry Grattan : The right hon. Member for Tamworth says, that on that subject allowance must be made for Irish feeling. We do not require it; but he requires that allowance should be made for his insensibility. The case of the corrupt voter at Tamworth occupied his speech much more than the rights and privileges of the people of Ireland. Sir, it is difficult to know where to begin, still more so where to stop; and I know not whether I am to address you as a free
 350 l. l. 351 l. l. l., l. l. l. 352 353 354 355
 Viscount Sandon  denied, that the corporate property in Ireland was more than 50,000 l. 356 Quarterly Review,
 Mr. Sheil  observed, that to the noble Lord opposite he should make this simple observation—the town which that noble Lord represented was within twelve hours' distance of Dublin. Now what would the noble Lord think, if the extraordinary proposition were made to him, that a corporation was to be continued in Dublin, and refused to Liverpool. [Lord  Sandon: 357 Circum spice. compact Laughter. 358 359 "I agree, Sir, with the hon. Gentleman, that something is necessary to be done; but the rule I should lay down upon the subject is a very plain one. As, I presume, the House of Commons is not so reduced as to abjure what its Members have declared to be necessary principles, to rescind their deliberate resolutions, and to throw away as waste paper that Bill which they have so much and so carefully considered, merely because in a certain assembly, which, for many reasons, is entitled to our respect, they did not happen to be entertained with that courtesy which might have
 360 * "Yet time serves wherein you may redeem Your tarnished honours, and restore yourselves Into the good thoughts of the world again: Revenge the jeering and did sained contempt Of this proud King." * 361 No. 362 363 364 Ruat cœlum, fiat justitia. ruat cœlum fiat justitia 365
 Sir R. Peel  felt under a double obligation of making an apology to the House for offering himself to its notice. He felt that the subject had been completely exhausted, and the hon. and learned Gentleman must have risen under the same impression; for, although his speech abounded in much lively allusion, much personal comment, and much eloquent declamation, yet not one single approach to argument did the hon. and learned Gentleman discover throughout the whole of it. He felt, as he before said, a double obligation to apologize to the House on the present occasion, not only on account of the exhausted state of the House and of the subject, but because the hon. and learned Gentleman had read so long an extract of a speech of his, that he was
 366 367 * * 368 * * 369 370 l. l. l. 371 372 373 Ingenuas didicisse fideliter artes, Emollit mores, nee sinit esse feros. 374 375 Sic fortis Etruria crevit. 376 377 378 379
 Viscount Howick  said, that at that hour of the night he undoubtedly felt great reluctance in presenting himself to the House, but he hoped that the engagement to which he would bind himself, to adhere as strictly as he possibly could to those parts only of the speech of the right hon. Baronet which bore directly and immediately on the question now before the House, would induce them to allow him to occupy a very small portion of their time. He must be permitted, in the first place, to say one word, and but one word, on the observations made by the right hon. Baronet at the outset of his speech, upon the explanation afforded by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, of a speech made by him in Ireland some time ago. The right hon. Baronet had very dexterously endeavoured to show, that
 380 381 Robert Peel Robert Peel 382 383 l. 384 l. l. l. 385 386 387
 Mr. O'Connell  entreated the House to bear with him, since, though he was extremely unwilling to trespass on their attention, yet he did not know that he could properly avoid it. He might have an appeal to make to the people of England, and he could not make that appeal to them without having first tried what he could do in the House. It might be little, but he was the advocate of his country, and it was his duty to make an appeal to that
 388 389 390 391 locus penitentiœ. 392 393 394 395 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. Gil Bias, 396 d. 1. Question. Read, read, fiat justiiia, ruat cœlum, 397 1. 398 399
 Lord Stanley  thanked the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, in the name of the House, and also in his own name, for having, by the speech which he had just delivered, rendered it unnecessary for him to detain the House longer than a single minute. For the hon. and learned Member—he who for the twentieth time this evening had commented on an expression which he was not prepared to vindicate or concur in—the hon. Member who had commented on what he had been pleased to call the intemperate language of that side of the House—he from whom language had issued respecting that House, which he would not insult it by repeating—the hon. Member from whom he had heard that language come the other day respecting that noble and learned Lord on whose expressions the hon. and learned Member had been that night commenting; the hon. Member whom he had heard, used language which had been reported, but which he would not pollute an assembly of gentlemen by repeating, because he knew that no gentleman could have used it. The hon. Member thus commenting upon an expression, of which he (Lord Stanley) would not be the apologist, used throughout his speech on this question no one argument, no one reason, no one plausibility of argument; for the whole of his speech from first to last had been a tissue of personal attack on one gentleman after another, on
 400 cheers, particularly from Mr. O'Connell O'Connell 401 locum tenens 402 Mr. Ewart dissented. 403 404 Loud cheers. 405
 Lord Ashley  begged to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether it was the intention of Government to take any further proceedings in the Factory Bill?
 Lord John Russell  said, that the House could not, according to previous practice, rest satisfied with less than the assurance now required from the hon. and gallant Member. The absence from his place of the hon. Member for Ipswich could not alter the case, and unless the hon. and gallant Member opposite (Sir F. Trench) gave the assurance required of him by the Speaker, the only course left was to move the committal of the hon. and gallant Member into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms. He trusted, however, that the hon. and gallant Member would obey the instructions so properly given him from the Chair.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that after what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member, there remained no other step than to place the hon. and gallant Member under restraint. He should therefore move that Sir F. Trench be now taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that he had allowed the measure to drop, it not being the intention of Government to persevere with it. After the division of the other night, it seemed to them that it would be extremely difficult to carry the Bill; and if it were finally carried, it would only be against the sense of so large a body of the House, as to render any effort of the kind
 307
 Mr. Lambton : I rise to order, and to suggest, that in the absence of the hon. Member for Ipswich, it would be better to abstain from any statement as to what has taken place.
 The Speaker : The House having had this matter reported to them, are bound to take cognizance of the facts. The hon. and gallant Member being in his place, I call upon him, without entering into the question, to give his assurance that he will not, so far as he is concerned, be a party to any hostile proceedings in consequence of what has occurred between himself and Mr. Wason.
 The Speaker : I must once again call on the hon. and gallant Member for Scarborough to give the assurance which the House expects from him.
 The Speaker : In consequence of the Report which was read at an early period of the evening by the hon. Member, the Chairman of the South Durham Railway Committee, of a circumstance of a personal nature which had taken place in the morning, whilst he was attending on that Committee, between the hon. and gallant Member for Scarborough and the hon. Member for Ipswich, I deemed it my imperative duty to call on the hon. and gallant Member shortly after he had taken his place, to give his assurance that, as far as he was concerned, no further steps in the matter should be taken until both hon. Members were before the House. The hon. and gallant Member stated, that he had put himself in a position which did not require, he apprehended, any further step on his part relative to the dispute which had occurred between himself and the hon. Member for Ipswich. Anticipating the arrival in his place of the hon. Member for Ipswich at some subsequent period of the evening, I thought proper, until then, to let the affair rest, with the view of requiring from both the hon. Members the full assurance which the House had a right to expect, and which, for the sake of its honour and integrity, and the perfect freedom of its discussions, it has ever been its custom to demand on such occasions. As, however, the hon. Member
 411
 The Speaker  said, I beg leave, before the House proceeds to any further business, to draw their attention to the special Report, which has been this day made, from the Committee on the South Durham Railway Bill.
 The Speaker : Of the two hon. Members who were ordered by this House to attend in their places forthwith, one hon. Gentleman, the Member for Scarborough, is now present. I am informed that a messenger has been sent to the residence of the hon. Member for Ipswich, and not finding him at home, the messenger has been directed to wait his return, that he may serve him with the notice to attend in his place forthwith. In the mean time it is my duty, without entering upon the merits of the question, to call upon the hon. Member who is in his place, to give the House an assurance that, as far as he is concerned, the affair shall not proceed any further until both Members are in their places in the House.
 Mr. Ingham  said, that it had been understood by him and other Members of the Committee, that the misunderstanding which had taken place between the hon. and gallant Member for Scarborough and the hon. Member for Ipswich had originated in error, and he therefore thought that the matter ought now to be terminated, especially as the hon. and gallant Member for Scarborough had since heard nothing further from the hon. Member for Ipswich. He thought the affair might be terminated with honour to both parties, by the hon. and gallant Member conceding, and in expressing that opinion, he believed he was only giving utterance to the sentiments of the whole of the Committee.
 Sir Frederick Trench  expressed his regret that he could not do so. He was surrounded by many Members of the Committee, who concurred with him in thinking that he was right in the position he had taken with respect to the question which had been submitted to their consideration. He knew not, he repeated, what the intentions of the hon. Member for Ipswich were, but he could state, that the hon. Member for Northallerton had told him that he had reasoned with the hon. Member for Ipswich upon the matter, and that the hon. Member for Ipswich had said he would take no steps until to-morrow morning, when an explanation might take place. In this the hon. Member for Northallerton could, if he were present, corroborate him. He (Sir F. Trench) was ready to pay on this, as on all occasions, every respect to the Chair, but he would rather incur the displeasure of the House than risk his own self-condemnation.
 Sir Frederick Trench : I have no difficulty whatever, Sir, in submitting myself to your judgment and that of the House; and I have double pleasure in doing so on this occasion, because I have already put myself in a position which does not re-
 308
 Sir Frederick Trench  said, that he felt himself placed in a most painful situation. In obedience to the Speaker's order he now attended in his place, and he had already stated that he would take no further notice of the matter. He had manifested no hesitation in giving that assurance, because he believed that he had already stated, that he stood in that position which did not render it necessary for him to take any further steps. Having done thus much, he appealed to the Chair, and to every hon. Member present, whether he ought to be called upon to give any further assurance. What the intentions of the hon. Member for Ipswich (who was not in his place) were, he knew not, but he hoped to be allowed to state shortly to the House the circumstances out of which the matter had arisen. [ No, no.
 Sir Frederick Trench : I will briefly state to the House the circumstances as they occurred, and the position in which I am placed. The hon. and learned Member for Ipswich had made a very absurd motion in the South Durham Railway Committee, a resolution which, as it appeared to me, was not only very absurd—
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, there could
 412
 Sir George Clerk  said, that many paper-makers in Scotland had very large stocks on hand. There was one individual within his own knowledge, who had no less than 15,000 reams; and if this paper which had paid the whole duty, remained on hand until October, and then had to be sold at a reduced price, without any allowance of drawback, he need not say, that the loss would be very great. He hoped his right hon. Friend would allow some drawback on paper that had paid the whole duty.
 Dr. Lushington  opposed the amendment.
 Dr. Lushington : The great principle of the Bill, and the principle which he advocated, was this, that marriage was a natural fight, to which all the subjects of this land had a full and complete title, and that the
 492
 Mr. Arthur  Trevor contended that making marriage a civil contract would be
 494
 Mr. Pryme  saw no hardship whatever in requiring some religious ceremony in addition to a mere legal contract, or at most some declaration of a conscientious objection on behalf of the party.
  Mr. Miles  contended, as the clause stood, that it would tend to encourage clandestine marriages.
 Mr. Law  objected to the Bill as a proposed gratuitous desecration of the marriage rite. He did not think that it would be at all uncharitable to impose the restraint of a religious ceremony upon Dissenters.
 Lord Ashley  called the attention of his Majesty's Government to a fact which he stated on the authority of a Yorkshire paper. It appeared in that paper according to the confession of the masters themselves, that five boys, of between twelve and fifteen years of age, had been made to work for thirty-four hours successively, in a shocking hole, devoted to the tearing up of woollen goods; the atmosphere of it was so noxious and offensive, that the men who worked in it were obliged to wear handkerchiefs tied over their mouths to prevent their inhaling the foul air. The fact was proved before the magistrates, and the masters, Messrs. Ibbetson, Battley, and Co., were convicted
 490
 Lord Francis Egerton  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer at what period it was proposed that the new duties on paper should come into operation, both as regarded the first and second class paper, and the stained paper, and also whether he contemplated allowing a drawback on the stocks in hand?
 Lord John Russell  would take care that the inspector of the district should make every inquiry, and that his report should be communicated to the House.
 Lord John Russell  said, they were now merely restoring some of the original clauses.
 Lord John Russell  said, the great prin-
 488
 Lord John Russell  said, that the great object of the Bill was to allow every person to be married according to whatever form his conscience dictated. Here were first members of the Church of England, next the Dissenters, who considered marriage a religious ceremony, and preferred being married in their own chapels; the first were left in their present situation; the second were permitted to carry their wishes into effect. There were other classes of Dissenters who considered marriage not a religious but a civil ceremony. Taking the broad principle of religious liberty, he felt that they were bound to provide for all these classes; he did not think that the House had a right to tell one class of men that their scruples were just and reasonable, and to refuse to judge of those of others. If the Bill were carried with that clause, he would admit that he entertained no doubt but that ninety-nine marriages out of one hundred would still be considered as religious ceremonies. Although the number of marriages celebrated upon any other principle might
 493
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had no objection to appointing a Commission to inquire into the validity and nature of the various registers kept by the Dissenters.
 Lord John Russell  moved, that the Speaker do call on both the hon. Members to rise in their places, and give an assurance to the House that the affair between them should not be carried further.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to know what was doing, as he really could not understand it. He was bound to suspect every measure or amendment proposed by the other side.
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to the measure being thrust upon the House in what he called so unfair a a manner. One single word introduced into a clause might overturn the constitution of the country; therefore he objected to the measure being proceeded with in such a way.
 Mr. Baines  considered, that there would be great weight in the objection made by the hon. Member, if it were imperative upon the Dissenters that their marriages should take place as a civil contract. Under this Act, it was optional with them to have the marriage celebrated as a civil con-tract, or under a religious sanction. It being optional, all objection was removed. The Bill of the right hon. Baronet was objected to, because there was too much of the civil contract enforced with respect to the marriages of the Dissenters.
 The Speaker : If the hon. Gentlemen,
 487
 Dr. Bowring  observed that, with the understanding that a Commission should be appointed to inquire into the subject, he would withdraw the clause.
 Dr. Bowring  moved an amendment, that instead of twenty householders attending a dissenting chapel being required to sign a certificate, to have it licensed for the purpose of marriages being celebrated in it, the certificate of ten householders should be sufficient
 Dr. Bowring  then proposed the Clause of which he had given notice, for the purpose of allowing the registers of the Dissenters, which were at present kept at considerable expense, to be received by the Registrar- General.
 Mr. Hardy  conceived that by the Bill marriage was converted into a mere civil contract. All that was required was, that some ceremony of marriage should take place in a registered building, which had been certified by twenty householders to be a place for religious worship.
 Mr. Poulter  objected to this Clause. It was a Clause that separated the contract of marriage from what it always had previously in this country, the sanction of a religious ceremony. The members of the Church of England, he was sure, would not accept of such a Clause, and he believed that the Dissenters were not prepared to accept it, as they had last year refused to accept the Bill of the right hon. Baronet, which permitted these marriages to take place as civil contracts. Many of the Dissenters, he knew, were desirous of retaining the religious sanction for their marriages, and their feelings were alone exerted against it by the undue and obnoxious restrictions imposed by the old Marriage Act. In this case, as in others, the extreme restrictions had driven to violent principles and extreme theories, which otherwise they would never entertain. He hoped the noble Lord would permit this Clause to be expunged from the Act.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson : If they did not see what the alterations were, they might as well leave the House.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  was understood to say the amendments were not printed, and that it was intended to move the re-introduction of certain clauses which had teen rejected by the Lords. He was ready, however, to afford every explanation.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  hoped that the House would not adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury, which, if adopted, would destroy the principle as well as the utility of the Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had to inform his noble Friend, in reply to the question he had put to him, and he hoped it might reach the parties interested, that the proposition he had submitted for the alteration of the duty on the first class paper, would take effect from the October quarter. This was his original intention and statement in submitting the proposition, but, inasmuch as it had been somewhat misconceived, and not, perhaps, as generally known as might have been wished, he was very well pleased to have an opportunity of re-stating it. With respect to the stained paper, he had been very much pressed by a great majority of the parties interested in that branch of the trade to fix an earlier period for the proposition taking effect, by substituting the July for the October quarter. He believed this would be very convenient for the trade itself, as otherwise, stained paper being rather a matter of luxury than of necessity, there might be an interruption to the manufacture. With respect to allowing a drawback on the stock in hand, he thought it was more just and expedient to adhere to the principle on which Parliament had of late years acted in making alterations of duty, and not to allow a
 489
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that this would be in fact allowing a drawback on the stock in hand. This he could not consent to, because it could not be done without exposing the revenue to very considerable loss.
 Sir Frederick Trench  was desirous of laying before the House a simple statement of the facts; and after some opposition each hon. Member entered into an explanation of the personal difference which had occurred between them in the South Durham Railway Committee. A lengthened discussion ensued, which at length ended by the two hon. Members accommodating their difference by a little mutual retractation, and the matter ended.
 The Attorney-General  objected to the Clause, on the ground, that the registers of the Dissenters might be in many respects, inaccurate and calculated to mislead.
 The Attorney-General  thought, that it was absolutely necessary that there should be some ceremony which would make it known to the world that a marriage compact had been entered into between parties. He did not think that the adoption of the alterations that had been suggested from the other side of the House would be at all advisable.
 Sir Robert Inglis  decidedly objected to the Clause. With the single exception of the time of the great Rebellion, there was no one instance in the history of the country, of marriage having been considered otherwise than as a religious ceremony. This was a solitary attempt to give a civil character to a religious contract.
 Sir R. Peel  said, it appeared to him that all the Bill did was to enable the marriage ceremony to be performed in a registered building; but that it did not require any religious ceremony. He required a civil contract, as an essential condition of marriage, trusting that there would always be some religious ceremony, being unable to define what it should be; but wishing that it should be in accordance with the conscientious belief of those who engaged in it. He wished to have one point distinctly understood. Supposing both parties were members of the Church of England, was it intended in their case to dispense with the rite of marriage according to the Established Church? He hoped, and fully believed, that it was not intended. He did not consider that he had any right to interfere with the solemnization of marriage by the Dissenters; but he was very anxious that the effect of the Bill, with reference to members of the Church of England, should be fully understood.
 Sir R. Peel  thought he imposed no invidious task upon the Dissenters when he required that such of them as objected to marriage being considered a religious ceremony, should state their objection upon the register. This was really one of the most important parts of the Bill, and he trusted the House would arrive at no hasty decision upon it.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, this was utterly unintelligible. After the debate which had taken place, and the decisive majority that had followed, he did not intend any opposition of a vexatious character. But in a Bill of such importance, they ought to see what they were doing. He hoped the amendments they were making would be printed, so that they might see what they were about.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, as they were legislating on a matter of such importance, that it would be most desirable that all the alterations should he printed.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to know whether the amendments the hon. and learned Member meant to move, were amendments upon the Lords' amendments, and whether they were printed, because they could do no more than deal with the Lords' amendments.
 Mr. 0'Connell  contended, that there was no liberality in compelling these poor people to acknowledge his title by paying him  2d. or 3d. 507
 Mr. John Abel Smith  rose to call the attention of the House to a circumstance peculiarly and personally affecting him. He alluded to the irregular and improper manner in which he had obtained admission into the House on Friday night, so as to have his name inserted in the list of the majority in the Division. He was aware that it could not be retained on the votes, and he admitted that he had transgressed a rule which it was of great importance to observe. He could palliate it only by the great anxiety he naturally felt to be present, in order to record his opinion upon a question of so much magnitude. In his cooler moments he deeply regretted the course he had taken, and through the Speaker begged to express his sincere contrition. He must, however, after apologising for himself, bg the attention of the House to the case of the messenger (Bailey), through
 509
 Mr. Aglionby  bore strong testimony to the good character of the messenger, who came from the same county as himself. The offence he had committed arose out of his extreme obligingness of disposition; and he hoped that the Speaker, yielding to the sense of the House, would take no further notice of the transaction.
 The Speaker : This being a matter bearing upon the privileges of the House, and looking to the position in which I stand on this occasion, I am sure the House will feel I should be wanting in respect to them, and injustice to my own feelings, if I did not immediately take the opportunity of dismissing any individual who has so misconducted himself in violation of its established rules. I can assure the House that I was not aware of what had occurred, until my attention was drawn to the matter by the hon. Baronet (Sir George Clerk).
 Mr. Aglionby  felt much disappointment at what had fallen from the Speaker, after the House had expressed its opinion that no further punishment should be inflicted on the messenger.
 Sir James Graham  observed, that the messenger came from the county he represented, and that he bore an irreproachable character. The rules and orders of the
 510
 Mr. Wynn  was of the same opinion, and in the name of the House entreated the leniency of the Speaker.
 The Speaker : I can assure the House, that I feel it is not for me to hesitate in complying with their wish, but that, on the contrary, I feel it to be my duty to give effect to the general sentiment of the House. I feel, however, that a sense of duty to myself, as well as my sense of duty to the House, require that I should not retain this individual, or any person in my service, without being first assured that, in so doing, there should be no chance of a recurrence of a neglect of duty. I can only assure the House that the messenger was deeply sensible of his error within five minutes after he had committed it, and has repeatedly expressed his extreme sorrow at the very culpable act of which he was guilty. I am satisfied the House will see that there is no one thing which it is more my duty to attend to, than that of seeing that its regulations are strictly abided by; but, in this instance, I shall conform to the suggestion which has been made, and admonish the individual in severe terms.
 Mr. Freshfield * * 513 514 515 516 517 518 519 520
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  rose to bring forward a motion for the restoration of the towns to the present Bill, which were in schedule C. of the original Bill. He said that, according to the proposition of the noble Lord, twelve towns were to have mayors and town councils. The seven first towns were in the original Bill in schedule A, the others were to be found in schedule B, to which Carrickfergus and Derry were added. The effect of the noble Lord's proposition would be, to exclude four towns with a population of 10,000, and four others with a population of 9,000. Why they were to be excluded, while Derry, with only 10,000, and Carrickfergus, with only 8,000, were included, he could not understand, unless it was on the principle of a concession to the other House. The proposition he had to make was, that the towns which were placed in the old Bill in schedule C, should be restored to the honourable position of corporate towns. The towns to which he alluded were as follow: Bandon, with l2,6l7 inhabitants; Athlone, with 11,362; Wexford, with 10,673; Dimdalk, with 10,078; Youghal, with 6,608; Armagh, with 9,189; Carlow, with 9,111; Tralee, with 9,562; Ennis, 7,711; Cashel, with 6,971; Kinsale, with 7,312; Portarlington, with 3,091; New Ross, 5,011; Enniskillen, with 5,270; Colerain, 5,752; and Dungannon, 3,515. He objected to any such compromise as that of abandoning these towns. The Bill, as it had come from the other House, was an insult to the people of Ireland; and a
 521 1. 1. 522
 The Speaker : Who seconds the motion?
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said he could not sit and hear it proposed that the town which he had the honour to represent should he included amongst the towns which were to have corporate honours and privileges extended to them without rising to second the motion. If there were to be any additional towns included he should certainly respectfully put in his claim for the very respectable town of Bandon. When the hon. Gentleman opposite declared that he would not compromise his opinions, he certainly did cheer the hon. Member, because whether in this House or out of it, in his humble judgment, a more honourable man was not to be found. He begged to add a word on another subject. The hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny had on a former occasion referred to an inscription which he said he had seen on entering the town of Bandon. Now he had received letters that morning, stating that there had been neither a gate nor any walls at the entrance of the town of Bandon within the last century. The letters informed him that there was not even the vestige of a wall or gate, nor was there any tradition to warrant the supposition that there ever had been a wall or gate. He seconded the present motion, because he felt that if there were to be towns added to the list, there could not be found a more loyal or more respectable town than that he had the honour to represent.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, that although he had opposed the Bill in its first shape, he had cheerfully supported the proposition of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home department, for introducing the 12 towns which he had named, because he thought it would make a Bill, originally bad, worthy of the support of the House. He was decidedly opposed to the principle of adding other towns to the list; and if the hon. Member for Dundalk was allowed to get up and add three or four other towns, his example might be followed until all the small towns, as originally proposed,
 523
 Mr. Waller  said, the motive which some Gentlemen had assigned for voting in favour of establishing new Corporations in Ireland was, that they considered it as likely to effect the pacification of that country; now, his reason for voting against the measure was, the very strong conviction, founded on observation and experience, that it would do no such thing, but that the rejection of the measure was more likely to produce the desired effect. Neither did he concur with those who maintained that the rejection of the new Corporations for Ireland was a rejection of the Irish people from the enjoyment of those rights which were possessed by the people of England; because, beyond doubt, previously to the enjoyment of any right, it ought to be shown that those to whom it was imparted should be in a condition to exercise it for the general benefit. He thought it had been clearly proved, first, that those who had already possessed these corporate rights in Ireland, had not exercised them for the general benefit, but only for the advantage of their own party, and therefore that they ought not to be conferred upon them; and next, he thought it had been proved with equal clearness, that those whom it was now proposed to endow with these corporate rights, would not enjoy them for the general benefit, but for the good of their party, and that therefore they ought not to be conferred, but that both sides should alike
 524 525 526
 Mr. O'Connell : I object, Sir, to the introduction of such questions as the Church Bill and the Poor-laws upon this occasion. On the Poor-laws we have already read enough in  The Times The Times The Times, Peel—"Order!
 Mr. Kearsley  rose to order. Sir, said he, if his Majesty's servants, for they are Ministers no longer—I say, Sir, if his Majesty's servants can submit—if they are so humiliated as to submit—to the bullying conduct of the hon. Gentleman, I shall not submit to it. I wish to know, Sir, is this proper conduct in this House? I'll divide the House upon it.
 Mr. O'Connell : I wish the hon. Member for Berkshire joy of his ally. There
 527 528
 Mr. Richards  called the hon. Member for Kilkenny to order. An attack was made upon the hon. Member for Berkshire as if he were connected with  The Times
 Mr. O'Connell : The hon. Member for Berkshire has reason to rejoice in his second defender.
 Mr. Walter : I do not wish to interrupt the hon. and learned Gentleman; I only ask the favour of being permitted to reply.
 The Speaker  considered it would be most desirable if hon. Members would only refer to what occurred in the course of the debate.
 Mr. O'Connell : Certainly; and therefore I only wish to congratulate the hon. Member for Berkshire upon his second defender. I think nothing can be more flattering to him than the first—except the second; one, too, so especially remarkable for his exceeding delicacy and extreme polish, which make him shrink from any thing that belongs to the kennel.
 Mr. Richards : I rise to order, Sir. It is not right to bring into this House the manners of a blackguard, instead of those of a gentleman [" Order! "]
 The Speaker  was sure that the House must agree with him in thinking, that expressions had been used on both sides which were not proper to be used in that House. He would conjure the Members, for the sake of that House, not to indulge in language inconsistent with propriety.
 Mr. O'Connell : I care not for his expressions. As to mine, I only talked of hopping over the kennel, and I think it was not inapplicable to the occasion.
 Mr. N. Fitzsimon : I think that the debate cannot continue. The hon. Member for Knaresborough has used most offensive expressions. He has made use of a word which I am almost afraid to repeat, but which you, Sir, I am sure, must have heard, as every hon. Member near me has heard it. I must, then, request of the hon. Member for Knaresborough to withdraw, before this House, his exceedingly offensive expression.
 The Speaker  observed, that words had undoubtedly fallen from the hon. Member for Knaresborough which ought not to have been used. The inference was, that if they were not directly applicable to the hon. Member for Kilkenny, they were intended to apply to him.
 Mr. O'Connell : Oh! I do not remember them.
 Mr. Richards : I hope that upon all occasions I shall bow to the Speaker. I understood the hon. Member for Kilkenny to say, that the words used by me were brought from the kennel. Understanding
 530
 The Speaker  stated, that he understood the hon. Gentleman to have said that the words savoured of the kennel.
 Dr. Baldwin  remarked, that in the first instance the hon. Member for Knaresborough had used the word" ruffianise. He left it to the House to say whether that was a proper expression to be used.
 Mr. Richards : If the word was not applied to me, in the manner I understood it, I withdraw the expression.
 Mr. N. Fitzsimon : I think that the hon. Member for Knaresborough has no right to enter into a compromise upon this subject. I think he should be called upon at once to withdraw the offensive expression as indefensible.
 Mr. O'Connell : I do not do so, feeling the compliment that has been paid to me by the hon. Member for Knaresborough.
 Dr. Baldwin : But the other Irish Members do feel it. I call upon the hon. Member to explain the expression ruffianise.
 Colonel Peel : The hon. Member, I am sure, will withdraw the expression; but I appeal to the hon. Gentleman opposite, whether the tone in which he has conducted this debate is not calculated to call forth angry expressions.
 Mr. Richards : As it appears to me, I must have been under a mistake, in the application of the word kennel, I am at once ready to withdraw the expressions objected to.
 Mr. O'Connell : I was arguing upon three points introduced into his speech by the hon. Member for Berkshire; one on the Poor-laws, the other the Church, upon which he has voted against his colleagues; the third is the real question before the House, and I was proceeding to comment upon it, when I was called to order by the Hon. Member for Wigan, who was very disorderly in doing so, and who sat down extremely quietly, as he usually does when he is in the wrong. I was then next called to order by the hon. Member for Knaresborough, who got into that species of language which is so familiar, that until it was proved to him, he did not know it was improper [" Order.'"].
 Mr. Scarlett  said, the manner in which this debate was conducted, was a strong argument in favour of a repeal of the Union. He would put it to the Chair whether the debates of that House could
 531
 Mr. O'Cornell : Behold! a third advocate. Another cause for congratulation to the hon. Member for Berkshire I do not believe a fourth could really be found in this House. The hon. Member for Knaresborough makes use of offensive expressions: I do not require any apology for them, whereupon the hon. Member for Norwich—
 Mr. Goulburn : It is not for the purpose of making a commentary that I now rise to order; but I submit to you, Sir, whether, if this species of discussion is continued, it is calculated to insure respect to this House?
 Mr. O'Connell : I have done with the subject. I thought, indeed, that a fourth could not be found. I forgot the right hon. Gentleman; I forgot that in this House a fourth could be found. If any Gentleman calls me to order, I shall immediately sit down—to find a fifth is impossible. And now, Sir, I hope I may be allowed to go on.
 Mr. Sergeant  Jackson rose amidst shouts of laughter and cheers. He was understood to say, that if hon. Members persevered in this mode of conducting the proceedings of the House, he should move that the House do adjourn.
 Sir Robert Bateson  moved that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  seconded the motion.
 Lord John Russell : I must agree in what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, that any personal expression is, in itself, irregular, and ought not to be persevered in. No interruption of the kind ought to be permitted, but the debate should be allowed to proceed. Now I cannot help remarking, that the last time the hon. Member for Kilkenny met with an interruption, it appeared to me that he was about to proceed with what is the proper subject for discussion.
 The Speaker  thought he could not have a more suitable occasion than the present for recommending to Members to be guarded as possible in the words used by them. Upon a great many occasions, when subjects were brought under consideration in which hon. Members felt deeply interested, expressions were used in the heat of debate, not perhaps intended to be personally offensive; and it was exceedingly difficult for one placed in his situation to catch at those expressions, and to give them a meaning with which they were not intended to be applied, and were not probably so understood. The predicament in which he was placed upon such occasions was exceedingly painful. He was at all times unwilling to lay hold of particular expressions; what he had always endeavoured to do, and often, he was sorry to say, not very successfully, was to promote as far as in his humble powers lay, that these debates should be maintained with discretion, order, and conduct, and in such a manner as would be consistent with the dignity, character, and honour of that House.
 Mr. O'Connell : The speech of the hon. Member for Berkshire, to which I was adverting when interrupted, contains three subjects. The last was the Poor-laws, the last but one the Church question. Upon that I have shown his utter inconsistency. Whatever that person's inconsistency may be, it is not my fault. I have nothing to do with it—it is no act of mine if a man becomes a renegado to the one side or the other—but when a man does so, it is natural that he should have, at least, the sympathy of those who are also renegadoes, and have abandoned principles they formerly professed. It is matter so completely personal that it is not to be accounted for. The inconsistency of the hon. Gentleman is, however a matter of
 533 The Times 534 qui capit ille fecit.
 Mr. Waller  hoped he might be allowed to say a few words in answer to the personal charges brought against him by the learned Member for Kilkenny. In the first place he might observe, that he had not intended to take any part in the discussion of that evening, but the hon. Member for Warwickshire having risen to defend his vote, he felt it right to say a few words in defence of the course which he had taken, on the BUI. With respect to the press, he had on a for-
 535 3,000,000l "Spoke, spoke," "Order"
 The Speaker  said, that the House would hear the hon. Member in explanation of any parts of his speech on which other hon. Members might have commented; but having already delivered his sentiments on the question before it, it could not allow him to reply.
 Mr. Walter  submitted, that by the courtesy of the House he was entitled to reply to the personal and unfounded charges made against him by the learned Member for Kilkenny. One of the most extraordinary of those charges was that of sitting on that (the Ministerial) side of the House. When he (Mr. Walter) looked round and saw the numbers of Members who were now on that (the Ministerial) side, who two years ago had sat on the opposite side, he thought that the Member for Kilkenny, in blaming him, had cast an imputation on many of his own friends. The Ministry, it was said, was the same; but no parties had abused each other more than those who now appeared to have cast their lots together. He retained his original seat, because his opinions were unchanged; but though his opinions, on things were unchanged, those on persons were, of course, affected by the closer observation he was able to make of their public conduct; and if, on such nearer observation he appeared to himself to have discovered some individuals better qualified to conduct the business of the country, than others of whose talents he had for a time entertained an undue opinion, he was of course open to conviction, and preferred the abler statesmen. He would only fur-
 536
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, there had been no wish or intention on the part of himself and the friends of the Government to disturb the House by a debate upon the question now before it, which was, whether Bandon should be included in the schedule or not? and if the hon. and learned Member for Bandon had not volunteered his services in that way, he felt convinced that his hon. Friend behind him would not have found a seconder to his proposition; He regretted to see that there seemed to be a determination on the part of Members on the opposite side of the House, that whatever business might be doing, on any Irish question, nothing should be done peaceably, amicably, and according to the usual parliamentary course. There were many Gentlemen on the ministerial side of the House who thought that Ministers had not made a sufficiently determined stand upon this question. He could only assure the House, however, that whatever had been done by them, had been resolved upon after the best consideration, and with the firm and honest conviction that they were doing the best which, under circumstances, could be done for Ireland. He thought that the thanks of the country were due to the Government for having adopted a course which was likely to lead to an honourable compromise, and afford an opportunity of bringing this great question to a settlement. He regretted extremely that anything of a personal nature had occurred in the course of the debate. He would express a hope, also, that his hon. Friend behind him would see the importance of not continuing the discussion further. He trusted his hon. Friend would see the great advantage which would result from this Bill being sent up to the other House in its altered form, without any division upon
 537
 Colonel Butler  merely rose to say, that it was his intention to have seconded the motion of the hon. Member for Dundalk, when he was anticipated by the hon. and learned Member for Bandon in so doing.
 Mr. Walker  hoped his hon. Friend near him would not press the House to a division on this question.
 Mr. Scarlett  did not deny that Irishmen were fit to enjoy political liberty and political institutions; but he thought that these must be given them by different means to those adopted in England, on account of the difference in the social characteristics of the two nations. He did not mean to say, that Irishmen were inferior to Englishmen; on the contrary, he thought that, in many particulars, they were their superiors, as in their great vivacity and quickness of apprehension.
 Mr. Wallace  felt strongly the insult which was offered to the Irish people by the House of Lords; but still he hoped that his hon. Friend, for whom he entertained great respect, would withdraw his motion.
 Dr. Baldwin  said, that it was not to be supposed that he did not feel strongly the insult which was offered to his country by the House of Lords; but he trusted his hon. Friend would not bring division into the camp of the reformers by pressing a motion which was calculated to embarrass that Administration which seemed to him determined to do justice to his country. He would not argue the question; all argument upon it was exhausted; but he rose merely for the purpose of asking his hon. Friend not to persevere in his proposition.
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, he would consent to withdraw it, if he heard any just reason urged for his doing so; but in the absence of all argument in favour of the course which he was pressed to adopt, he must persevere.
 Mr. Pryme  objected to it, as creating doubts as to the validity of marriages, and imposing difficulties in the way of establishing the legitimacy of children.
 Dr. Lushington  thought his hon. Friend misconceived the scope of the clause, the object of which was to confine the operation of the law (concerning invalid marriages) to as narrow a circle of cases as possible.
 Dr. Nicholls  thought the present law as to annulling marriages very objectionable, but he did not think it possible to omit the clause. It might, however, be advantageously modified, and he would lend his assistance to improve it on bringing up the Report.
 Mr. Harvey  said that, seeing the Attorney-General in his place, he would take that opportunity to present a Petition of which he had given that learned Gentleman notice. The petition in question was an appeal to that House—it was an appeal from the poor to the rich against a scourge which the rich alone could inflict on them. The petition was signed by seventy persons, all of them, with five exceptions, of the labouring class in the county of Radnor, in South Wales. The county of Radnor, it was well known, was extremely mountainous, and, until lately, a great portion of it had been the property of the Crown. However, in the year 1826, the Commissioners of Woods and Forests sold a great portion of the Crown manors there, and that, too, he regretted to observe, by private contract. In that year one of these manors had been sold by the Commissioners to Mr. Watt, of Birmingham. It had long been the custom for the poor of the district—a custom which had not been interdicted by the Government — to enclose small portions of waste grounds on the slopes of the hills and vallies there, and to build cottages upon them. Some of these cottages had been occupied upwards of thirty years. It suited the purposes of the purchaser of the manor, on obtaining possession of it, to institute an action at law to recover one of these cottages, and a small portion of ground attached to it, with a view to the assertion of his dominion over the whole of them. The action was tried, and a verdict returned for the plaintiff, subject to a special case, to be argued and determined in the Court of Common Pleas. It was fully argued there, and the unanimous decision of the court was, that the Crown had not the power to sell the waste; that if it had the power which, it claimed, that power did
 505
 The Speaker  stated, that he had received information from the Sergeant-at-Arms, that the prison-rooms of the House were not well adapted to the purpose. As far as the evil was capable of a remedy he would take care that it was remedied.
 Mr. Buckingham  wished that, at least, an attempt should be made to close retail spirit shops in Ireland, as they were closed in England and Scotland.
 Mr. Wason  referred to the letter he had written to the Speaker, expressing his sense of the courtesy shown to him by the Sergeant-at-Arms, and complained of the order of the House, for which he had found no precedent. No Member ought to be ordered into custody unless he had contravened the orders of the House, or refused to comply with its just demands.
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  begged to assure the hon. Member for Kilkenny that quite as strong cases had occurred in North Wales. The most vexatious and oppressive proceedings had been adopted there by the Commissioners of Woods and Forests—proceedings that had surprised the whole principality.
 Sir Frederick Trench  rose to make a complaint as to the state of the prison-rooms belonging to the House. He had had the misfortune to be the first inhabitant of them, and mere accident prevented his confinement in the same apartment with the hon. Member for Ipswich. The rooms were so constructed, that it was impossible for one Member not to pass through the apartment of the other, and frequently this could not be done without the utmost impropriety and indecency. That no inconvenience of this kind had arisen in his case was owing to good fortune; for the hon. Member for Ipswich, instead of being on his way to Dover and Calais, was comfortably asleep in his bed in his own lodgings. He had no doubt that had they been thus awkwardly circumstanced, the hon. Member for Ipswich would have treated him with the utmost courtesy, and he should have endeavoured to return it; but still the situation might have been inconvenient. He was suffering at the time under severe indisposition, and he might have been compelled to go through the hon. Member's room; and two men of less mild disposition and habits might have found the situation very disagreeable. If the object were to keep quarrelsome Members asunder, no arrangement could be more absurd. Of course he imputed no blame to the Speaker, who was
 508
 The Attorney-General  said, that he had attended in consequence of the hon. Gentleman having given him notice of his intention to present the petition. He had made it his duty to inquire into the facts of the case, and having derived his information from a quarter on which he could place implicit confidence, he would lay the real facts before the House. It would then be seen that nothing had been done by the Government which could give just cause for complaint. The Crown possessed extensive manors in the county of Radnor, and large portions of the public property therein had been encroached upon by private individuals. In the year 1826, a number of these manors were sold. Mr. Watt, of Birmingham purchased one of them, and as might be expected from such a man, he had treated the persons who had made encroachments there with the greatest kindness and liberality. He allowed them to remain in possession, on condition of their
 506
 Mr. Jervis  vindicated the conduct of the Commissioners, and contended that the proceedings which they had adopted had been necessary for the purpose of asserting the rights of the Crown, or rather of the public.
 Sir Robert Bateson  regretted that the clause, which originally closed retail houses the whole of Sunday, had been altered. In that shape, it gave universal satisfaction in Ireland.
 Lord Mahon  wished to ask a question of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, relative to a subject which he had questioned him about last year—he meant the negotiations that were going on between Spain and the South American States respecting the recognition of the independence of the latter Powers by the former. When he put the question to the noble Viscount, on a former occasion, his reply was, that Senor Mendizabal had dissolved the Cortes, and the consequence was, that it had led to an interruption of the negotiations. The noble Lord might now make him the same answer, for the present Prime Minister of Spain had dissolved the Cortes in a similar manner. He understood, however, that Senor Isturitz, when a Deputy, said, in his place in the Chamber of Procuradores, that he did not think that the determination of the question rested with the Cortes, but that it was part of the prerogative of the Crown, and therefore the Crown should direct the proceedings; in short, that the Crown should settle the
 511
 Viscount Morpeth  would have been pleased, if he could have retained the clause in its original shape; but the representations of the magistrates and the police officers had convinced him that it was impossible, and he had been reluctantly obliged to alter it.
 Viscount Palmerston  did not think that the slowness of the negotiations could in any way be attributed to his Majesty's Government. The noble Lord must be aware that his Majesty's Government had nothing to do with the negotiations, for they had not been invited by either party to intervene in the matter. If, therefore, the negotiations were brought to an early termination, they could claim no merit for it, and if they did not succeed, his Majesty's Government could not be blamed. He could, however, assure his noble Friend, that his colleagues and himself were extremely anxious to see the differences between Spain and her South American colonies at an end; and as far as Great Britain could interfere between independent states, without being called upon, the Government would exert its influence to promote this object. He had not heard any thing on the subject since the change in the Government of Spain. That change, however, was so recent, that it was hardly possible that the negotiations could have been carried to such an extent that a result had been arrived at. He, however, could state, that he knew that Generals Soublette and O'Leary were still at Madrid; and whilst they were there, he hoped there was every probability that the negotiations would be brought to a satisfactory termination.
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that when he seconded the motion of the hon. Member, he might not be understood as consenting to his proposal for raising the money by a continuance of the duty on coals. No one could visit the city of London without being made aware of the great importance of the communications being facilitated, as the loss of time and annoyance experienced from the present condition of the streets was incredible. He thought the success which had attended the plans of the hon. Member on former occasions,
 562
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted that the hon. Member did not contemplate drawing upon the public purse in aid of the objects he had in view.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  replied, that that formed no part of his plan.
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped that a very enlarged and comprehensive view of the subject would be taken. They were now in the same situation with respect to improvements in the Metropolis in which they had been placed with regard to railways when those great national undertakings were first projected. When railways were first planned, perhaps the fittest course would have been to appoint a commission of able practical men, to survey the whole of the country adjoining the proposed railway, and lay down the course of the main line of road; but now they were so far advanced, that it was almost too late to legislate on comprehensive principles with respect to them. He hoped that nothing would be done with respect to the remaining improvements of the Metropolis till the various plans proposed had been impartially considered, that due foresight would be used as to the probable extension of the Metropolis, and that not only the present, but the future, convenience of the public would be consulted. It was manifest that very great improvements might be effected, and he hoped that Government would not hesitate to consent to a temporary advance of the public money, if that should be necessary. He did not mean to say, that the public should sustain any loss; he had always maintained that the Metropolis had no greater claim on the public funds than the rest of the empire; but if great benefit could be secured to the Metropolis by a temporary advance on adequate security, he thought that would be a perfectly legitimate application of the public money. He thought that if it were possible to appoint a commission in which the public might have confidence, to take an enlarged view of the question, such a step would be very desirable.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved, as an amendment to the motion, that the said Select Committee do inquire into the state of the law relative to Lotteries, foreign or otherwise, in which schemes have been advertised or circulated, or tickets or shares disposed of, in the United Kingdom, and to report their opinion thereon to the
 563 l.
 Sir E. Codrington  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Hume  submitted to the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, that this was a proper subject for the investigation of a separate Committee. There was no sort of connexion between the two objects proposed [ hear
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was very glad that the subject of Foreign Lotteries had been introduced. His attention had been lately directed to the question, and he was engaged in preparing a Bill, which he believed was calculated, in its operation, to redress some portion of the evils which were complained of regarding them. He should introduce it in the course of a few days, and the House would see whether it answered that purpose. If it did not, he should support the reference of the Bill to a Select Committee. Undoubtedly, the evils to which these speculations gave rise called for an immediate remedy.
 Mr. O'Connell  would not press his amendment.
 Mr. Wakley  moved, that the words "His Majesty" be substituted for the words "Speaker of the House of Commons," and "Lord High Chancellor."
 Mr. Maclean  moved, that the Barristers be required to have practised three years below the bar, and three at the bar.
 Lord Granville Somerset  observed, that there was a very important matter to be taken into consideration, namely, the time which would be taken up in effecting the registration. The Bill proposed that every district should have the registration effected once in each year. Now, he had found that last year 475 days were taken up in completing the registration. The hon. Member opposite might reply that that was an extraordinary year; but he would take the two years preceding, which were not extraordinary, and the average number of days occupied in the registration was 323, in which computation Sundays were not included. It was evidently a physical impossibility that the number of Barristers to be appointed could perform this duty, and he should therefore divide the Committee against the clause.
 Mr. Warburton  contended, that every question must be decided by the balance which appeared between conveniences and inconveniences. He did not agree with the noble Lord in thinking that so much time would be consumed in the registration as had been wasted under the old system, owing to the incompetency of the tribunal which had to decide on questions relating to that subject.
 Sir W. Follett  said, that in his judgment, it was not so much a matter of importance whether the number of Barristers was large or small, as whether the appointment should be vested in the Government. He had a strong objection that the Revising Barristers should be creatures and nominees of any Government. It was objectionable in the highest degree to invest the Ministers of the day with the power of appointing officers filling
 565
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that by this clause, if the Revising Barrister should be taken ill, a Deputy was to be appointed. Now, was it intended that they, having enacted that the Revising Barrister himself should be prevented from sitting in Parliament for any borough, city, or county, for which he had revised the list, that the Deputy to be appointed should be placed under the same restriction?
 The Attorney-General  considered that they ought to be placed on the same footing with the Revising Barristers themselves, and it would be necessary to introduce a proviso to that effect.
 Sir James Graham  begged to enter his protest against the propriety of vesting the appointment of Revising Barristers in the officers of the Crown.
 Mr. Jervis  cited, in justification of the proposal, the case of the Welsh Judges, who, until within a few years, had always been appointed by the Crown, upon the same principle that it was proposed now to adopt with reference to the Revising Barristers.
 Sir James Graham  remarked, that the precedent put forward by the hon. Member for Chester was an unfortunate one, inasmuch as the manner of appointing the Welch Judges had long been a theme of general and deserved reprobation, and in
 566
 The Attorney- General  begged to remind the right hon. Baronet, that there was a wide difference between the cases of the Welch Judges, as formerly appointed, and that of the Revising Barristers to be appointed under this Bill—namely, that the Welch Judges did sit in Parliament, which gave rise to the charge of political jobbing as against them, while the Revising Barristers were expressly incapacitated from holding seats in Parliament, not only for the time being, but for a period of eighteen months, after being employed in that capacity, in respect of the places for which they had revised the lists, whether city, borough, or county.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  begged to ask if no jobbing could be done unless the parties had seats in that House? If it was considered necessary to exempt certain individuals from sitting in that House, was it not sanctioning a much worse principle, to say that persons under the influence of the Crown should have the power ministerially to decide the question as to who should sit in that House?
 Mr. Charles Butter  was strongly disposed to join in the objections that were taken to this clause. It certainly was a most extraordinary principle that the Revising Barristers were to be appointed by one person, while the substitutes for the Revising Barristers, when a necessity arose for their appointment, was to be appointed by another, who could not be so well acquainted with their fitness as he whom they had excluded.
 Mr. Maclean  contended that the Lord Chancellor might appoint a person as a supernumerary Revising Barrister, who might not be of more than two or three years standing; and the scale of payment of these individuals was to be determined by the Lord Chancellor; he was to award what he should deem meet. He had great objection to lodging this power in the hands of the Lord Chancellor.
 Mr. Warburton  had no objection to postpone the clause.
 Mr. Brotherton  rose, and said that he owed an apology to the House for not persisting on a former night in his motion for an adjournment of the House at twelve o'clock. He had submitted, however, on that occasion, to a power which he felt that he was not able to resist. He had not undertaken the task of moving the adjournment at twelve o'clock at night from any unworthy motive—from any morbid love of notoriety—he had undertaken it because he felt that the system of midnight legislation was not only injurious to the health of hon. Members, but was also highly prejudicial to the interests of the country, and to the sober and deliberate judgment which those interests imperatively required. He desired on all occasions to act impartially, and he hoped that he had done so. He was sorry, however, to observe that there seemed in certain quarters to be a desire to break through the very wholesome regulation on this subject, to which the House agreed at the commencement of this Session. He therefore felt himself called upon not to give way to-night, and he should therefore move, that the Chairman do now report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the hon. Member for Salford had not fairly stated the regulation to which the House assented at the commencement of the Session. The understanding then was, that no new matter should be commenced after twelve o'clock, but that was not to prevent the matter in hand at that hour from being brought to a conclusion. He considered that the hon. Member, in making his present motion, was guilty of a decided breach of the understanding which had formerly been made between him and the House.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he had never understood that the hon. Member for Sal-ford had consented to let business go on till three or four o'clock in the morning, because it had commenced before twelve o'clock at night.
 Mr. Praed  expected the hon. Member for Salford to persevere in his Motion; and reminded him that he had frequently moved the adjournment of the debate when a new Speaker rose at five minutes past twelve o'clock.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that if the hon. Member for Salford felt any hesitation in pressing his motion, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bridport, he
 568
 Mr. Aglionby  was not aware that the House had ever come to any understanding on this subject with the hon. Member for Salford. For himself, he had not been a party to any such understanding, nor would he now. He would not let the hon. Member for Salford be the sole judge whether the House ought or ought not to sit after twelve o'clock. He should certainly divide the Committee on the question of reporting progress.
 Colonel Sibthorp  moved that the House do adjourn.
 Sir John Hobhouse  hoped that this motion would be resisted. If the House determined not to sit later than twelve o'clock at night, hon. Members must make up their minds to continue sitting to that hour till the middle of September. He, therefore, hoped that hon. Members would not obstruct the public business by making motions of this kind. He denied that Government had ever come to any understanding with the hon. Member for Salford on this question.
 Mr. Wallace  said, the hon. Member for the University of Dublin himself spoke frequently fifteen or twenty times after twelve. For his part he never did and never should adhere to the rule of adjourning at that hour. It was departed from almost every night. He did not wish to make any harsh observations upon the course pursued by the hon. Member for Salford. No hon. Member ought to be permitted to dictate to the House what was or what was not important business, or prescribe a time for closing their discussions. They were sent there to do the public business with the greatest possible speed. He must remind the hon. Member for the University of Dublin, that while that hon. Member was absent in Dublin, in the discharge of his duty, he and others must be in that House at all times during the Session. It might be very convenient for hon. Members to concur in a motion for adjournment, who were not in their places all day watching the public business. Were they, after proceeding so far with this important Bill, to give it up at so early an hour as twelve?
 569
 Mr. Brotherton  would take with calmness the observations of the hon. Member for Greenock. He had never pretended to make himself a judge on this matter, and as a proof of it, he would appeal to the House whether he had ever divided it before to-night on the question of adjournment.
 Colonel Sibthorp  observed, that though the hon. Member for Greenock had alluded to the hon. Member for Salford as "the guardian of the night," he had never yet been under his control; and if the hon. Member for Salford intended to vacate his present post, he was prepared to take possession of it. He was determined to take the sense of the Committee again on the question of adjournment, and he hoped that hon. Members would support him in so doing.
 Mr. Shaw  reminded the House that the understanding with the hon. Member for Salford, which his Majesty's Government now repudiated, was a compromise made with a certain party in that House. He was sure that hon. Members could not have forgotten that the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny had given notice that he should move the adjournment every night at ten o'clock, but that promise, like several others from the same quarter, had never been performed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was quite clear that the continuance of such desultory conversation tended only to exhaust the patience of the House, without advancing the business of it in the least degree. That the Bill before them was of importance no one denied, and that it was one of exigency, in point of time, was equally admitted. It had been re-committed a third time, and, therefore, it remained to be shown by hon. Gentlemen who knew that they were a minority, whether they would interrupt public business, not for the purpose of reserving points upon which a difference of opinion was likely to arise—rbecause he was willing to reserve any such points—but for the purpose of retarding the business of the House. We say, that with a view to give the people of England a remedy for admitted evils, let us proceed with the points upon which we are all agreed.
 Mr. George F. Young  did not wish to impede the business of the House, but
 570
 Colonel Perceval  begged leave again to move, that the Committee do adjourn.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  entreated the House to go through those clauses to which no objections were taken, and postpone the rest to another evening. It was not wished to entrap hon. Gentlemen into an acquiescence to clauses against which they entertained any objection. But if they would oppose clauses now, to which they would at another hour assent, why then let the country understand that such was the spirit in which these hon. Gentlemen were prepared to legislate.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that a great number of Gentlemen, who were the best informed upon the subject of this Bill, and on whose judgment he and his friends placed implicit reliance, were gone home, upon the understanding, that the proposition which was made at the early part of the Session for adjourning the House at twelve o'clock, would be adhered to. He did, therefore, feel it his duty, under those circumstances, to persevere in his endeavour to prevent the Bill going on any further to-night.
 Sir John Hobhouse  would ask, whether anybody could deny that the opposition now offered by gentlemen on the other side of the House was not a most fruitless, injudicious—he would not call it unfair, because nothing was unfair in that House,— and most unfounded opposition. If those respectable Gentlemen, who so well understood the provisions of the Bill, were gone away, still he begged leave to say, that many Members who had taken part in the debates upon the Bill, and who seemed to understand its details were still present. There were the hon. Member for Oxford, the hon. Member for Yarmouth, and the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln—a wise gentleman in his generation—all those who seemed to understand the subject best, still remained. If public business was to be impeded, let it be understood by whom it was so impeded, [ laughter, amidst which, the laugh of Col. Sibthorp was distinguishable. 571
 Colonel Sibthorp : As what passes in this House afterwards finds its way out of the House, nothing ought to pass within it which would not be suffered to pass unnoticed out of it. If the right hon. Gentleman wished to say anything which was personally offensive to me—I ask the right hon. Gentleman to state whether such is his intention? After a few more words, which were not heard, the hon. Member resumed his seat, and immediately afterwards left the House.
 Mr. Maclean : The right hon. Gentleman, in the course of his address to the House, was good enough to use my name. Before he did that, he said that those respectable Gentlemen who understood this question had left the House, laying some little emphasis on the word respectable. I presume the right hon. Gentleman did not mean to imply that those whose names he mentioned were not properly designated by that term?
 Sir John Hobhouse  begged to deny, in the most express manner, any intention to make the slightest possible reflection on the hon. Gentleman; and if he had said anything which was the least injurious to the hon. Gentleman, or which in any degree was hurtful to his feelings, he begged to express his sincere regret that any such unintentional circumstance should have happened.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, that the only way to put an end to this discussion was by forty members putting down their names, and declaring that they would remain there till six o'clock in the morning, in order to go through the business of the House.
 Mr. Bonham  hoped the House would not be deterred by any threat from doing its duty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was an important question and ought to be treated with calmness. If hon. Gentlemen would not allow the business to go on, undoubtedly they had the power to prevent it. He had hoped that the mode
 572
 Mr. Bernal  (The Chairman of the Committee) begged to acquaint the Chair, that certain words had passed between the hon. Member for Lincoln (Col. Sibthorp) and the right hon. Member for Nottingham (Sir John Hobhouse), in the progress of the Committee whose proceedings he had just reported, on which false constructions might be put; he therefore considered it his duty to report the fact to the House. It would be for the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair to take that notice of it which he should deem necessary.
 The Speaker : Are the hon. Members in the House?
 Mr. Bernal : No, Sir.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, I must say, Sir, that I did not hear any words used by the right hon. Member for Nottingham, which any man in his common senses could take offence at.
 Mr. Wason  begged to suggest the propriety of both the hon. Members being taken into custody forthwith.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  submitted, that the proper course of proceeding would be, to move that both the hon. Members be ordered to attend the House. This would bring them under the jurisdiction of the House, and they could then proceed as they thought proper. He begged to make the motion.
 The Speaker  put the question, that Sir John Hobhouse and Colonel Sibthorp be ordered to attend in their places.—
 The Speaker  said, that seeing the hon. Member for Lincoln in his place, it became his duty to acquaint him that the Chair-
 573
 Colonel Sibthorp : I have no hesitation in saying, Sir, that I have entertained, and must continue to entertain, such an impression, until I find an inclination on the part of the right hon. Member for Nottingham to disavow such an intention. I have but one course to pursue, Sir; I determined upon that course, Sir, when I first entered public life; and I hope the course I have uniformly pursued, both as a military man and a civilian, has never been irreconcileable with the course I ought to pursue. Sir, I have but one course to pursue; it is the maintenance of, I hope, unimpeachable honour, and, I trust unimpeachable courage. I have no hesitation in saying, Sir, that I did receive those words, and that I shall continue to receive them, in a manner offensive to me. As a man of honour, I have but this course to pursue; and this being the case, it is my inflexible determination to pursue no other.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was quite certain that the general expression of opinion which had fallen from the hon. Member, contained those principles by which every other hon. Gentleman would be most anxious to regulate his own conduct. For the moment, however—he meant no offence in this—he wished to leave the hon. Gentleman entirely out of the question, and to appeal to the personal and political friends who sat around him. He appealed to them for the accuracy of his interpretation of what had taken place. He really did not apprehend that any circumstance had occurred in the course of the debate in Committee, of which any hon. Gentleman had a right to take personal notice. He wished it to be understood that he was not now arguing the case of the hon. Member for Lincoln, because he wished to remove him altogether from the scene. The occurrence was simply this: a laugh took place on the Opposition side of the House; it might have occurred on the Ministerial side. Upon this, his right hon. Friend,
 574
 Mr. Eaton  felt bound to state, for the information of the House, and the satisfaction of the gallant Colonel, that he had been informed by the right hon. President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Poulett Thomson), that he was quite sure no personal offence had been intended by the right hon. Member for Nottingham.
 The Speaker  interrupted the right hon. Gentleman, and reminded him that it was one of the regulations of the House not to go into a discussion on a Petition relating to a matter that had been, or would be, made the subject of a specific motion.
 the Speaker  said, that he was bound in duty to enforce that which had been laid down as the general understanding of the House.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that in that respect the regulations of the House were changed since he had come into it. He still thought that petitioners had a right to have their case stated, though they might not have a right to have a debate upon it. He now gave notice, that on Thursday next he would present these petitions, and move for papers on the subject.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  rose to present Petitions from the landholders and commissioners of supply of the stewartry, and from the merchants, shipowners, and mariners of the port of Kirkcudbright, complaining of the want of lighthouses on the Scotch side of the Solway Frith, whereby numerous shipwrecks and great loss of life were fre-
 559 l., 560
 Mr. Goulburn  did not know whether the noble Lord would prefer, that he should enter into the question now or in Committee; but in his opinion the alteration now proposed was so completely a substitution of one principle for another, that he did not conceive himself, or any other hon. Member, called upon to enter into the merits of the proposition without time for consideration. The proposition appeared to him to contain an entirely new principle. The noble Lord said, that tithe
 595
 Mr. Hodges  suggested, that as the clause involved matters of a complicated nature it would be much better to postpone the consideration of it until it had been printed. He recommended that the debate on it should be postponed.
 Mr. Goulburn  was quite incapable of discussing the clause with anything like satisfaction to himself till he had seen it in print, and had had time to consider the probable effect of it.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that he now rose to present the petition of which he had given notice, from Captains Newall, Barrow and Glasspoole, of the late maritime service of the East-India Company, complaining that the compensation to which they were entitled under the Act 3rd and 4th William 4th., c. 85, was withheld from them. While candour obliged him to say, that he thought great injustice had been done to these petitioners, he was sure at the same time that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Board of Control had only acted in accordance with the dictates of his conscience and judgment in deciding against their claim. He was also certain that no one would be more rejoiced than the right hon. Gentleman himself, if he should find, that he had been mistaken in arriving at that decision. He thought it right to say thus much at the outset, and to disclaim all participation in those attacks which he had seen with great regret made upon the part of the Government with which the right hon. Baronet was connected, in reference to this subject. The case of the petitioners was briefly told. They were Gentlemen of great respectability, character, and station, and they had been commanders of ships in the East-India Company's service. In the year 1833, at the termination of the late charter of the company, it was deemed
 583 584 "Claims having been preferred to maritime compensation by commanders who have completed the full number of five voyages in the Company's own service, your Committee submit that it never could have been intended to grant the compensation to such commanders, they having had the peculiar benefits of the Company's own service for the whole term allowed by the Regulations, and there not being a single case in which a commander so circumstanced has again gone in the command of a ship. Your Committee, therefore, recommend that, subject to the approbation of the Board of Commissioners, claims for this class of commanders be deemed inadmissible." 585 "At a general Court of the East-India Company, the 16th of December, 1835—Resolved unanimously—That according to the intention of this Court in the scheme of compensation proposed by them for their maritime officers, Captains Newall, Barrow and Glasspoole, are entitled to the pension of 200 l.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down could not rate that service higher than he did. He also begged to assure his hon. Friend who had presented the petition, that it was not until he had gone through all the facts of the case most minutely, that he had arrived at the conclusion of which the petitioners complained — that they were not entitled to the compensation which they claimed. Having had notice of this petition, he had again gone over the details of the case, and he was again painfully compelled to pronounce the same decision. He could assure the House that of all the labours which devolved on the department with which he was connected, none were so painful as those which related to the consideration of claims of this kind [ hear 586 587 l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the only question was whether these officers were or were not injured by the opening of the trade to China. The right hon. Baronet said, that they had brought forward no proof of this; but he would remind the
 588
 Mr. Praed  agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that the Act of Parliament warranted the awarding compensation under certain regulations laid down to some classes of the officers of the East-India Company. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the scale of compensation adopted was needlessly profuse; but he thought the restriction of it to those who had served within the last five years was very inexpedient and impolitic. But these regulations were made before Lord Ellen-borough came into office. He thought there was a strong  primâ facie 589
 Mr. Vernon Smith  hoped the hon. Member would allow him to set him right on one point. They had imagined that in all they had done, with regard to claims for compensation, they had acted in complete accordance with the precedents laid down by Lord Ellenborough. He contended that the Board of Control had offered no objection to the production of evidence in support of the claim of. the petitioners; but the proofs they produced were of a very unsatisfactory character. The hon. Member for Worcester said, that the Board of Control had thrown obstacles in the way of the petitioners. He admitted this; but he did not agree with him in thinking that they were not entitled to throw obstacles in the way of a claim which they considered did not rest on any sufficient ground. He thought that one of the principal uses of the Board of Control was to prevent the extravagant expenditure of the property of the East-India Company. If the hon. Gentleman thought they had acted improperly, he might bring their conduct before Parliament, or he might, if he thought proper, introduce a Bill for altering the functions of the Board.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that it was probable that the hon. Member for Hampshire (Mr. Shaw Lefevre) had seen the clause, as he had expressed so strong an opinion in favour of it; but this was not the case with the rest of the Committee. He once more suggested the necessity of putting the Committee in possession of the clause with which they had to deal. He could not conceive that his propo-
 597
 Mr. Goulburn  was understood to say that, if considered more convenient, he should dicuss the provisions to which he objected on the third reading.
 Lord Stanley  thought the House was bound to take into its consideration the situation in which a class of persons, the parish clerks, would be placed by this Bill. Some of those persons received in fees from 100 l. l. 598
 Lord Stanley  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for his illustration respecting minors and lunatics, as it appeared to him to bear precisely on the present clause; for he was persuaded that, on the very same ground on which the guardians of the property of minors and lunatics should not have votes, trustees, to whom it was intended by the present clause to give the right of representation, should be excluded —namely, because they have no beneficial interest whatever to entitle them to vote.
 Mr. Foster  was in favour of some amendment of the Reform Act, as it stood at present, with reference to trustees, for he knew instances in which men having a trusteeship, without any beneficial interest whatever, were allowed to vote, though he, who was similarly circumstanced, had his claim disallowed.
 Lord Stanley  objected to it, as being opposed to the provisions of the Reform Bill. By the statute of William, trustees in actual possession were allowed to vote; but by the statute of Anne which followed, no trustees were allowed to vote unless they were in actual possession of the rents and profits for their use and benefit. In the Reform Bill there was one clause with regard to trustees which declared negatively that no person who was not in possession of the rents and profits should be allowed to vote, This clause did not certainly say, that they should be in possession of the rents and profits for their own use and benefit; but by a subsequent clause it was distinctly declared, in conformity with the statute of Anne, that no trustee should be allowed to vote, unless he were in possession for his own use and benefit. It was rather extraordinary that the latter restrictive clause was that relied on by the Attorney-General as a justification for the change now proposed, which must have the effect of materially enlarging this class of voters. He asked the Committee whether they would, in the face of the statute of Anne, in the face of the abuses which his hon. Friend (Mr. C. Ross) had alluded to, as the inevitable result of their sanctioning his proposal:—he asked them whether they would in the face of common sense and the plain meaning of the Reform Act, consent to the creation of a number of faggot votes grounded on no beneficial interest whatever? If this clause passed, a man having 60 l.
 Lord John Russell  thought that there would be very great difficulty in providing a remedy for the grievances referred to by the noble Lord. Until the Bill was in operation they could not say what loss those persons would sustain. He did not well know how clauses for compensation could be introduced into the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  moved the second reading of the Established Church Bill.
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for bringing up the Report on the Registration of Births and Marriages Bills. The noble Lord observed that several amendments had been made in these Bills. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Goulburn) objected to the provisions of the Bill. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would consent to take the sense of the House upon those objections on the third reading.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the object of the 26th Clause of the Reform Bill was to place the law in regard to trustees in the same state as it was placed by the Act of William 3rd.
 Lord John Russell : The hon. Member who had just sat down had been dreaming away his existence, without paying the least attention to the events of the last few years. The hon. Member had said, that when out of office his Majesty's Ministers had pretended great anxiety to obtain a settlement of the tithe question in Ireland. To that it was almost superfluous in him to reply, that they had really felt, and had not pretended, that anxiety. For his own part, he had felt it for sometime past, and had shown it in 1834, when, as one of the King's Ministers, he had assisted in preparing a Bill for that purpose which had been thrown out by the House of Lords, even though it did not contain any objectionable clause of appropriation. Again, in 1835, Ministers, as soon as they had time to consider this question, had propounded another Bill for the same object, and that Bill too had been thrown out by the House of Lords. Those facts appeared to have escaped the attention of the hon. Member who seemed to be in complete ignorance of the fate of those two bills. He (Lord J. Russell),however, could not exclude the past from his memory, and the consequence was, that he did not entertain the same hopes which he formerly entertained, that the Bill which he had proposed for the settlement of tithes in Ireland would be suffered by the other House to pass into law. With regard to the Bill to be debated that evening, he had only to observe that the Tithe Commutation Bill for England was brought into that House early in February last, that it had since then been frequently discussed, that it was a Bill of great importance, that it was a measure in which the interests of many parties were materially concerned, and that it was one on which he entertained hopes that Parliament would agree, there being no such question involved in it as was involved in the Irish Church Bill. He therefore could not see any reason why this Bill,
 593
 Lord John Russell  said, before the Bill was recommitted he wished to make a few remarks to the House. He would remind the House that when this subject was last under consideration, he had stated, that although they had been some time in Committee upon it, still the attendance had not been so numerous, nor had the sense of the House been so fairly taken on the 34th Clause, as to justify him in proposing that the Bill should pass, without affording them an opportunity of pronouncing some more decided judgment upon that particular provision. The effect of that clause was, that if it should be found in certain cases that the amount of tithe paid, or the amount of the composition for tithe, was above seventy-five per cent, on the gross value, it should be reduced to seventy; that, in cases where it fell below sixty, it should be raised to seventy; and that in special and peculiar cases it might be fixed at between sixty and seventy. He had since considered the subject with a view to meet, if possible, the objections of those who had spoken and voted against this clause as one which, in their opinion, would commit a very great injustice against the landowners. The result of that consideration was, that he gave notice of a motion for the recommittal of the Bill, for the purpose of effecting a very considerable change in this enactment. That change would be a modification of this clause, as the former clause was a modification of the 33rd Clause originally proposed. It was essentially necessary that that clause should undergo some modification, because it was evident that in many cases the sum of money taken as composition fell very much below what ought to be taken as its fair amount; and it was represented—with great justice, as be thought—that it would be very unfair
 594
 Lord J. Russell  moved, that the order of the day be now read for taking into further consideration the Report on this Bill.
 Mr. C. Ross  objected to the clause, on the ground that it gave the power of voting to charitable trustees.
 Mr. C. Ross  said, that the effect of this clause would be, that nominal charities would be created in every part of the country, in order to give a fictitious right of voting.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  thought, that the adoption of this clause would be a decided improvement of the Bill, and would materially assist the working of it. He felt obliged to the noble Lord for adopting it. He did not see the necessity for postponing the discussion of it, as there could be no objection to adopting it.
 Mr. Cayley  looked upon the clause as a great improvement.
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  approved of the principle of the clause, because it gave a greater discretionary power to the Commissioners.
 Sir George Sinclair  observed, that in the orders of the day the Church of Ireland Bill stood at the very head of the list. Why then was it postponed? The House had now sat four months, and he really did think that a Bill purporting to be one for the relief of the Church of Ireland, one of the most important measures that could possibly be submitted to the House, should long since have been carried to a conclusion. It seemed to him that the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers, now that they were in power, was very different from what it had been when they sat on that (the Opposition) side of the House; for while there a great deal had been said by them about the impossibility of tranquillizing Ireland without a settlement of the question relating to the Church of Ireland: yet week after week, and month after month, was now allowed to elapse without the measure being brought to a conclusion. This he could not reconcile with his ideas of what ought to be a manly, straightforward, and statesmanlike conduct. The only reason, indeed, that he could possibly discover as probably actuating his Majesty's Ministers in the course of proceeding they had adopted, was the fear they must necessarily entertain of the manner in which the appropriation clause of that measure was likely to be received in another place. It appeared to him that they had thought the appropriation clause a very convenient millstone to be launched from their catapulta to break down the rampart which kept them from the Treasury benches, but that they had at last found it a heavy millstone round their own necks. He trusted that some day would be fixed, on which the discussion might really and fairly be entered into, so that it might be ascertained whether the Bill
 592
 Mr. George F. Young  proposed as an amendment, that no trustee should be allowed to vote who was not a trustee for property of the amount of 30 l.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that according to the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman (the Attorney-General), the property owned by females should be represented.
 Mr. W. M. Praed  proposed, an amendment for the purpose of allowing
 599
 Mr. Praed  moved, that it be omitted. He objected to it on two grounds; first, as an infringement of the provisions of the Reform Bill: and, secondly, as a disfranchising clause introduced into a Bill of which the title and preamble were of an enfranchising nature. The clause of the Reform Bill which the clause before the Committee went to repeal, was one introduced by the House of Lords, and on its being sent down from that House, the noble Lord and the hon. Member for Kilkenny both expressed their approval of it. Unless, therefore, it could be shown that it had operated prejudicially, the House would be stultifying its own proceedings by repealing the clause. The only ground of objection which, he believed, could be found to the class of voters now proposed to be disfranchised was, that they were unfavourable to the present Government. That, however, was not a valid ground, or one which the Legislature could entertain. His objection, however, extended as well to the manner in which the clause was introduced, as to the matter it contained. If it was found necessary to meddle with the Reform Bill, it ought to be done openly, and the necessity ought to be stated in the preamble. The measure before the House was entitled, "A Bill for the more effectual registration of persons entitled to vote in the election of Members to serve in Parliament, and its preamble was of a similar enfranchising character. How, then, was a voter to know that, by a disfranchising clause smuggled into the centre of it, his right of voting was taken away? He should certainly take the sense of the Committee upon the question.
 Mr. Praed  contended, that unless, as argued by the Attorney-General, the words "for his own use" included trustees having a regulation or control over the trust funds, the objection taken by the noble Lord was not removed. He should certainly take the opinion of the Committee upon the point.
 Mr. Benett  had no objection to give large powers to the Commissioners. Indeed, he thought the clause did not go far enough in this respect, for there were many cases in which the Commissioners ought to have the power of lowering the commutation beyond the twenty per cent. Although most anxious for the disposal of this Bill, which he considered as calculated to do much good in the country, he certainly thought this clause ought to be maturely considered before it was adopted.
 Mr. Poulter  said, that this was a question which ought to be completely discussed and receive the fullest consideration. The object to be obtained was one of no less importance than the real efficiency of the Established Church. He should not oppose the motion, bat he must express his hope that the noble Lord would fix some day on which the question might be discussed fully.
 Mr. Pease  considered it his duty to state, that it was intended, when this Bill came into the Committee, to propose a provision for the See of Durham, previous to any portion of the funds being set apart for Manchester and other places, which were in a situation to provide for their own wants without abstracting anything from the poor See of Durham.
 Mr. Estcourt  objected to the clause being inserted in the Bill without the fullest discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that a similar course had been pursued last year on the English Municipal Reform Bill, and it was then distinctly understood and expressly stated, that the reasons for disagreeing to the Lords' Amendments were only the reasons of the majority, and, therefore, the minority, could not stand in the slightest degree pledged to abide by them. Many clauses of the reasons were not very intelligible, without reference to the Bill; it was not necessary to read them at full length, and they could only be regarded as the reasons of those who agreed to the Bill in its present shape. That was the course pursued on a former occasion, and the one which would prove most conducive to the public convenience.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that a Committee had been appointed to draw up reasons, to be communicated to the Lords at a conference,
 590
 Mr. Blamire  said, that he did not perceive that there was any difficulty in understanding the clause, although he had not seen it. He thought that it was highly advantageous that it had been brought forward. By means of it they would be enabled to guard against much injustice, which otherwise would have been inflicted.
 Mr. Ewart  considered, that the clause proposed to be omitted, so far from being an infringement of the Reform Bill, was in strict conformity with its principles.
 Sir Harry Verney  expressed his conviction that the clause of the Reform Bill proposed to be repealed was introduced into it by mistake, and Ministers had properly availed themselves of the present opportunity to destroy its operation.
 The Attorney-General  observed, that the property possessed by females was deprived of representation, precisely for the reason that property belonging to minors and lunatics could not be represented— namely, that from its very nature it was unfit to have the privilege of representation granted to it. The property under the superintendence of trustees, however, was capable of being represented, and therefore it was the object of the present clause that it should be represented.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the noble Lord happened to differ in his opinion of the right of a trustee to vote under the Reform Bill from the Chief Justice of the
 601 Stanley in totidem verbis. sub modo
 The Attorney-General  supported the clause. It was but just that all property should be represented.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, his objection to the Bill was, that it made the Bishops of the Church of England, instead of being great proprietors, stipendiaries of the State. The apportionment of the salaries he considered of minor importance. As he believed that any opposition which he could offer to the present motion would not be in the slightest degree successful, he should content himself with entering his protest against the principle of the Bill.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that if he understood the plan of the noble Lord correctly, it was quite contrary to the principle on which he had previously proposed to act, that was, to take the past receipts as the basis of future payments. Now, on the contrary, the noble Lord proposed to take the gross amount of the tithe, and to reduce them on another scale. He thought that they should have a valuation of the entire tithe-property of England, as the right hon. Member for Cumberland proposed, until which time the noble Lord could scarcely have a clear idea of the subject. When that was done it would be quite time enough for the hon. Member for Southwark to move its appropriation according to his sense of justice and propriety. For his (Sir It. Inglis's) part, he thought it should be kept as much as possible in the hands of its present owners, and especially not be given up as a bonus to the landowners.
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that considering the important charge intrusted to a Committee, in drawing up reasons whether they were such as had no reference at all to the opinions of the minority or not, he doubted, where that was the case, if it would be a good precedent to establish that such a Report should be received without objection. It was not right that the House, as a House, should sanction such a proceeding, and it might materially increase the weight of the reasons assigned, if it were known that they passed as those of the whole House, and that no objection was offered to the Report. 591
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he hoped it would be distinctly understood, that those who did not wish to provoke any discussion on the subject were at the same time not to be considered as coinciding with the reasons. It was impossible to urge any grounds of disagreement to the amendments to the Bill made by the Commons, without provoking a general debate on the point under discussion the other night. A division might take place on each of these amendments, especially as the reasons had not been read at length, and he trusted that it might be understood, that they the (Opposition) dissented; that their acquiescence was given under protest, and with a distinct reservation of their own opinions.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that if the noble Lord would look at the words of the clause, he would see that those trustees only who exercised a controlling power over the property of which they were appointed guardians were empowered to vote.
 Mr. W. Miles  was of opinion that the  bonâ fide
 Viscount Ebrington  hoped the clause would be agreed to. Hon. Members could state any objection to it on bringing up the Report.
 Lord Stanley  begged to ask the noble Secretary for the Home Department whether it was the intention of Ministers to bring forward this Session a measure on the subject of Church-rates?
 Lord John Russell  replied, that it must depend upon the progress of other Bills, and upon the decision the House should come to on the plan proposed by the Church Commissioners for appropriating part of the Church revenue not absolutely wanted, and now devoted to sinecures. The Report of the Commissioners had not yet been presented, and he would take this opportunity of saying, that he did not think he should be able to introduce a measure on the important question of Church-rates in the present Session. At the same time he begged to declare that his opinion remained unchanged; that by means of Church-rates, or in some other way, it was expedient that the State should provide for the maintenance and repair of churches. If a Bill were not brought in this Session it would be absolutely necessary not to delay it beyond next Session, and if it could be proceeded with instantly it would not be very possible to vote any sum for the purpose in this Session, so that a remedy would not be much, if at all, delayed by deferring it to another year.
 Mr. Hume  referred to the anxiety felt out of doors, especially by the Dissenters in all parts of the kingdom, on this question. Although they did not wish inconveniently to hurry the Government, they expected to be told frankly and clearly what course was intended to be taken.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as far as he was acquainted with the wishes of the Dissenters, they never would agree that Church-rates should be paid out of the general revenues of the country. Means to pay them ought to be found in the sinecure revenues of some of the deans and chapters.
 Lord John Russell  remarked, that that was a question upon which the House had not yet come to any decision.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he did not rise in a spirit of either personal or party opposition to his Majesty's Ministers, but simply to consider the abstract merits of the proposition before them: to discuss the question whether, having a specific amount of surplus revenue to dispose of, it was more consistent with the general interests of the country to apply that disposable revenue in reduction of the duty on soap, or in reduction of the duty on newspapers. To this question he should strictly confine himself, without entering into any discussion as to the proposed penny duty. The simple question was, whether they should not substitute for the right hon. Gentleman's proposition to reduce the stamp duty on newspapers, the hon. Gentleman's proposition to reduce that on soap. There was, perhaps, some little difficulty in explaining clearly why a preference should be given to the reduction of one duty instead of another, but there were certain principles which ought to govern the reduction, and these principles were so clear and so obviously just that few would venture to deny them. The first great principle was, that in effecting your reductions you should reduce that duty first, a diminution or repeal of which would effect the greatest proportion of benefit to the greatest extent—to consult the advantage of the whole community in preference to the advantage of a part. Another principle was this, that you should continue the burden as much as possible upon the luxuries and diminish it as much as possi-
 637 638 l., l.; l.; l.; l.; 639 l., l., l.; l. 640 d., d. 641 s. d. s. d. d. d. d. 642 "Non meus hic sermo." 643 The Morning Chronicle The Times, d. d. 644
 The Chairman : I am really very sorry to call the hon. Member's attention again to the words which he made use of, but I must beg to repeat it, and in doing so I am in the hands of the Committee, to be corrected if I am wrong, that the language which fell from the hon. Member was such as was never permitted to be used in this House.
 The Chairman  (Mr. Bernal) was quite sure the hon. Member could not be aware of the word which had just fallen from him.
 The Chairman : In answer to the appeal which has been made to me, I beg to observe, that the Chairman of a Committee has, when called upon, but one course to pursue with reference to such a question as the present, and that is, when an hon. Member misconducts or misbehaves himself, the Chairman is imperatively bound by his duty, if the hon. Member refuses to offer any explanation of, or apology for his conduct, to report the matter to the Speaker for the exercise of his superior authority. I hope I shall never be found wanting in the performance of that duty whenever I sec the necessity of applying for the superior jurisdiction of the Speaker.
 The Chairman : as the hon. Member for Middlesex has moved that I should report progress, and as he has made as the
 657
 The Chairman : Really, I must say that the repetition of these terms is a further trespass on the decorum which should be observed in the proceedings of this House.
 Lord J. Russell : As the noble Lord, the Member for North Devonshire, has moved that the Chairman report progress, and that the expressions used by the hon. Member be reported to the House, I wish to state what was the manner in which I conceive the hon. Member received the opinion expressed by the Chairman. I understood him to have said, that he withdrew entirely the expression which was complained of. I must say, however, likewise, that I don't think it was mentioned by the Chairman that the conduct of the hon. Member, after what he said to the hon. Member for North Wiltshire, was disrespectful to the House. But the hon. Member so immediately withdrew the expression which has been complained of, that I should suppose he will not hesitate to express his regret if his conduct should be considered disrespectful to the House. I am sure it will be more satisfactory to the whole House, if the hon. Member will take some means of
 659
 Mr. Charles Barclay  seconded the amendment. The amount of revenue obtained by the soap duties was 799,000 l. l.; l. l. l. 617 618 619
 Mr. Charles Buller  thought, that the right hon. Gentleman had shown very little acquaintance with the press of other countries. He was as little inclined as any man to give the palm of superiority to any other nation, but he should blush for our literature if he thought it as much inferior as he considered the daily press of this country was inferior to that of France. He would say that, at the present moment, there was no person of high political and literary character connected with the press of this country, who could at all compare in this respect with that distinguished writer M. Chateaubriand. The right hon. Gentleman opposite feared the character of the press of this country would be lowered, and he contended that there would
 645 l. l. 646 647 d. 648
 Mr. Shaw  then moved, by way of rider, a clause to prohibit grocers from selling spirits by retail for consumption on their premises; but to enable them to sell spirits in quantities exceeding two quarts, to be consumed elsewhere.
 Mr. Shaw  moved a proviso to the 3rd Clause, to prevent retailers from selling spirits on Sundays.
 Mr. Handley  wished to say a few words in explanation of the reasons which should induce him to vote against the proposition of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Sir C. Knighlley). He begged to assure the Committee that he did not consider that proposition as conferring any been upon the farmer, even if it were carried to the full extent recommended by that hon. Member. In saying this, he might, he thought, lay claim to sincerity, for he had always been a friend to the agricultural interest, and he had never allowed himself to be influenced by party or political considerations in delaying to bring forward any motion, which, in his opinion, would tend to its relief. Upon a former occasion the motion which he (Mr. Handley) had brought forward on this subject, was accompanied with a proposition for an increased duty on foreign tallow: but while it was his object, as he had frankly owned at the time, to confer relief upon the agricultural interest, he did not consider himself justified in taxing the whole community for the benefit of a particular interest without offering them some advantage as an equivalent: and he had therefore proposed the Repeal of the Soap Tax—a tax which he considered extremely objectionable. He was glad on that occasion, to hear his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, give him a promise that he would, as soon as possible, endeavour to relax those shackies, to which, of all manufacturers,
 652 d., d.
 Mr. Buckingham  observed, that a great portion of the crime which prevailed in the country originated in ignorance. The people had not information, and although they had a vast body of laws, the people were not informed of them. Another pregnant evil which resulted from the present system was, that it was in the beer-shop and the gin-shop only that the operative could obtain the perusal of a newspaper. With regard to the counter-proposition of the evening, he was not disposed to deny the advantages of having a cleanly population, but he thought it much more important that they should be instructed, for they would then soon find but the value of cleanliness themselves. As long as the present heavy tax was imposed upon newspapers, an enormous circulation was required before the publishers were repaid, and the consequence was, that they had to pander to ail sorts of tastes in order to find sufficient readers; there was foreign news for one class, scandal for another, abuse for the third. The poorer classes of persons were per-
 651 ad valorem
 Mr. Kearsley : I am very sorry that the hon. Member for Bath having charged me with what is not true, I cannot characterize his speech by other terms. [ "Order! Chair!"
 Mr. Kearsley  —Sir, all I can say is, that as I can't swim in the same water with the hon. Gentlemen opposite, they may construe the expression as they please.
 Mr. Kearsley  bogged to assure the hon. and learned Member for Bath, that he was not one of those who cried out "oh!" during the speech of the hon. and learned Member. He (Mr. Kearsley) had really never noted anything that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member; he had never condescended to do so. He would, however, ask the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with what pleasure they had just listened to the disgusting speech of the hon. and learned Member for Bath.
 Mr. Kearsley : Sir, I am quite aware that I might have used language stronger than the circumstances required. I admit that the language was strong; but I must say, that a more disgusting speech I never heard.
 Mr. Kearsley : Sir, when the hon. Member for North Wiltshire (Mr. Paul Methuen) thinks proper so precipitately to interrupt me, I am tempted to exclaim, "Paul! Paul! why persecutest thou me?' [The hon. Member left his seat, and walked
 656
 Mr. Kearsley : I am extremely sorry if I have done anything unpleasant to the Committee, and I beg leave to withdraw the expression which I made But when the hon. Member for North Wiltshire cries out at my mode of walking over the floor—I beg to assure the House again, that I had not the least possible intention of giving offence by my conduct on this occasion.
 Mr. Kearsley  said, if the expression which I used is not agreeable to the taste of the Committee, I beg leave to withdraw it. But I presume, Sir, I have a right to say, that I heard that speech with disgust.
 Mr. Roebuck : I trust the House will permit the debate to proceed, and make allowance for what must be looked upon as an infirmity of the hon. Member opposite.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose, amidst loud cries of "Divide," "Divide," "Withdraw." The present question, said the hon. and learned Member, was not a question of revenue, but a question of party politics. It was a part of the politics of the party on the other side of the House to keep up that despotic rule, the fruits of which they had so long enjoyed. The party on his (the Ministerial) side of the House were anxious to free the people of this country from the
 653 654 The Times, John Bulls Ages The Age The John Bull,
 Mr. Walter  felt it his duty to address the House on a subject upon which he could give some practical information.
 Mr. Walter  said, that having, from former engagements, some practical knowledge upon the subject under discussion, he felt it his duty to give an opinion to the House. First, however, he might be excused for saying a word or two with reference to those classes of the people who were said to be the most interested in the decision of the House. With respect to those classes—namely, the working classes —he would not yield to any one in feeling for their interests, and in endeavours to support their rights and ameliorate their condition; and if, on the present occasion, he might be thought to vote against them, he was sure it would be found in the result that his vote and opinion were not given against them, but against those who were endeavouring to mislead them. With respect to the removal of taxes generally, if the right hon. Gentleman who presided over the finances of the country could spare any one or more of the taxes, he thought he would better look to those which pressed upon the comforts and necessaries of the people, rather than one which was said to press upon their knowledge. This, also, was very clear, that if they were disposed to give the people more political knowledge, they must also give them more time; that is, they must to a degree exempt them from their daily avocations to read the daily press, as well as to put the productions into their hands. If he might be allowed to give his opinion, the cry that had been set up on this subject by no means merited that attention which had been paid to it. Petitions for the total repeal of what were called taxes on knowledge had been profusely transmitted to the country for signature, by societies in London; but in the count}' which he had the honour to represent they were utterly disregarded. He recollected hearing a plan of Lord Althorp's when he was finance Minister, which it appeared might be practically Useful to the public, without being very
 660 d. 661 662 663
 Mr. Hume : I rise to order, Sir. I wish to ask you, Sir, as Chairman, whether the proceedings of this House are to be conducted in the disorderly manner in which they have been this evening. Again, Sir, as our Chairman, you have declared, (and we are prepared to support you in the opinion,) that the words used by the hon. Member for Wigan, are unbecoming of him in his present situation. The only course left you, then, Sir, as Chairman, is I apprehend, to call upon the hon. Member to retract the words; and in case of his refusing to do so, I think that you are called upon to put in force the authority vested in you as Chairman. I think a further apology is due from the hon. Member for his conduct as it regards the House; for since I have had a seat in Parliament I have never seen an hon. Member leave his place, and behave in the manner which the hon. Member has behaved this night. Sir, it is the duty of the Chairman, for the sake of preserving the dignity of our proceedings, to call upon the hon. Member to make that apology which, in my opinion, he is bound to give.
 Mr. Hume : I move, Sir, that you report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Hume : I have no hesitation in saying, that my complaint refers to the observations which the hon. Member made use of with respect to my hon. Friend, the Member for Bath, and which you yourself strongly reprobated. I did not hear what the hon. Member said before he uttered the objectionable expression to which I refer; but I did hear him mate use of the phrase "disgusting speech," as applied to the address of my hon. Friend. Every hon. Member near me can, I believe, say that he also heard it, and will further support me, I am sure, in the assertion, that the conduct of the hon. Member, in leaving his seat and coming to the floor of the House, and, in fact, behaving himself in a manner in which I have never yet seen any hon. Member behave in this House, calls for some apology.
 Mr. Paul Methuen : I think it is due not only to this House but to the country, that the Chairman should declare whether the language of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Kearsley) is such as should be addressed to this House, or such as it is becoming in us to hear, without reprehension. I tome here to do my duty to my constituents, and not for the purpose of listening to language which is unbecoming the dignity of this House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in replying to the observations made by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Northamptonshire, he should not only state his objections to the amendment, but, at the same time, he should also give the reasons which induced him to prefer his own proposition and to recommend it to the House, and which he trusted would induce the House to sanction it. Before, however, he went into the observations which he intended to make on this part of the subject, he would make a few remarks in reply to what had fallen from his hon. Friend who had just sat down. The hon. Member had asserted that he did not bring forward the proposition which he had submitted to the House, in consequence of preferring it, but because it had been forced on him by a certain number of Members of Parliament who sat behind him, and who generally gave their support to the Government. In reply to this assertion, he would only say, that he never would make a proposition in that House which he did not conscientiously think would be for the benefit of the country. Let there be a confederacy on one side for obtaining the total abolition of the stamp duty on newspapers, and on the other side for the continuance of the present duty, and instead of it a reduction of the soap duty, he would merely say that it was his duty to do that which he believed to be most beneficial, without regard to the consideration, whether his proposition would be successful or not, on this side of the House or the other. The hon. Gentleman had very slightly observed what had been going on, if he thought that the proposition had been forced on him. During: the sixteen years that he had been in Parliament, he had never met with so much abuse and obloquy, both spoken and written, as had recently been heaped upon him by certain hon. Gentle-
 620 621 l., l. l. 622 d. d. d, d. minimum 623 624 l.; l.; l.; l.; l. The Spectator, "This is the day on which many eminent authors will probably publish their last words. I am afraid that few of our weekly historians, who are men that, above all others, delight in
 625 * * The Standard The Morning Chronicle The Lancet 626 627 628 629 630 631 d., d. d., d; d.; d.; d. d.; d. 632 d. d. d., d. d. d.; 633 l. d., 634 l. 635 d. d., 636
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I am sure, Sir, there must be but one feeling pervade all the Members of this House with regard to the mode of our conducting our discussions, and that is, that unless our opinions and views are expressed in proper and decorous language, we shall not only lose the respect of society at large, but a considerable interruption will also be afforded to the course of public business. The occurrence which has taken place stands thus: an observation has been made by the hon. Member for Wigan, and it is to him that I wish particularly to address myself, in reply to the speech delivered by the hon. Member for Bath, which was such as to call down upon him, in my mind justly, (and I believe in the opinion of the majority justly also,) your censure, Sir, and your statement, that his observation was unparliamentary and unbecoming. Undoubtedly, then, the only course left you, is to bring it under the consideration of the Speaker; that is, if you be driven to such an alternative. But when the hon. Gentleman opposite has heard from the Chairman of the Committee the uncontradicted opinion, which I may, therefore, take to be the opinion of the whole Committee, that his proceedings and observations have been unparliamentary, and open to your censure, Sir, I do trust the hon. Gentleman will do that which will save the House all further trouble on this question, that which I venture to say he will himself feel it his duty to do— namely, by submitting to the expressed
 658
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Stamp and Excise Acts.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that on a former day he had generally stated his views as to the reduction of the duty on newspaper stamps; subsequently the hon. Baronet, the Member for Northamptonshire, had expressed his intention to substitute a partial reduction of the duty on soap. He had then promised that the discussion should be taken in such a shape as to enable the hon. Baronet fairly and fully to present his motion, and accordingly the House had now resolved itself into a Committee, not only on the Stamp Act, but on the Excise Acts. What he meant to do this night was to submit a single resolution, that it is expedient that the duty on newspapers should be reduced from 4 d., d. 613 d. d.,
 Sir Charles Knightley  rose to move the amendment of which he had given previous notice. His proposition was, to reduce the duty on soap. The hon. Member for Lincolnshire had some time ago brought forward a motion to abolish altogether the duty on soap; and the only argument with which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had resisted that motion was, that it could not be granted with a due regard to the public revenue. He only proposed to take off a small portion of that duty; and it was only necessary for him to prove that the reduction of the duties on soap would be more beneficial than the reduction of the duties on newspapers. First of all, the reduction of the duties on soap would be a benefit to the farmer. The reduction of the duty would increase the consumption of the article on which it was imposed, and that would increase the demand for home produce, by increasing the demand for fat of animals. It had been said that the farmers did not at present stand in need of relief. He admitted that they were now better off than they were formerly; but he was afraid that their present prosperity was only a fleeting dream, a gleam of sunshine which would soon disappear. When the farmers asked relief to a large amount,
 614 d. d. Times, Standard, Morning Post, Morning Herald Globe, 615 d. d. 616 d. d. d., d. d.
 Mr. H. Bulwer : I think, Sir, under the circumstances of the present case, you are called upon to exert that authority which you possess of reporting these proceedings to the Speaker.
 Lord Ebrington  rose, and said: The apology which the hon. Member has given is not one such as I conceive is due to the House, after the manner in which the decorum of its proceedings has been infringed upon. I must, therefore, Sir, unless the hon. Gentleman thinks proper to make a more satisfactory apology to the Committee, beg leave to move that you report progress, and report this matter to the Speaker.
 Lord Morpeth  saw no reason for departing from the understanding already announced, and should therefore oppose the motion. He feared it was out of the power of Parliament to prevent the drinking of spirits on Sundays; and the consequences of prohibiting the sale of the article at houses over which the magistrates had control, would be to send the consumer to much worse places.
 Lord Sandon  referred to the report of the Excise Commissioners respecting the reduction of the duty on soap, to show that it had not the effect ascribed to it by the hon. Member for Liskeard. In the course of the observations made by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not one word was said by that right hon. Gentleman of the manner in which his plan for equalising the duties on Irish newspapers was received, nor was the House told of the number of public meetings called in that country to exclaim against it. It was his opinion as to the soap duty, that its reduction would be beneficial to the country at large. By repealing that duty it would get rid of a great many vexatious Excise regulations. With respect to the press he felt bound to say this, that he was greatly surprised to hear the hon. and learned Gentleman say, that newspapers which were inferior in price to the English newspapers were superior to them in talent. One who had travelled recently in America did not concur with him in that opinion, for he declared that every vulgar fool who could call names, might set himself up as a newspaper editor:—"Our newspaper and periodical press is bad enough. Its sins against propriety cannot be justified, and ought not to be defended. But its violence is weakness, its liberty restraint, and even its atrocities are virtues, when compared with that system of brutal and
 649 650 d., d.
 Colonel Thompson  presented a petition from the Radical Association of Hull, signed by 1,400 persons, complaining of the Poor-law Bill and the Corn-laws, and of the burthens thrown on the industrious and poorer classes, who were taxed for the little luxuries they could consume, twenty times more than the rich. On the last point he should be glad to accede to an arithmetical correction; for after having paid considerable attention to the subject, he was unable to state any instance in which the disproportion between the poor and rich was more than twelve to one. They prayed also for the repeal of those clauses in the Poor-law Act that pressed harshly on the poor—that one-third of the tithes should be appropriated to their support, and that those charitable bequests which had been hitherto roguishly absorbed by the clerical and lay aristocracy, should be appropriated to their proper uses. The hon. Member said, that the petition was certainly expressed in strong language, and the warmth which animated the petitioners had induced them to use one word, for
 670
 The Speaker : The hon. Member, in presenting this petition, did state, and he stated it most correctly, that there were expressions in it which were exceptionable. The House, I am sure, is, and ever has been, at all times most ready to receive petitions from any quarter; but it is, I contend, a very grave question for the House to consider, whether they will receive a petition which contains a charge of so gross a nature against any class in the country. I am sure, however, that on reflection the hon. Member will himself see that the House cannot, consistently with a sense of its own dignity, allow language to be addressed to any body of persons, which it would not allow to be addressed to itself.
 Colonel Thompson  said, there were two points which he conceived to be of duty. One was, that he should submit the petition of his constituents; the other that he should not disguise from the House the strength of any of its expressions. He submitted that the word objected to was used in a general sense, and that it would be better to allow the people to express their complaints as they felt them.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  rose to order. He agreed that it was desirable that the people should have the fullest opportunity to state their complaints to that House, but then they should do so in decent and becoming language. He would, therefore, suggest to the hon. and gallant Member to withdraw the petition, and have the obnoxious terms modified; and he was confident that the petitions, on the recommendation of the hon. and gallant Member, would have no objection to do so. Such offensive terms had better be avoided in petitions, and the absence of them would enforce more respect for the prayers of the petitioners.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  remarked that the allusion of the petitioners to charitable bequests had no reference to, but was totally distinct from tithes. The Corporation of Dublin, according to the Commissioners' Report, had a charitable bequest made to them, which he could aver was "roguishly" applied.
 Mr. Hume  was able to prove to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wynn), from reports on the Table, that charitable bequests had been "roguishly misapplied." A case was proved in Court this Session where in-
 671
 Mr. Ewart  said, that petitions had been frequently presented by hon. Members opposite, containing the terms "tyrannical and oppressive," as applied to hon. Friends at his side of the House, and he (Mr. Swart) could not perceive any great distinction between them. He did not think that the hon. Gentleman would rise and say that charitable funds had not been roguishly misapplied. He had no doubt that the allegations made by the petitioners could be fully sustained; and impressed with that feeling, he thought it more desirable to induce them to speak out rather than to take exception to the phrases in which they conveyed their just and well-founded complaints to the House.
 Mr. Goulburn  was of opinion that it would be extremely desirous for all parties coming before the House with their prayers to have their language couched in a decent and proper manner. He maintained it was not correct of the petitioners to impute roguishness to a particular class of individuals because certain individuals belonging to it might have done wrong. The hon. Member who had just sat down no doubt would consider it unjust if a crime having been committed by certain parties in Liverpool, the entire community in that town were to be stigmatised and disgraced.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that they would be unworthy to be considered as the Representatives of a free people, if they objected to receive the petition. What did the Commissioners of corporate inquiry say, on the subject of charitable bequests throughout the country? They were not over-choice of the phraseology which they used on the occasion, the phraseology used by the petitioners was somewhat strong, but it was only what they deemed necessary to convey a proper notion of their detestation of those enactments of which they complained. He for one would declare that charitable trusts had been grossly misapplied.
 Sir James Graham  said, that very strong language might he used in a petition without its being objectionable: but he was sure the House would see the necessity and propriety for putting some term, for
 672
 Mr. Roebuck  concurred in offering the same suggestion to the gallant Member for Hull. He thought "dishonestly" was a term that might have been employed.
 Dr. Bowring  suggested that the Speaker should state his opinion as to whether the language was unparliamentary or not.
 The Speaker : Then I can have no hesitation in declaring that the hon. Member would exercise a sound discretion in withdrawing the petition for the present. The House will only act wisely and consistently with that character which it should maintain, by always enforcing a proper spirit of decorum, not merely on all occasions within its own walls, but in all documents and petitions that are addressed to it.
 Colonel Thompson  said, that he had waited for nothing but a suggestion from the Chair. He would therefore, withdraw the Petition.
 Mr. Heathcote  also warmly repelled the accusation as regarded parties from whom he had presented petitions, and who were incapable of the practices imputed by the hon. Member for Perthshire. Some of the petitioners were most respectable country gentlemen and yeomen.
 Mr. Pryme : After what my hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General, has said, I beg to withdraw my motion. My only object in bringing it forward was to give the House an opportunity of expressing their opinion upon the subject.
 Mr. Maclean  rose to propose a motion of which he had given notice, "that the 3rd section of the clause relating to the question of qualification, be restored to the Bill." The object of the Reform Bill was not only to secure the representation of numbers, but of property also; but by the present state of the law many an honest voter was deprived of his franchise, although possessed of the requisite qualification, while others, who since their first registration had parted with their property, were enabled still to vote. It was also pretty well known that property was often conferred upon parties at the time of registration in order to make a vote for those who
 697
 The Chairman  suggested, that the amendment was applicable to the clause following before the Committee: amendment deferred; the clause agreed to.
 Mr. George F. Young  expressed his willingness to support the amendment, if it were so modified as to meet the case of borough electors. It often happened that persons were deprived of their votes, not because they had no qualification, but simply because they had changed their place of residence; while others, who had become insolvent and retained no part of the qualification on which they were originally registered, came up and exercised the franchise; and not unfrequently would a man, after he had entirely left the place, as well as lost the property, return and vote at an election upon the qualification originally registered. These things he conceived to be entirely at variance with the principles of the Reform Act and of justice, and means ought to be taken to put a stop to them.
 Mr. Winthrop Praed  moved the omission of all the words after the words, "shall have tendered his vote at such election." The purport of the words so proposed to be left out was to restrict the power of Committees on election petitions to decide upon the right of parties to vote to cases "in which the name of such person shall have been specially retained upon the register, or inserted therein, or expunged or omitted there from, by the express decision of the Revising Barrister, or by the decision of the Court of Appeal," and also to cases of alleged legal incapacity of the person at the time of voting, by virtue of any Act now or hereafter to be in force, or which may have arisen subsequently to the making out of the register; in all other cases the register of voters in force at the time of election to be final and conclusive. He objected to this provision, as unequal and partial in operation. By adopting this rule, it would happen that in case of a disputed return for a borough which had been long subject to severe contested elections, and the register of which had consequently been thoroughly examined and disputed before the Revising Barrister, and was likely, therefore, to be the more correct, the Committee of this House would again undertake the task of examining and revising the list, thus doubling the expense and the trouble of those who had already had sufficient of both in endeavouring to make the register perfect. On the other hand, in the case of a borough, which had not been contested for some time previous, and the register of which had consequently been neglected by the constituents—this case, where no trouble had been gone to by the parties in order to obtain accuracy, where no expense had been incurred in disputing claims before the Revising Barrister—in such a case as this, where the greatest inaccuracy might reasonably be expected to prevail in the lists, no investigation was allowed to the Committee on the subject; and the parties who had spared themselves any trouble and expense
 699
 The Earl of Lincoln  objected to this clause, on the ground that a voter, residing at a distant part of the county, might be unable in unfavourable weather to exercise his franchise; he wished that the consideration of the clause should be postponed.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that there might be some imaginary cases in which parties might not be able to come to the poll, but it was impossible to legislate for every contingency that might be suggested, and he thought that the balance of convenience was in favour of the retention of the clause.
 Lord Granville Somerset  contended, that if this clause were to be allowed to stand part of the Bill, it would debar the freeholders in many cases from exercising their rights to vote. It was not at all an extraordinary case, that an individual living on the borders of the counties should have property in each, and how was he to vote in respect to that property, if the poll was to be limited to one day? Besides, it would be giving the freeholders of the town in which the polling booth was erected, an immense advantage over the country freeholders. As to the argument which had been used on a former occasion in favour of this measure, that bribery was more successfully brought into play after the first day's poll, he must say that there were very few instances of bribery in counties. He did not see that there was any inconvenience from the excitement of the second day's poll, because the great struggle was made the first day, and the polling was always carried on languidly on the second day of polling. He should, therefore, decidedly oppose the clause.
 Lord Ebrington  thought, that if power were given to the magistrates or the sheriff,
 700
 Mr. Baines  observed, that in the last contested election for the West Riding of Yorkshire, where there was a body of 18,000 electors, and the extent of the district was not less than eighty miles in length, and from fifty to sixty miles in breadth, there would not have been the least difficulty in taking the whole of the votes in one day, and, in fact, a very few driblets of voters came up in the course of the second day. The whole body of electors, 18,000 in number, was polled out
 701
 Mr. Charles Ross  remarked, that this clause embodied a disputed principle, and it would surely be most proper to have the question discussed in a separate form, and as a separate measure, and not to mix it up with details relating merely to the registration of votes. There might be many persons who objected to this part of the Bill, who agreed in thinking the clauses relating to registration expedient, and he would really put it to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it would not be better to withdraw the clause, and treat it as a separate measure.
 Lord J. Russell  entirely agreed with the object which this clause had in view, but it was perhaps worthy of consideration, whether it would not be most convenient to deal with it as a separate Bill.
 Sir J. Graham  proposed an amendment, which was rendered necessary in consequence of the loose manner in which the 25th Clause of the Reform Act was worded. Till that Act was passed, leaseholders for a term of years had no franchise. A lease for lives was held to be equivalent to a freehold; but if it was terminable at a less period it was not so. For the first time, under the Reform Act, copyholds of 10 l. 702 l. l. l.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  proposed, that this amendment, which was very important in itself, and very complicated in its wording, should be postponed for future consideration. It was taking hon. Members by surprise to call upon the Committee to pass it when thus suddenly pressed upon its notice.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that as this amendment had been on the notice-paper for more than a month, it could not fairly be said that it took the House by surprise. He fully agreed in the propriety of the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland.
 Mr. Pryme  denied that, there was any fraudulent object in this species of voters for counties.
 Lord J. Russell  agreed with his right hon. Friend that the object of the framers of the Reform Bill was to prevent the
 703
 Mr. Hurst  objected to this amendment. It would have a much more extensive operation than the right hon. Baronet intended, and would act most injuriously to the interests and franchises of all subtenants.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if this matter were tried on the intentions of the framers of the Reform Act, the parties whom the right hon. Baronet opposed were not entitled to have votes for counties; but if it were to be tried on the merits, undoubtedly they ought to have them. It was intended by the Reform Act that property should be represented, and these parties having property in the county were entitled to the franchise. He should therefore oppose this amendment, and vote for retaining the clause as it stood at present in the Reform Act.
 Mr. Jervis  was also opposed to the amendment. There was no objection on the part of the right hon. Baronet and his friends on the opposite side of the House, to let the landlords split their farms, so as to create as many votes as they could. It WHS well known that the landlords had availed themselves to the utmost of that power, and they only objected to it because they found that the landlords in towns were endeavouring to remedy that evil by availing themselves of their property for the same purpose. If the wording of the Reform Act had given this franchise to the holders of property in towns, he saw no reason why it should now be taken from them to please the right hon. Baronet and his friends on the other side of the House.
 Mr. Brotherton  would like to say to the Committee, "It is now 12 o'clock;" but as those words might perhaps be considered objectionable, he would only say, that he should oppose this amendment, as to his knowledge it would disfranchise nearly a thousand good votes in the town and neighbourhood of Manchester.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought that it would produce the same effect in Birmingham. He hoped that the right hon. Baronet would therefore withdraw his amendment, for as a Reformer the right hon.
 704
 Sir James Graham  had not said, that these votes were fraudulent. He had only said, and he must still maintain, that they were fictitious votes.
 Mr. Brotherton  moved that the Chairman do now report progress.
 The Earl of Lincoln  moved, that the House do now adjourn. His reason was, that as his Majesty's Ministers thought that the time had arrived for reporting progress, it was clear that, in their opinion, the time must also have arrived for the adjournment of the House.
 Lord John Russell  said, as the noble Lord (Lincoln) seemed to demand from him an explanation of his vote, he would state, that his opinion, as he had already mentioned was, that the clause of the Reform Act was entirely in conformity with the view stated by his right hon. Friend, the Member for Cumberland (Sir James Graham). In the course of the discussion, however, his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General, stated to him that he thought that there ought to be a further consideration of the original clause before the amendment moved by the right hon. Baronet, was agreed to. His hon. and learned Friend thought the original words of the Reform Act to be so extremely plain as to render it necessary that there should be some further consideration before it was determined whether any and what words might be required to be introduced to fill up any obscurity in the clause as it now stood. Having received that opinion from his hon. and learned Friend, he (Lord J. Russell) certainly took part with him, and consequently voted for the Motion, that the Chairman do report progress. He felt himself perfectly justified in taking that course, and he was quite indifferent to any interpretation which the noble Lord or the hon. Gentleman opposite might put upon his vote.
 Sir James Graham : If the noble Lord had intimated, in the most distant manner, that he should have had no objection to the amendment, if upon further consideration it appeared necessary to carry out the original intention of the Act, he (Sir James Graham) should at once have requested permission of the House to withdraw the clause. If he now understood from the noble Lord that the clause would not be
 705
 Lord John Russell  stated, that believing, as he did, the intention of the clause, as originally framed, to have been such as his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham) had stated, if upon further consideration it should appear that such a clause as that proposed by the right hon. Baronet was necessary to carry that intention into effect, he should certainly feel bound to support it.
 The Earl of Lincoln  withdrew his motion, which allowed the House to complete some routine business before it adjourned.
 Sir George Clerk  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Rice) relative to the duty on paper. The House was aware, that in consequence of the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he would not allow any draw-hack on paper in stock after the 10th of October, the trade had been almost entirely suspended. He trusted, however, the result of the notice given by the hon. Member for Middlesex would relieve the paper manufacturers from the embarrassment under which they at present suffered. He understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to propose, by way of palliation, that after a time to be fixed paper should be allowed to be taken from the mills, and remain in bond under certain regulations, without payment of the duty. He wished to know at what time the right hon. Gentleman meant to permit paper, under any and what regulations, to be carried out of the mills without payment of duty; because the premises of manufacturers being in many instances extremely limited, they would be unable to keep a large stock, or be exposed to very great inconvenience, if the trade were not brought to a complete stand-still.
 Mr. Pryme  begged to call the attention of the House to the Act of 1833, for the amendment of the law which referred it to the Judges to make certain rules relative to Pleading, subject to the approbation of that House. The most important perhaps of these rules was that which called on all parties to plead specifically and distinctly, and to put their defence plainly upon record. Notwithstanding this salutary provision there had been a clause inserted in many Acts that had passed, such as Acts relating to fisheries, omnibuses, and many others, for the purpose of allowing parties to plead the general issue, and yet give special matter in evidence. The plain English of such a clause was, that the defendant was to be enabled to take advantage of the plaintiff by surprise, that he was not to let him know his case till the hour of trial, and then he was to be permitted to bring forward evidence of which he was not aware, and which, had he been aware of it, he would have been prepared with evidence to rebut; and by these means the defendant was, perhaps, enabled to snap a verdict contrary to the real merits of the case. He had just heard that the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Sir W. Follett) had it in contemplation to propose a Bill to remedy this evil. Had he been aware of the fact sooner, he would have taken an opportunity of conferring with that hon. and learned Gentleman; but at present he would content himself with moving, "That it is contrary to the spirit and intention of the Statute 3rd and 4th Wm. 4th, chap. 42, sect. 11, and to the rules of the Judges founded thereon, to introduce into Bills a clause enabling persons sued for any act under the same, to plead the general issue, and to give the special matter in evidence."
 Mr. Fox Maule  wished merely to add, that he too had received numerous communications, stating that many petitions had been got up by the influence of clerks and treasurers of various trusts; and that gentlemen, who, he was sure, were incapable of anything like jobbing, had been induced to sign representations against particular clauses of the Bill.
 Mr. Fox Maule  replied, that in consequence of the great anxiety said to prevail respecting the Bill, he had felt it his duty to consider whether he could persevere in it during the present Session. Looking at the position of the measure, and the state of public business, he thought it better at once to state, that it was not his intention to proceed further with it this year. Deeply impressed as he had been, and still was, with the great advantages that would result from passing the Bill, it was not without great regret that he parted with it, and he only did so with the full intention of renewing the motion next Session. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to the op-
 675
 Lord Francis Egerton  begged to enter his protest against the uncalled-for and unfounded imputation thrown out by the hon. Member. He had uniformly told petitioners from the part of the country he represented, to wait until the Bill came out of the Committee before they remonstrated against it; but he did not expect to have to tell them also that they had been made the objects of so sweeping and so unmerited an attack.
 Mr. Hanbury Tracy  said, he should bow to the decision of the Chair.
 Mr. Hanbury Tracy  said, that having been a member of the Commission, he wished to make a few observations in reference to this petition. He did not think that the petitioners pursued a wise or judicious course in presenting such a petition, and certainly, if they wished to prevent all future chance of general competition on subjects like this, they had done that which was best calculated to carry such a wish into effect. It was true, that the petitioners did not attack the moral character of the Commissioners, they only impeached their want of judgment in the selection they had made. Reports, however, had been put into circulation of the most unfair nature towards the Commissioners. They were represented as having been guided in their selection of Mr. Barry's plan, not by the honourable motives that should influence honourable men in the situation they were placed, but by some particular bias for that individual. Now, the fact was, that he never had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Barry until he had the pleasure of mentioning to him that he was the successful candidate. No Commission had ever more zealously endeavoured to do its duty as far as its judgment would allow it. Every means had been used to prevent favouritism, or the remotest chance of favouritism. He had himself proposed measures for that purpose in the Committee, before the Commission was named; and with regard to his fellow-Commissioners, there was only one of them with whom he was acquainted, until they had entered on their duties. The question of selection did not rest alone with the Commissioners. Their award had to be sanctioned by the King, and then by both Houses of Parliament. Not only had the two Houses of Parliament unanimously affirmed the judgment of the Commissioners, but he would challenge the hon. Gentleman and the petitioners to show that it had not met with the unanimous approval of the public. He was wrong in saying, that that House had been unanimous on the subject; undoubtedly, one Gentleman in the Committee had dissented from the award of the Commissioners, on the ground that the areas in the plan were neither squares nor parallelograms, and that the tower of 200 feet was calculated to throw a shade over the building. He might have expected that the hon. Member for Middlesex should have given him notice of this petition, but that courtesy was not observed towards him. He would, however, pass over that
 674
 Mr. Grote  said, that he bad a question to put to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of the Tea Duties. The House was aware, that on the 1st of July next, the duty on tea was to be raised from 1 s. d. s. d. 676
 Mr. Robinson  said, that so far as the Government had conceded the postponement of the payment of this money for a month, it had acted wisely; and so far as it had refused to remit the lower duties, it had performed its duty to the public.
 The Speaker  suggested, that under such circumstances the hon. Member had better reserve his statement for that occasion.
 The Speaker  said, he was not aware that any notice had been given on the subject.
 The Speaker : The hon. Member must be perfectly aware that the petition to which he has alluded, which was presented by the hon. Member for Tynemouth, had immediate relation to a case of personal feelings and supposed injury. The hon. Member for Finsbury will find, moreover, that in that instance, the hon. Gentleman who presented the petition gave a previous notice of his intention to do so; and thus the matter was brought before the House. The hon. Member for Finsbury has stated, that this subject will be brought before the House; and I again say, if he is about to state a variety of facts, then all other Members who may wish to take part in this discussion, will be at liberty to do so, to the great inconvenience of others who are waiting to present petitions.
 The Speaker : I call the attention of the hon. Member to the fact, that he has already declared that this matter will be brought under the consideration of the House in a substantive form. Now, if the hon. Gentleman is about to enter into a statement of facts, it is to he presumed that other hon. Members may wish to address the House upon those facts; and that the
 669
 Mr. Hume  hoped his hon. Friend would abstain from further observations at present, and that when the Poor-law Amendment Bill was brought before the House to have some defects in it corrected, that the hon. Member would not lose sight of the subject of which the petitioners complained. The system of farming, every one must admit, was highly objectionable, and required to be done away with; but the time to animadvert on it was, when it came in a substantial form before them.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had given notice that he would bring the subject forward as soon as the papers on the table of the House were printed.
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from the architects who had competed for the prizes offered by the Legislature for designs for the two Houses of Parliament, complaining of the conduct of the Commissioners in making their decision, and praying to be heard by counsel at the bar of the House on the subject. His own private opinion was, that such a power was not likely to be given to the petitioners. He certainly agreed with them in opinion, that the Commissioners should have laid down a certain rule as to the extent of the buildings. As soon as the Report of the Committee was laid on the table of the House, he should feel it his duty to call the attention of the House specially to the subject, and to recommend a plan very different from that of the Commissioners for erecting as soon as possible convenient and suitable buildings for both Houses of Parliament.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was aware that a copy of the petition had been transmitted to the hon. Member, and as his (Mr. Hume's) notice for presenting it was on the printed votes, he had not supposed it necessary to give the hon. Member a particular notice on the subject.
 Mr. Hume :* I rise, Sir, for the two-fold purpose—first, of calling the attention of the House to the petitions I lately presented from the parish of Mary-le-bone, and from the counties of Stafford and Chester, praying for an alteration in the present mode of assessing, levying and controlling the expenditure of the county-rates; and secondly, to move for leave to bring in a Bill in conformity with the prayers of those petitions, and in pursuance of the notice which I have already given. The object of the Bill is to separate the judicial from the financial affairs of the counties of England and Wales, and to authorize the rate-payers of counties to elect a certain number of representatives to form a County Board for the assessment, levying, and administration of the county-rates, and to perform those duties having reference to the financial expenditure of the counties, now executed by the Magistrates in Quarter-Sessions. At present there is not that sufficient check on the management of the county-rates which there ought to be, and which the ratepayers have a right to demand. This is owing to the inherent defects of the present system—the principle of which is, that those Magistrates who levy and direct the expenditure of the rates are independent of those who pay them. A Commission has been employed in investigating the expenditure of the county-rates, but their inquiries have been confined principally to prosecutions and the expense attendant on them, which have hitherto been defrayed from the county-rates. What I complain of is, that there is no responsibility, attached to any of the Magistrates who have the power of assessing and expending the rates—that there is not that wholesome check and control over the taxes in counties which has been lately extended to the Municipal Institutions of the country. A majority of this House
 ✶ 681 
 
 Statement of the Population in the Cities and Boroughs of Great Britain, which send Members to Parliament, the greater number of which recommend their own Magistrates through their Councillors. 
 No. of Cities and Boroughs. Population at the Census of 1831. No. of Electors enrolled 1832. 
 England 185 4,754,742 274,649 
 Wales 14 196,311 11,319 
 Scotland 76 865,007 31,322 
 Great Britain 275 5,816,060 317,290 
 
 Also a Statement of the Population of the Counties where the Magistrates are appointed by the Lord-Lieutenants, the people having no choice or control. 
 No. of Counties. Population at the Census of 1831. No. of Electors enrolled 1832. 
 England 40 8,336,263 344,564 
 Wales 12 609,871 25,815 
 Scotland 30 1,500,107 33,115 
 Great Britain 82 10,446,241 403,494 682 683 s. d. l. It appears that the assessment on which the county-rate is founded was made, from time to time, by the parish authorities of the respective patishes; that different parishes made the returns in different ways: that in some, the rating empty houses was objected to, and.
 Mr. Stewart Marjoribanks  was understood to say, that the tea trade were not satisfied with the conduct of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and could not thank him for the been which he professed that he conferred upon it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had no power to prevent agitation of this question more than of any other; but
 678
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the Treasury minute would be laid on the table in the course of the evening, when he should be most willing and happy to give any explanation which might be required of the principles by which he had been guided in this particular case. He trusted he should be enabled to justify the course he had adopted, and to show, however desirous Government might have been, and they were really most desirous to give any relief to the parties, which might be consistent with the maintenance of the general principles that should regulate the financial and commercial transactions of the country, they could not have gone further than they had already done. Before the question had been asked, he felt the matter to he one which it was fitting should he taken into favourable consideration, and he had
 679
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not mean to take the course which had just been suggested—the plan he meant to adopt was of another description, but intended to effect the same object, namely, the relief of the trade from that stagnation to which they had incidently become liable in consequence of the reduction of the duty. The course he meant to take was this: with respect to stained paper, he proposed the duty should cease on the 5th of July, and with respect to first class paper and milled boards, the reduction of duty should not take place till the 10th of October; but in the mean time, in order to relieve owners of paper mills from the necessity of having their premises burdened with too large a stock, it was proposed to allow them to pass paper into the stocks of the stationers, their customers, under the direction of the Board of Excise, the duty having been paid before it was issued from the mills; and any stock of that paper remaining unconsumed on the 10th of October, in the hands of the stationers, would entitle them to a return equal to the excess of duty on that denomination of
 680
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Those hon. Members who were acquainted with this subject, and who had heard the reply which he had given to this question on a former occasion, would anticipate the reply which he intended to give it now. His reply was, that however distressing it might be, that the parties holding large stocks of bohea tea should suffer —and no man could regret that they would suffer, more than he did—the departure from the provisions of an Act of Parliament, which the parties themselves had called for, would be a precedent full of inconvenience to the large mercantile community of which those individuals formed a part. If such a precedent were established, no man would know on what he had to depend. If a law made at one time could be altered at another, because the parties on whom it operated found it difficult to meet the payment of the duties which it imposed, there would be no end to the applications which would be made to him for such alterations in our fiscal statutes. He was therefore prepared now, as he was formerly, to give an unqualified negative to the proposition for affording to the holders of the stock of bohea now unsold an indefinite time for the payment of the duties on it. The House would recollect that their application was one of a very peculiar kind. It was to give them the full benefit of the late Act, so far as regarded the remission of duty, and to free them from the obligations of it, so far as regarded the duties that were raised. He would, however, inform the House of the determination to which the Treasury had come upon one part of this subject. It so happened that the alteration of the law had been made with the cognizance and at the suggestion of the parties now applying for relief. That alteration would make the payment of a considerable sum
 677 s. d.
 Mr. Wakley  rose to order. He begged to remind the Speaker that he (Mr. Wakley) had been interrupted, and prevented from making a statement regarding the poor in certain districts in the country, because the subject was afterwards to come before the House in the shape of a motion, and he submitted, that as the hon. Member for Middlesex had already given notice of a motion on this matter, the hon. Member should reserve his observations for that occasion.
 Mr. Wakley  was desirous of stating one fact of a particular nature.
 Mr. Wakley  was desirous of knowing by what rule the presentation of petitions to that House was regulated. It was only a few evenings ago that a petition was presented by an hon. Member from three officers of the East-India Company, praying for compensation, which led to a debate of an hour's duration, and he (Mr. Wakley) was prevented from mentioning a particular fact that would scarcely occupy a minute.
 Mr. Wakley  presented a petition, signed by forty medical practitioners, complaining of the contracts entered into for attending the poor-houses in the neighbourhood of Gloucester. The petitioners alleged, that instead of the practice being beneficial, it was attended with the most ruinous and cruel consequences to the poor, who were farmed out to the lowest bidder. The hon. Member stated, that when the subject was brought before the House, he would take the opportunity to express his sentiments on the abominable system, and he trusted that hon. Members would express themselves in such terms as would tend to its total abolition.
 Mr. Wyse  could not but congratulate his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, on his having brought forward such a measure as that which he had just moved for leave to introduce, which appeared to be in some measure founded upon the Irish Grand Jury Bill. It would be remembered that when some time ago a similar measure was introduced, it was said it could not be carried into effect. Since then the Municipal Corporation Acts had demonstrated the sense which the Legislature had of the importance of giving to the borough rate-payers control over their local affairs. And he rejoiced at seeing this measure introduced, as it seemed to be the first step towards extending that principle to the counties. He trusted that when it had been found applicable to England, it would not be long ere it was extended to Ireland also.
 Sir John Beckett  said, that great anxiety existed in all parts of the kingdom on the subject of a Bill introduced by the Under Secretary for the Home Department, for the consolidation of turnpike trusts. Members were in the daily habit of receiving communications, all of which deprecated the measure. He wished to know what course the hon. Member intended to take upon the subject.
 Sir John Beckett  observed, that he had received many communications on the subject from persons incapable of what the hon. Member termed jobbing.
 Mr. Eardley Wilmot : Sir, I do not object in the slightest degree to the proposition of the hon. Member for Middlesex, as it goes to exonerate the county magistrates from a portion of the onerous and painful duties which they now have to perform. With respect to the inequality of the rates in various counties, on which the hon. Member has dwelt at some length I must observe that it does not appear to
 694 695
 Sir R. Peel  was very anxious to know when the Treasury minute would be laid on the table. Undoubtedly, even in the present state of information which they possessed on the subject, there seemed some peculiarity in this case. The law fixed the 1st of July for the payment of the high duty; and the Treasury minute extended the period, obviously admitting the existence of some peculiarity in the circumstances of the parties. He did not wish to provoke a debate on the present occasion, hut he must say, the question had not been very fairly stated in the conversation which had already taken place. The parties, said the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. T. Rice), had full notice of the law. It ought to be recollected that orders for tea had been given before the law passed. The Bill was brought in late last Session; it did not become law till August, and then provided that on the 1st of July following a high rate of duty should be paid on certain teas. The orders having been given before the passing of the Act, and there being no power since the 1st of July last to order tea from China, the large stock at present on hand must have arisen under the impression that the old duty would be continued. Some of the parties, no doubt, had acceded to the passing of this Act, but others could not be bound by their acquiescence. On the whole, however, he was not prepared to say that the right hon. Gentleman had not done well in acting as he had. The special circumstances of the case deserved favourable attention, at least, to the extent granted by Government.
 The Solicitor-General  expressed his entire concurrence in all that had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, and he believed that he would receive the thanks of the profession and of the public at large for having brought it forward, There was
 696
 Viscount Sandon  did not wish to create a discussion, when, strictly speaking, there was no question before the House. He only rose to protest, on the part of his constituents, against being exposed to other more serious losses by any further changes in the duties on tea.
 Lord John Russell : Sir, I stated to the hon. Member, that though I should not object to his bringing in this Bill, it was not my intention to consent that it should go through any further stage at present. The ground on which I am not disposed to agree to it at present is, that I conceive its operation would be injurious to the ex tension of the Poor Law Amendment Bill, which I consider a most valuable Act, and which has been carried most successfully into operation in many places. This Parish Vestries Bill would, I am aware, very much interfere with, or do away altogether with, that Act in many parishes, therefore I certainly feel very much op posed to it. I shall not upon this occasion enter into the question which the hon. Member for Finsbury has raised, whether or not the system of voting by proxy is a just or desirable one: that may come hereafter more properly under discussion: all I say now is, that as I should be very sorry indeed to obstruct the working of the Poor-law Act; and as that would be the effect of this Bill, I hope it will not receive the sanction of the House.
 Mr. Hume  was as anxious as the noble Lord for the free and unfettered working of the Poor-law Act, but he did think the proposition of his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury, worthy of the consideration of the House. He (Mr. Hume) did not believe the present system of voting in parish vestries could be approved of by the noble Lord. And all his hon. Friend proposed to do was to go back to the old established law of the land, that every rate-payer had his vote; in place of the innovation introduced by Sturges Bourne's Act. But if the noble Lord really considered that the hon. Member's Bill would tend to obstruct the operation of the Poor-law Bill, he (Mr. Hume) should advise his hon. Friend to strike out of his Bill all that part of it which referred to Poor-law Unions, in order that no fear might exist of such con sequences resulting from it as the noble Lord anticipated. With that end, he hoped the noble Lord would consent to the Bill
 750
 Mr. Pease  felt himself bound to object to the second reading of the Bill, on the ground that its operation would be extremely mischievous in several parishes. He should most decidedly object to any measure tending to interfere with the pre sent mode of voting in parochial vestries. He therefore moved that the Bill be read a second time this day six months.
 Mr. O'Connell : The objection urged against the Bill by the noble Lord is intelligible enough; the opposition of the hon. Member for Durham is perfectly un intelligible. The principle of the Bill is the principle of the common law, that every rate-payer should have his vote. Does he object to that principle? If he does he objects to a recognised principle of the common law, and of common sense. The rate levied in a parish presses more heavily upon the poor man than upon the rich man: the poor man's shilling is in comparison as much as the rich man's pound. I repeat it, there must be some thing behind the opposition of the hon. Member—it is perfectly unintelligible. He may perhaps wish to out-vote his poorer neighbours by reason of the length of his purse; that is quite comprehensible. After all, what alteration can this Bill make in the working of the Poor-law Bill? We have had complaints that the mode of election under that Bill gives undue weight to particular properties against the aggregate, and all that is sought by this Bill is to alter the system of parish voting so as to make it conformable to the principles of the common law, and in favour of those who compose the majority of the rate-payers, and on whom, comparatively speaking, the burden of the rates falls. I do hope this Bill will be allowed to go into Committee, the House will then be able to examine its details, and if it be found that it will interfere with or prevent the working of the Poor-law Amendment Act, (though I do not believe it can,) we can exclude those parts of it which apply to that Act.
 Mr. Pryme  agreed with the hon. Member for Durham that the Bill of the hon. Member for Finsbury was one of a most objectionable nature, more particularly as regarded country parishes, as its effect would be to place the funds of many parishes at the disposal of thirteen or fourteen labourers, to the exclusion of the
 751
 Mr. Ward  asked, if, before the present system of voting was established, the effects were produced which the hon. Member for Cambridge anticipated from its repeal? And he would also ask if that system of voting had not everywhere been the constant source of ill-feeling and discontent. If so, would not the House support the hon. Member for Finsbury in an attempt to remedy evils which all must acknowledge, and which all must be anxious to remove. At the same time he (Mr. Ward) thought that if the Bill interfered with the working of the Poor-law Bill, it would have a bad effect. The present system of parish vestry voting had given to the great landowners, in his opinion, an influence which without it they would never have possessed, and which they ought not to have: it had produced many abuses, it had led to many evils, and he should therefore vote for the second reading of this Bill, in order that in Committee it might be there altered so as to make it as perfect as possible; but he did so with the express condition that in Committee he should be at liberty to oppose it, so far as it would affect the operation of what he considered a valuable Act.
 Mr. Hardy  hoped the Bill would be allowed to go into Committee, because he
 752
 Mr. Plumptre  would vote against the Bill. Dr. Bowring considered that the Bill of the hon. Member for Finsbury was no thing more nor less than a Bill carrying out the principle of the Reform Act, which was, that the rights of individuals were entitled to more respect than the rights of property. And on that ground alone he should vote for its second reading.
 Mr. Philip  Howard was favourable to the principle of the Bill, but considered that the proper course would be to bring the measure forward next Session by moving for a Committee to consider what alterations ought to be adopted in the present system of voting in vestries.
 Mr. Hawes  would support the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. As to the objection that it would tend to lessen the influence of property, he considered that the passing of the Poor-law Amendment Bill had completely cured any difficulty of that description.
 Mr. Goulburn  could not think it desirable that those who paid the smallest amount of rates should have the greatest amount of influence in the management of the parochial funds. He knew not much about the metropolitan districts, but in the country the present system had been most beneficial, inasmuch as it gave greatest influence to those who from their station, &c, were more likely to possess knowledge and general abilities requisite for enabling them to exercise that influence to the advantage of the whole parish. But the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for
 753 l. l. l.
 Mr. Benett  said, that as a country Gentleman, he could, from long experience, assert that no practical evil resulted from the present system of parish vestry voting. The effect of the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury would be to place in many instances the whole control of the funds of a parish at the disposal of ten or twelve labourers, whose influence could be purchased for ten or twelve quarts of beer, and who would be, therefore, easily excited by artful and designing men (of whom there were always enough in every parish), to enter into any hostile combination against the great landholders of the parish. He (Mr. Benett) need not point out the great practical evil which would result from such a state of things. Let the hon. Member for Finsbury legislate for his own borough if he pleased, but let him not interfere with country parishes.
 Major Beau clerk  was surprised at the assertion of the hon. Member who had just spoken, that those engaged in agricultural pursuits, and who resided in country parishes, could be bought for quarts of beer. He considered that such an assertion was an insult to the humbler classes inhabiting the rural districts. He should vote for the second reading and going into Committee on this Bill, because he believed the present system of voting in parish vestries to have been productive of the worst effects throughout the country.
 Mr. Potter  said, his knowledge of the operation of the present system of voting was confined to large towns, it was true; but he must say, in his opinion, it had operated most injuriously. In Manchester it had produced more disputes and ill-will among the inhabitants than almost any other subject. He should support the second reading of this Bill, in hopes of remedying the evils of the existing system.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he had passed a great part of his life in rural districts, and he had always found that the landed interest endeavoured to oppress those who were poorer than themselves.
 The Speaker  intimated that the hon. Member must confine himself to reply.
 Mr. O'Connell : An amendment has been put; the hon. Member may speak on that,
 Mr. Wakley  continued. He would observe, that in London (city) the Act which went by the name of Sturges Bourne's did not apply, nor in Southwark, nor in Marylebone, where a system of open voting had been introduced four years ago. If the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, was afraid that his Bill would interfere with the working of the Poor-law Amendment Act, he would make no objection to adopt the suggestion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex; but if the noble Lord would not consent to the measure with the alteration proposed he should certainly press his motion to a division.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he thought that the general wish of the House was, that any discussion upon the details should be deferred till a future stage. There had been an understanding on the part of the hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House, who had been present, that it would be more for the general convenience of the House that no debate should arise that evening; but in abstaining from a discussion, in this instance, he felt himself placed in a difficulty principally arising from the speech of his right hon. Friend, who had dealt so largely, and had expatiated so much upon the importance of showing to the people of Hindostan that as they were not represented in that House, there were, nevertheless, in it those persons who took an interest in their welfare, and were prepared to protect their commercial interests; and that right hon. Gentlemen had so carefully avoided all such allusions with reference to the West-Indians, that it became the more incumbent on those who felt an interest in our West-Indian possessions, to show that there were also persons in Parliament who felt a deep interest in that population—a population which was equally unrepresented, in that House with that of Hindostan. The people of the West-Indies were more particularly deserving of care and attention, because they were emerging from a comparative state of barbarity to a state of complete civilization. Yet not with standing the inducement to enter upon a discussion, he would forbear entering into the subject at any length. He thought, however, that they had some little reason to complain of his right hon. Friend for having proposed his plan at so late a period, seeing that when they should come to the consideration of the next stage of the proceeding, they would not have the opportunity of giving the question that sober deliberation which ought to be applied to it. This was the great difficulty in the case, for it was not merely a question of reduction of duty, or one of general principle only, as it was one which imposed the consideration of those various details upon which must mainly depend the successful working out of the plan of his right hon. Friend, for they were essential to the fulfilment of this object. And yet they were to be
 735 736
 Mr. O'Connell  had only one observation to make. He did not think that the hon. Member for Liverpool, in the excellent remarks which he had made, had stated the case so strongly as he might have done, in reply to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Cam bridge University, who apprehended some dangerous moral effects from the adoption of this measure. The West-Indian interest had been long prepared for this; and they had 20,000,000 l. bonus
 Mr. William Crawford  rose to remove the alarm which his right hon. Friend opposite seemed to entertain with respect to the introduction of foreign-grown sugars, under the change about to take place in the law. He would make one observation, which would, he thought, be conclusive on the point. There was in India but one port of export from which India-grown sugars could come—the port of Calcutta; and the history of that port did not afford an instance of the introduction of foreign sugars, for such a step would indeed have been "carrying coals to Newcastle." The certificate of origin could without difficulty be so managed as to preclude the possibility of imposition in that respect. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, in the views and explanations which he had given in respect to the time at which the East-Indian sugars would be admitted at the reduced duty. It would be satisfactory, perhaps, to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, to know that a period of nearly two years would elapse before any British-grown sugar from India could come in under the certificates of origin which the Act would require.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that it was hardly fair on the part of the right hon. Gentle man to taunt him with not opposing the resolution, after he had specifically risen on the understanding which had been thought to prevail — that it was not in accordance with the inclinations of the House that a discussion should take place, so many Gentlemen having expressed a desire that the other business of the even-
 745
 Mr. Thorneley  said, that the produce of the West Indies in sugar last year was much less than that of former years, yet they had received a million more than they did the year before, but that million was a, tax on the people of this country. He wished that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had gone somewhat further in his labours for their relief. He anticipated that the time would soon come when it would be necessary to relieve them of the tax on sugar altogether. He could assure the House that the merchants of Brazil were very much dissatisfied with our prohibition of their sugar and coffee, and had declared that if we continued our exclusive policy of keeping out all the produce of their soil except cotton, when the time of the present treaty expired we might expect to see a very high duty placed on every article of British manufacture admitted there.
 Mr. Robert Stewart  moved that the Bill be committed.
 Mr. Wallace  was in favour of the 5 1.
 Captain Gordon  agreed with the hon. Member for Kirkcudbright as to the effect of the 5th Clause.
 Mr. Morgan O Connell  thought the words proposed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, should be adopted, in order to guard against cases where a candidate might be  hardy
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  said, that head-money was corruption, and that as such it ought to be especially and separately mentioned.
 Mr. Fox Maule  approved of the manner in which his hon. Friend took up the Re port of the Commissioners, and of the measure he had founded upon it. He was not, however, disposed to agree to some of his amendments. He did not coincide with him as to the propriety of extending the power or sphere of taxation to the Parliamentary boundaries. If, for instance in Perth, that power were to be extended, it would lead to great inconvenience. If taxes were to be imposed to the extent of these boundaries, the Town Councils in return should convey water, and confer other advantages, which would be productive of great expense.
 General Sharpe  supported the view which the hon. Member for Kirkcudbright took of the operation of the 5th Clause.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that he had not seen the correspondence alluded to by the hon. Member, but would make inquiry into the subject, and give an answer at a future day.
 Lord John Russell  put to the House whether this debate ought to be allowed to proceed any further. The hon. Member for Pontefract, and the hon. and learned Member for Bradford, had both made those statements which they deemed necessary to the vindication of their characters. It was not necessary, in his opinion, for the House to come to any decision upon their conflicting statements. The hon. and learned Member for Bradford had said, that he was quite ready to meet any accusation that might be brought against him, but the question for the House to consider was, whether it would enter, further into the consideration of the matter, with which it bad no immediate concern. He hoped that the House would not.
 Lord William Bentinck  said, he believed that there would be no difficulty in the system of certificates of origin.
 Mr. Hawes  thought that it was a great hardship that Members did not know whether they should be allowed to proceed with their Bills or not on Wednesday. He had now for two years endeavoured to proceed with a measure of great public importance which he had introduced, and he could not help complaining of the treatment he had experienced. If the
 723
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was glad to hear the first part of his hon. Friend the Member for Lancaster's speech, because it was couched in the spirit consonant with his general kindly feeling. As his opinions on the subject were well known, hon. Gentlemen must be aware how deeply anxious he had been for a long time to effect the removal of the differences in question. But at the same time he had always considered that there had been much exaggeration upon both sides. He believed that the alarm of the West Indians was entirely groundless with regard to the possession which they might have of any monopoly in this country; and also that the expectations entertained on behalf of the East-Indians had been greatly exaggerated. The change of system introduced into that country, which would enable British capital to be employed, and British industry, energy, and intelligence to be exerted, and from which they might confidently anticipate that great advantage would result, was but of late origin. His hon. Friend, the Member for Lancaster, had completely understood his right hon. Friend in supposing that, with regard to all sugars, the produce of the East Indies, now in this country, the alteration would not apply; certificates of origin would be required, and no sugars now on their way from the East Indies could be admitted at the reduced duty—nor indeed any which might be on their way for a considerable time, that is to say, till the provisions of the Act should be known in that country. He was surprised at the extreme length to which his hon. Friend went upon this subject; he seemed to adopt what he had not always been ready to adopt—the principles of free trade, and to carry them to rather a wild extent. When his hon. Friend said, "because you are prepared to equalise the duties on West and East India sugars, therefore, you are to sweep away all remnants of the old colonial sys tem," he certainly did seem to have very wonderfully changed for a very small cause. Did his hon. Friend think, that because they were effecting an equalization of the duties, they were doing away with all pro-
 742 l. s. I. s. 743 744
 Mr. P. Thomson  explained, that he had merely observed that the right hon. Gentleman had not detailed the reasons of his objection.
 Mr. Maclean  had seen in the daily journals a correspondence that had taken place between a clergyman of the Church of Eng land and the Commissioners of the Poor laws, respecting the allowing the inmates of workhouses to attend divine worship on Sundays in the parish church or elsewhere. In answer to the letter written by the clergy man in question, the Commissioners stated that these unfortunate persons were not to be allowed to attend such places of worship; but instead of this it appeared that they were to be confined within the walls of the workhouse, but that a chaplain was to attend to their spiritual wants. He wished to know from the noble Lord, whether the Poor-law Commissioners had the power to prevent the unfortunate inmates of workhouses from attending divine worship, either in the parish church or any other place that was more congenial to their feelings.
 Mr. Cayley  thought it was most objectionable to bring on public business on Wednesdays, which was the only day on which private Members had an opportunity of bringing forward Bills.
 Mr. Francis French  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given notice last year that he intended to intro duce a Bill for the encouragement of public works in Ireland, but there appeared to be no probability of such a measure being introduced at present; he therefore wished to learn from the right hon. Gentleman what were his intentions on the subject.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that so long as any question involving the personal character of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Hardy), or that of the hon. Members opposite, was before the House, there might have been some ground for departing from the usual practice, in order to afford hon. Gentlemen an opportunity of setting themselves right with the House; but he would ask what object could be gained by having this letter printed? The only appearance or ground of charge against the hon. and learned Member was, that he had paid head-money. He should be very sorry to justify anything like bribery in any hon. Member; if, however, the hon. Member for Bradford had discouraged bribery in the borough of Pontefract, but had fell, on finding that some of his friends and partisans had made engagements in his name, that he could not conscientiously decline to fulfil them, and he had afterwards, in consequence, paid money though that might in the literal sense of the word be called bribery, yet he thought it could not  in foro conscientiœ
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, he would not have risen but for the observation of the hon. Member for Lancashire. He had been surprised to hear him refer to the present measure as a relaxation and breaking up of the colonial system, and call on the Government, in consistency, to sweep away the navigation laws and all the other arrangements for colonial protection, and by which, in fact, the West-India Islands were at present held. When that question was brought more regularly before them at a future period, he would be pre pared to show that the protection which those ancient laws extended to the navigation and the colonies of the British empire was but a fair equivalent for many restrictions imposed on those interests, for the general benefit of the State, and that the whole system had been arranged with regard to the reciprocal rights and interests of various parties. The subject would be very imperfectly discussed unless a general vote were taken on the merits of the whole system of our commercial relations.
 Mr. Aglionby  had a Bill which by the proposed arrangement he should be pre vented bringing forward till such a late hour of the evening that the House would not listen to it. He had been disappointed in a similar manner on former occasions.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  would have no objection that the suggestion should be adopted, if it would forward the object proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex, of preventing any money from being given in any shape as a bribe. He (Mr. Grattan) had heard a doctrine that night which, if professed by the majority of English Members, would make him very anxious to leave that House altogether. It had been said that if A gave 10 1. 1.
 The Speaker  asked the hon. Member what was the point he wished to arrive at —what was the motion he intended to make?
 The Speaker  interposed, and stated, that all such references were irregular, and a breach of the privileges of the House.
 The Speaker  inquired whether the hon. Member intended to conclude with any motion? At present he was only referring to a former debate. Did he mean to make any complaint?
 The Speaker  reminded the hon. Member for Pontefract, that unless he had some specific allegation to make, he was now going into matter quite irrelevant to any matter before the House.
 The Speaker : This involves a question, which relates to the order of proceedings in this House. Here is a resolution brought up from a Committee, in terms which distinctly go to establish the principle, that only a portion of that Committee are to decide upon a point at issue. Such being the case, the Committee were directed by the House to re-assemble, (the attention of the House having been drawn to the circumstance,) in order that, when, they should re assemble, they might rescind a proceeding for which, as the hon. Gentleman has stated, there is no precedent whatever, because the Committee took upon itself to do that which it had no power to do. Such, I am sure, will be the opinion of the House. I merely wish to say, that what the House clearly has to do is, to take care that the Committee do re-assemble, in order that they may strictly adhere to the rules and regulations of the House, they being under the direction of the House. If the Committees of this House had the power to limit their own powers, which they have not, the case would stand in a different light. This right not being vested in them, on what ground can a portion of a Committee act independently of the other, so far as to exclude the other portion? Here is a list fixed by the House, to whom this Bill is referred, and I am confident this House will never sanction any such proceeding as that of a Committee coming to a resolution that a portion only of that Committee shall vote upon a question which has been referred back to them. Upon the face of the Report last made, there is an evident irregularity. If any regulations are to be imposed upon a Committee, other than those already established by the House, it can only be done by the House itself, not by any portion or division of the House.
 Mr. Praed  observed that "head-money" had been considered by the Judges to be exempt from the operation of the Bribery Act, upon the principle that it was not given to corrupt the voters. There was, however, an old law maxim which said,  Expressio minus exclusio ulterius;
 Mr. Praed  then said, that he was not intimately acquainted with the subject; not having had occasion to make researches for his own defence, or in the crimination of others. He trusted, however, that the Committee would allow him to say a few words with reference to a matter which was personal to himself. A petition, it might be remembered by most hon. Members, had been presented last Session, not against him, but making statements with respect to the borough of Yarmouth, and praying for the vote by ballot. Though he knew those statements to be wrong at the time, he refiained from contradicting them as legal proceedings were in progress then on the subject. In the evidence, however, that had been elicited there was no ground for any charge against him that did not equally criminate the Whig and Radical Members for the same borough for the last seventeen years. On a motion of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock for the payment of the expenses of witnesses, he had hoped that he should have had the opportunity of making his statement; but unfortunately for him, that notice was withdrawn. The hon. Member for Hastings had also given notice of a motion for the disfranchisement of the burgesses of the borough of Yarmouth, which was also withdrawn, so that again he lost the opportunity of making his statement. The House had ordered a prosecution and at the expense of the public, before it had heard evidence, and the parties had been put to an onerous and grievous expense; the witnesses in the meanwhile had been kept in the pay and employment of the Whig and Radical interest, who had caused the proceeding. Now, with all their disadvantages, and the case con ducted by his Majesty's Attorney-General, it was blown out of Court amid the execrations of the jury, the execrations of the audience, and the condemnation of the judge. He would not, therefore, call God
 760
 Dr. Bowring  hailed the proposition with great satisfaction, as evincing a regard for the interests of the community.
 Dr. Bowring  hoped, that time would be given to enable the people of Scotland to consider the provisions proposed in the Bill. He was in favour of the 5 l.
 Mr. Gully : This letter is a letter written by the hon. Member for Bradford to a gentleman who seconded him at his election at Pontefract. The letter was dated the 5th of March, 1834, and was as follows:—
 "Dear Sir,—I left to Mr. Mitton the liquidation of such accounts as he thought proper, and by his decision, which I don't disapprove of, I have abided. I am surprised that any of the respectable inhabitants of Pontefract should have countenanced that to which I was subjected, knowing, as they must have done, that it was against my express desire and directions. I so wrote to Mr. Mitton more than once, and understood that my letter was communicated to my friends. I always felt bound in honour, though much against my conscience, to pay the head-money to those who voted for me, and which was in many instances taken by those who ought to have been ashamed of such a thing. One way and another I paid more than 5,000 l. l. 710 "With best wishes, yours truly, "JOHN HARDY." l. " Hear" " Order," 
 Mr. Gully  said, that he meant to make a complaint of a breach of privilege. The hon. and learned Member for Bradford proceeded, on the 17th May, to assert that "the charge against him of having been guilty of bribery was most calumnious and unfounded;" and on a subsequent day he took the opportunity of stating that he had been charged with bribery, but that it was false and unfounded. On other times on the same evening, he (Mr. Gully) had heard the hon. and learned Member repeat that the accusation was false and unfounded. He (Mr. Gully) had been much surprised to hear such a declaration, and he had risen from his seat to say, that if the hon. and learned Member had been calumniated, he considered himself one of the calumniators, because at a public meeting at Hull, he had said that he had a strong antagonist to contend with at the late election for Pontefract; that he knew that a great deal of money had been spent by that party for immoral purposes —indeed, that more money had been spent at the last election than had ever been spent at Pontefract since Mr. Hardy's election. He (Mr. Gully) had also informed the House upon that occasion that within a few days he had himself received a letter from one of his constituents, stating that he felt himself so much disgusted with the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Bradford—[ Order 709
 Mr. Gully  would say, then, that he heard the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny charge the hon. and learned Member for Bradford, with having paid from 3 1. 1. 708
 Mr. Gully  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a circumstance which occurred in a previous debate, and said, that although an apology might be due to the House, he had none to make to the hon. and learned Member for Bradford. He hoped to be indulged for a few minutes while he adverted to a charge thrown out by the hon. and learned Member, then for Dublin, now for Kilkenny, against the hon. Member for Brad ford, on the 16th February last. He begged to read the terms of the charge as he found them in the  Mirror of Parliament [Order].
 Mr. Gully  would move, that the House do now take this letter into consideration. Well, he would move that the letter be laid upon the table, and that a Select Committee be appointed to take it into consideration.
 Mr. Gully  observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had asked him whether or not he had paid any head-money. He would answer the hon. and learned Gentle man, that if he had paid head-money, and had afterwards declared that he never had been guilty of bribery in any shape whatsoever, he should consider him self unworthy of a seat in that House.
 Mr. Hardy  was glad to have an opportunity of entering into an explanation and refutation of the charges which had been so unfoundedly and yet so unblushingly brought against him. What the money which he had spent in carrying an election, at Pontefract had to do with the charges which a sense of public duty had compelled him to bring against Mr. O'Connell, he could not for the life of him understand. Even if he had been convicted of bribery, it could have had no effect either in diminishing or increasing the weight of evidence, against that hon. and learned personage The hon. Member for Ponte-
 711 l. 1. 1. 712 713 l. l. "I have no objection whatever to your sending Mr. Gully any letter of mine to you, conscious as I am that it will contain no confirmation of the charge of bribery on the occasion of my being a candidate for Pontefract. You, at that time, as my friend and supporter, generally accompanied me in my canvass. No one is better able to speak to my conduct in the course of it, &c. I call upon you, as an act of justice to me, to state whether, upon any occasion, you witnessed an attempt or wish on my part to hold out corrupt inducements of any kind to those whose votes I solicited.—I remain,  &c. "May 30. "JOHN HARDY." "Dear Sir,—In reply to your letter I should not do justice to my own feelings, or your conduct during the canvass, if I did not declare, in the most decided terms, that I never witnessed a wish or an attempt on your part to hold out corrupt inducements of any kind to those whose votes you solicited. Our town was ridden roughshod by a system which, I must say, you disdained to follow; for rather than have recourse to it on the day of polling, you declared to me on the hustings, that you would abandon your election at a period when all seemed favourable, and the sudden reverse would only be satisfactorily accounted for from the reason I have assigned." 714 l. l. l. l. 715 l. l, l, l.
 Mr. Hardy : The House will do me a great favour if it will listen to the hon. Member.
 Mr. Hardy  thought it was unnecessary
 758
 Mr. Hardy  was replying to this remark, when the Attorney-General suddenly walk ed up the floor from the Court of Common Pleas, where the verdict had just been de delivered in the action brought by Mr. Norton against Lord Melbourne. The hon. Member's observations were completely drowned in the loud and continued cheers which greeted the hon. and learned Member's appearance.
 Mr. Hume  had not so much experience in matters of the kind as the hon. Member for Bradford; but if he could feel assured that all species of bribery would be included in the words "any money," he should not press the amendment.
 Mr. Hume  proposed to introduce, after the words "any money," the words "or head-money." His object was merely to prevent any money being given as a bribe, and that object he thought would be effected by the introduction of the word "head-money."
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to avail himself of the first moment to thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the proposition which he had brought forward. He had a few nights since presented a petition, which was agreed to at one of the largest public meetings ever held in Calcutta, and one of the prayers contained in that petition was, that sugars, the produce of India, should be introduced on the same footing as those the produce of the West Indies. He considered that this was an act of justice which had been too long delayed; but he received the intimation of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with pleasure, and as a pledge of the policy which his Majesty's Government intended to pursue. He accepted this measure, as an act of justice to India, and he hailed it as the commencement of other equalizations of duties, as suggested in the petition to which he had referred; and which further equalizations he should on the 29th bring under the notice of the House. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in speaking of India, and of allowing her produce to be admitted into this country, no doubt, was anxious to do justice to the inhabitants of Hindostan; but he (Mr. Hume) looked also to the advantages which would accrue to the consumer; but he did not think, that the very stringent regulations which had been proposed were called for. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Goulburn), had expressed his regret that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought forward this motion at so late a period; but he (Mr. Hume) thought that the Government had acted wisely in not giving an earlier intimation of what their intentions were. There was one point, however, to which he considered it only fair he should allude. Now, while there existed ample grounds of complaint in the East Indies, still, there the people were allowed to receive food from every part of the world; whereas, in the West Indies, they were shackled by
 737
 Mr. Hume  did give notice, but the motion was omitted for one day to be put on the orders. However, as his hon. Friend had complained of not being sufficiently informed of his (Mr. Hume's) intention to move for the re-assembling of the Committee, he should not persevere in insisting on the motion, but would consent that it be postponed until to-morrow, if his hon. Friend thought he would gain anything by occupying the time of the House further with it.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the question could not be so easily got rid of as the noble Lord supposed, for a motion had been re-
 716 1. 1. 717
 Mr. Hume  moved, that it be printed.
 Mr. Hume  begged the attention of the House while he read the order, from which would be seen the force of the judicious observations which had fallen from the Chair. The hon. Member stated the proceedings in the Committee, and argued from them that the motion which he had made was the most proper course to pursue, as it afforded the Committee an opportunity for giving the reasons which induced them to adopt the resolution in the form in which it was submitted to the House.
 Mr. Pease  avowed that he took a considerable interest in the welfare of 100,000,000 of his fellow subjects, and could not help feeling that a difference of twenty per cent, on prime articles of their produce was too serious to be overlooked. His hope was, that the legislature of this country would give all its colonies fair play. He believed that they would best consult those distant interests, under all the circumstances in which they were placed, by giving them every fair chance of competition. He thought that the Government could not have offered the commercial interests of this country a more advantageous been than the present liberal and equitable measure promised.
 Mr. Patrick Maxwell Stewart  did not rise to complain of the proposition of his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, especially as he understood that the important details would be discussed on a future occasion; but he did complain of the manner and tone in which it had been introduced, because it came with a startling effect on not only the West-India, but also the East-India interests, who certainly did not expect it would be brought forward in so sweeping a manner as was proposed. The right hon. Gentleman had noticed the warnings which had been given by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and he admitted, that they had been received as warnings that these alterations would be made; but there were particular circumstances which were specially to be
 739 bonus 740 741
 Mr. Phillip Howard  must thank the
 746
 Mr. Bernal : The hon. Member for Yarmouth could not surely mean by what he had just said, to assert that the payment of head-money had been held exempt by Jaw from the imputation of corruption. There certainly were some old decisions seeming to favour that view of the case, but they were founded upon the plea that such monies had been paid to compensate voters for loss of time. No such excuse could be held out now, for the Reform Bill had shut out all possibility of having out lying voters. In his opinion the word "head" was unnecessary, for he thought it certain that if any Committee of that House, sitting on an election petition, were convinced that a sum of 2 1. l.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the facts of this case depended entirely upon documentary evidence. The hon. and learned Member for Bradford had read a letter which he had written to a gentleman, a friend of his own, in which he had distinctly stated, that it was with extreme repugnance he had recourse to means therein adverted to. Now, the hon. and learned Gentleman, after having read his own letter, had not read the reply to it. Supposing he had read that answer—he, (Mr. Sheil) however, did not want to press that letter.
 718 l. l. l.
 Mr. Wason  said, that the resolution did not bear out the construction put upon it by the House. The inferences drawn were not quite correct.
 Mr. Wason  was desirous of drawing the attention of the House to a resolution which had been agreed to last night on the motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex, to this effect:—That the Committee on the Bill do again re-assemble, for the purpose of reporting to the House specially the preamble of the Bill, and the evidence and reasons in detail on which the resolution, "that the preamble had not been proved," was adopted, the House considering as contrary to the practice of Parliament, the resolutions of the Committee last reported," that the reasons upon which the Committee came to the resolution that the preamble had not been proved," can only apply to those Members who voted on that proposition. He thought that the Committee had great reason to complain that such a resolution should have passed the House, without proper notice having been given, which would have enabled the Committee to ex plain some circumstances which, left unexplained had a direct tendency to imply censure on them. He said the proceeding adopted towards this Committee was unprecedented. The only case at all bearing on it, for he had examined for precedents, was in the 66th volume of the Journals, in which notice was taken of the irregu-
 706
 Mr. Wason : If the hon. Member for Bradford meant to say that the payment of 5 1. 759
 Mr. Wason  stated, that every member of the Yarmouth Committee was of opinion that every allegation of the petition was proved. The chief allegation was bribery, and that was completely proved.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  objected to the operation of the 5th Clause in certain cases —among others that of Dumfries and an adjoining suburb, which, being united by the Bill to Dumfries, was subjected to the heavy taxation consequent on the improvements the inhabitants of Dumfries were anxious to promote in their town.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  re plied, and stated that his intention in bringing forward the present measure was simply to place the produce of the West Indies on an equality with the East. He had studiously taken care to protect the West-Indian planter, and while doing justice to the East Indian to avoid doing injustice to the West. The suggestion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton went to the increase of the supply of sugar in the home market, and would certainly benefit the consumer, but he thought it would be unjust to the West Indians to throw all the sugar in bond into competition with theirs on such unequal terms. The hon. Member should recollect that the article he wished to throw into the market was foreign sugar—slave sugar. The hon. Member for North Lancashire, who had heretofore taken a considerable interest in the affairs of the West Indies, had evinced great liberality in his views for the advancement of those colonies, and he hoped that the present measure was framed in a spirit that would merit his approval and support.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was aware that it was not usual to bring on Government business on a Wednesday, but on that day to allow Members to proceed
 721
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  answered, that with respect to the Public Works Bill, it was his intention to intro duce that measure, and to endeavour to carry it during the present Session. His hon. Friend must be aware that he had no opportunity of bringing forward the mea sure at an earlier period of the Session, with a chance of carrying it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed
 722
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had not explained the nature of the urgent necessity that prevailed with respect to voting the sugar duties. The annual sugar duties would expire on the 5th of July, and it would be a great public inconvenience if they were not at once agreed to.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not altogether agree to the arrangement proposed by the right hon. Baronet. He thought that it would be very unfair, and would be attended with great inconvenience after the notice he had given, if he did not explain his views and intentions on the subject. If after his explanation, hon. Gentlemen would allow the discussion to take place on the second reading, he would take care to fix on a day when they should have ample opportunity of debating it. With respect to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, he would only observe, that if the resolutions were proposed in Committee to-day, the next step would be to report them to-morrow, when he would not have an opportunity of entering into an explanation, as it was a notice day, nor could a discussion take place on them. The nearest day, then, for a discussion would be on the motion for the second reading of the Bill founded on them. All that he required was, to explain shortly the object he had in view. This could not be done if he merely proposed the resolutions without explanation; and if he abstained from doing so, he should expose his measure to misconception, and he might put parties who were interested to great inconvenience. The hon. Member for Finsbury stood in a peculiarly favourable situation as regarded
 724
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was his intention, in as few words as possible, to state to the Committee the circumstances attendant upon the very import ant question which it was his duty to submit to the House. In approaching this subject, in preference to the other orders on the paper, it was not from any want of feeling with regard to the great importance of the subjects to which they refer; but considering the nature of the question which he had to introduce, he was bound to say that he felt the highest sense of gratification at its having fallen to his lot to offer the present explanation. When he considered the great number of years that had elapsed during which the equalization of the sugar duties had been earnestly sought for, and urged upon the Legislature —when he considered the number of petitions which had been presented on the subject—when he considered the great interests involved in the discussion—he thought if hon. Gentlemen had adverted somewhat more carefully to the magnitude of the question, they would not for a single moment have interposed, but would have given their preference to this matter above all other Bills before the House. This important subject had not only occupied the attention of the House on many previous occasions, but there was scarcely a great mercantile community within the realm that had not made an appeal to Parliament in reference to it. There was not a single individual in the House, who had not recorded, by his speeches or by his vote, his assent to the principle of equalization; but still, from year to year, and on grounds which he was the last person to question, but which, on the contrary, he admitted to have been just, the consideration of the question with a view to bringing it to an effectual and final issue, had been postponed. Under these circumstances he did not feel himself called upon to argue at any very great length in favour of the general principle involved in the proposition which he was about to submit. He was rather called upon to show—what the circumstances were which had heretofore pre vented the adoption of the motion which he apprehended would now be no longer
 725 "He was well aware of what was due to the West Indians, and was inclined to give them that due, and all that they required was time to see the working of the Act passed last Session with reference to the West-India colonists. He thought it would not be advisable to increase the pressure on the latter Colonies until the effects of that measure were seen. He repeated that the present proposition was merely for a temporary purpose, and he hoped the House would agree to it." ✶ "He hoped that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ewart) would persevere in his intention of submitting the present highly important subject to the grave consideration of the House, in order that they might clearly understand the situation of the parties interested in its adjustment. As far as he could comprehend its bearings, an ✶ 726 act of greater injustice towards the natives of India could not be done, than to continue upon their produce the unequal rate of duty at pre sent levied. Although an attempt to establish discriminating duties between two countries might not by the one aggrieved be considered as an open declaration of war, yet it would not fail to make that country regard the attempt as a marked indication of hostility. The house might, at all events, depend upon it, there was a growing intelligence in the natives of India, that could not fail to make them feel most keenly the degree of favour shown to the West India colonists in comparison with that ex tended to them." ✶ "He was disposed to agree with the noble Lord in thinking it might be inexpedient at the present moment, to add to the difficulties of the West-India 'planter, by proposing any change; but he at the same time thought, that those whose capital was invested in East-India securities, had a right to know whether the present unequal rate of duty on the produce of that country was to be kept up."† ✶ †Ibid. (Third Series) vol. xxi. p. 951. 727 "The feeling which every Gentleman had expressed upon the subject of freedom of trade, and more significant than all; the strong hint conveyed by the decided opinion expressed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth against any protection being afforded— would give sufficient notice to those parties in the West Indies, that they must not expect a continuance of those duties in their favour."  ✶ ✶ 728 729 730 731 732 Member: 733 
 
 Sugar, viz.— £ s. d. 
 Brown, or Muscavado or clayed sugar, not being refined, the cwt. 3 3 0 
 —, the growth of any British possession in America, and imported from thence, the cwt. 1 4 0 
 —, the growth of any British possession within the limits of the East-India Company's Charter, into which the importation of foreign sugar may be prohibited by law, and imported from thence, the cwt. 1 4 0 
 —, the growth of any other British possession within those limits, and imported from thence, the cwt. 1 12 0 734 
 Molasses, the cwt. 1 3 9 
 — the produce of and imported from any British possession, the cwt. 0 9 0 
 Refined, the cwt. 8 8 0 
 Candy, Brown, the cwt. 5 12 0 
 —, White, the cwt. 8 8 0
 Mr. Wakley  said, that he could not consent to postpone the discussion on the Parish Vestries Bill.
 Mr. Wakley  also protested against thus dealing with the Bills introduced by Members not connected with the Government. The first order of the day was for the second reading of the Parish Vestries Bill—a measure which he had introduced, and which it was of importance should be carried without delay. He did not feel himself justified in assenting to the request of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that it had been said that it was not bribery if there was no promise or expectancy held out. Now it was hardly possible to prove expectancy in many cases. He thought it sufficient to establish the fact, and infer the corruption from the fact.
 Mr. Ewart  joined his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, in thanking the Chancellor of the Exchequer for this wise and just measure. He thought the West India interest had no right to complain, for the protection given to them by the Bill was, in his opinion, sufficiently strong1. That protection was threefold:—First, the right hon. Gentleman would not allow foreign sugars to be imported into those portions of India from which Indian sugar was exported — a strong measure certainly, somewhat uncommercial in its character, and one which nothing but the necessity of the case could justify; secondly, by requiring a certificate of origin; and lastly, that the sugar now here should not come under the new regulations as to duty, because it was purchased under the expectation that it would have to pay the regular duty. With these three restrictions he thought the West-Indian interest might well be content. He hailed the general measure as one of justice and wisdom, and promoting an enlightened spirit of free commerce. By promoting the cultivation of sugar in the East, and by inducing capitalists to invest their capital in such an undertaking, they would also be the means of promoting the cultivation of the important articles of cotton and tobacco, for which the adjacent soils to that in which the sugar cane was grown were exceedingly favourable; and thus, as had already happened with respect to indigo they would give another great impulse to the prosperity and welfare of the British empire in the East. He hoped that Government would also take off the duty on pepper, and place rum made in the East Indies on the same footing as that made in the West. Indeed this seemed as a natural corollary of reducing the duty on sugar and encouraging the cultivation of the sugar cane. The
 738
 Mr. Gillon  said, that any one who was acquainted with the condition of Scotland would readily acknowledge the great benefits which that country had received from the passing of the Burgh Reform Act, in 1833, and that country owed a deep debt of gratitude to the Ministers, by whom it had been carried through. The advantages from that measure were scarcely inferior to those arising from the Reform Bill itself, and it had been, besides, the precedent for extending similar measures to England and Ireland, of which the one country had already reaped the benefits, and he was convinced they could not be long withheld from the other. That measure, excellent as it was in principle, had been passed without a minute knowledge of various details connected with the burghs of Scot land in order to put an end at once to the vicious system of self-election which there
 756 l.
 Mr. Gillon  presented petitions from the inhabitants of Calton, Glasgow, with 4,000 signatures, praying the franchise might be extended to rate-payers; from the working classes of Leith to the same effect; from the inhabitants of Inverary, praying for household suffrage, and that the votes might be taken by ballot, also that they might be removed to schedule A,  &c.;
 Sir James Graham  thought that what had been complained of most was, that a resolution should have passed that House which hon. Members conceived implied censure on them, without sufficient notice having been given to those more immediately interested.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought that it would be much better to strike off all those Bills from the order book which were not likely to be got through during the pre sent Session. If the noble Lord would mention those Bills which he intended to pass during the present Session, and let the others stand over, it would add materially to the convenience of hon. Gentlemen. At present hon. Members were brought down to the House not knowing what measures were to be discussed, to the hindrance of public business, and to the great inconvenience of Members. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question respecting the new Stamp Bill. The right hon. Gentleman would probably press for so much of the measure as related to the alteration of the stamp duties on news papers, but did he expect that he should be able to pass during the present Session all the clauses of that extensive measure?
 Sir Robert Peel  suggested to the Chancellor of the Exchequer the propriety of merely moving his resolutions and taking the discussion on another day. He could hardly expect to get through the discussion in a short time, and a partial discussion on a question of this nature would not be satisfactory. If, therefore, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was allow ed to introduce his propositions, the debate on them could be taken on another day.
 Sir William Rae  said, that this was the first time that a 5 l. l.
 Mr. Hindley  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the present Factory Act.
 Lord Ashley  should be always ready to
 840
 Mr. Wason  was understood to say, it had been agreed on all sides, that the present state of the law required alteration.
 Mr. Young  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not injure the cause he advocated by pressing the present motion.
 Sir John Hobhouse  recommended postponement till next Session.
 Mr. Hindley  contended, that the motion he had just made for leave to bring in a Bill, was perfectly consistent with what he had previously done upon this subject. He complained, that the friends of the factory children had been on several occasions charged with all the ill consequences arising from the Act; and even His Majesty's Government had not scrupled to lend themselves to the accusation, but as it was most unfounded, he hoped it would be withdrawn. If it were given up, he should have no objection to withdraw his motion. Government ought to take the responsibility of the measure upon themselves.
 Mr. Goulburn  requested the hon. Mover not to press the present proposition, for it could be brought to no successful issue in the present Session.
 Lord Francis Egerton  concurred with the last speaker, and joined with him in requesting a postponement of the motion.
 Lord John Russell  said, that His Majesty's Government were not responsible for the enactments of the Bill: it was an act of the Parliament, and Ministers were now only responsible for the manner in. which it might be carried into effect. He certainly had taken steps towards its enforcement, but he submitted, that what had occurred did by no means impose upon the Government the least obligation now to bring forward any proposition on the subject.
 Mr. Hindley  would withdraw his motion, but he should be at all times the supporter of a ten hours' Bill.
 Colonel Thompson  observed, it had been stated that voting for Members of Parliament was a public trust, and, therefore, it ought not to be exercised in secrecy; but, admitting that the elector was responsible for the way in which he exercised his right, did it follow that he would perform his duty any better for being exposed to the
 827 maximum minimum
 Sir George Clerk  contended, that the Courts of Session were sufficiently large to undertake the duty, without creating two new offices. He apprehended that the House would require more evidence than that which had been given by the Lord Advocate, before they would be persuaded to create two new offices, when it had been shown that there were ample means in the established courts of justice to effect the purposes which it was the professed object of the Bill to accomplish. With regard to the Clerks of Session, one of these four gentlemen was the professor of Scotch law in one of the universities, and was at the head of the commission appointed to inquire into the state of the law, and he had not yet heard that that gentleman did not amply perform all the duties required of him as a clerk of the Court of Session. There was another of those gentlemen who was placed at the head of another of those numerous commissions appointed by the present Government, and another who was deputy registrar, and had the charge of all the public records, and yet he never heard that the performance of this duty interfered with his duties as a Clerk of the Session. Now, it was quite clear from the easy nature of their duties, that the Clerks of the Session might very well undertake the auditing of the accounts of the factors, of minors and insane persons' estates, and they would have plenty of time; for, in addition to the time the Court was sitting, they would have the whole vacation, which was six months. The Lord Advocate had stated that the salaries of these new officers were to be raised out of fees paid by litigants; but why saddle them with this expense, when the Clerks of Session had a salary sufficiently large for the duties they would have to discharge? Under these circumstances he should give his most cordial support to his right hon. Friend in his opposition to this Bill.
 Mr. Wallace  thought it was a pity that hon. Gentlemen opposite, who now appeared so anxious for reform, had not done something to prove their sincerity when
 844
 Mr. Goulburn  did not think that be should have been induced to rise upon this subject, but after the statement made by the hon. Member who had just sat down, that his right hon. Friend near him had not, during his tenure of office, introduced any reforms in the Scottish courts, or made any reductions in those offices, which ought to have been abolished, he felt himself called on to rise. He believed that the hon. Gentleman was not in Parliament at the time he now referred to; but if he inquired of many hon. Gentlemen upon his side of the House, he would find that they all concurred in the expressions of approbation and praise which were profusely uttered when his right hon. Friend filled the office of Lord Advocate. His right hon. Friend had done more to reduce the judicial establishment of the Scotch Courts than any man who preceded him in that office had done, or any who followed him could hope to do; and at one blow he did away with judicial offices to the amount of 36.000 l. 845 1.
 Lord Dalmeny  in rising to make a few remarks, begged leave to say, that if any speech could induce him to become an advocate for the ballot and the principle of secret voting, it would be the speech of the hon. Member for London. For three successive years that hon. Member had brought forward this motion in a very entertaining and able manner, but as each successive year had only furnished him with additional reasons for believing that the measure was not only one of an impolitic, but of a pernicious nature, the hon. Member must rather attribute his opposition to the nature of the measure itself, than to any want of talent on the part of those who had urged it on their attention. He was not, at the same time, blind to the evils and mischiefs that arose out of the present system. There was no doubt whatever about the disease; the question, therefore, merely regarded the remedy to be applied, and he candidly confessed that he could discover no such remedy in the nostrum of the hon. Member for London; on the contrary, he thought it would lead to those very evils which it affected to cure. Supposing, as the hon. Member anticipated, that the ballot would have the effect of securing the utmost secrecy, of inducing the voter to observe a silence that no power could break, and that even in the expansion of his heart during convivial moments he could not be influenced to disclose his vote—supposing all these improbabilities to be realised, let it be recollected that the principle the hon. Member advocated would strike at once at the root of all responsibility. The very Gentlemen who had been always shouting and agitating for publicity, who preferred that the Exchequer should be impaired rather than that means should not be given to inform the ignorant of everything that
 822 espionnage, 823
 Mr. Villiers : It is sometimes, Sir, difficult to explain the reasons upon which a vote is founded. The hon. Member who has just sat down seems to be conversant with all the evils for which the ballot is proposed as a remedy: he speaks of them from experience and from observation. But he brings down to this House a letter, containing what he calls such eloquent and powerful arguments against the ballot, that he is determined to vote in opposition to his own experience—in opposition to that which he himself admits must ultimately be the remedy of those evils which he has stated at present exist. The only argument contained in that letter is, that it might be possible if the ballot were granted for a man to promise his vote to a certain party, and afterwards he induced to break his promise and vote another way, a proceeding which he calls disgraceful to a free-born Englishman. And he followed that up by telling us, that he has seen oppression and tyranny exercised against the voters—he has seen them dragged up to vote against their conscientious convictions; and yet he tells us, that lest a man should promise his vote to one party and give it to another, he will vote against the ballot. I tell him, that I believe one of the first and most important advantages of the ballot will be, that it will put an end to all canvassing for votes, because every man will feel it useless to canvass; and therefore that most shocking event, of a man's promising his vote one way and giving it another, will never occur. Considering the great importance of this question, I own I am astonished that Gentlemen opposite, who are about to record their votes against this measure, do not think fit to give us any arguments against it. I am inclined to think, however, that they are wise in not doing so; for of all questions which can be discussed this is the least exposed to objections of any I know. The noble Lord, however, who spoke early in this debate, has not followed this wise example; and, so far from having any thing to advance against the ballot, he seemed rather to confirm all its friends in its favour. I own, that after the high and just eulogium which he passed on the speech of my hon. Friend, the Member for London, I was prepared to hear an answer to that speech. But I was surprised to find that he admitted all the evils which the hon. Member urged against the present system, and only contended that the remedy he proposed was not the one which
 831 832 833 834
 Mr. Harvey  presented a Petition to the same effect, but the name of the place from whence it came was inaudible in the Gallery.
 Mr. Grote  spoke as follows:—I am about to propose to you, Sir, the motion, notice of which stands on your paper, respecting the mode of taking votes at elections for Members of Parliament. I mean to ask for leave to bring in a Bill, providing, that votes shall be henceforward taken in secret, by way of ballot. Sir, on the previous occasion, when I introduced this subject to your notice, I did so by moving a simple resolution of the House, to the effect that secret voting at elections for Members of Parliament was expedient and preferable. On the present occasion I shall move for leave to bring in a Bill to accomplish this object; and I make this slight change in my mode of proceeding, because I imagine that there may be some Gentlemen who, though not un favourable to the system of secret voting, are yet mistrustful as to the possibility of carrying out the principle into detail conveniently and effectually; and, therefore, hesitate to affirm the abstract resolution when simply and nakedly proposed to them. If I am allowed to bring in my Bill I shall show the House that the regulations essential to a system of secret voting may easily be framed with perfect convenience to the voter and entire certainty to the main object; and I may safely promise Gentlemen, that if they are not at variance with me on the ground of principle, they shall have very little reason to complain on the score of deficiency in the details. By assenting to my present motion they will not be called upon to pronounce an irrevocable determination in favour of secret voting until they see the details through which it is to be brought into operation. Sir, it is not my intention to trouble you with any long preface or introduction before I proceed to state the grounds on which I presume to claim your favourable hearing. Gentlemen will not need to be reminded that we sit here as the representatives of the people—chosen by them, and for their benefit—chosen by them generally as the guardians of their persons and
 782 783 784 785 786 787 788 789 790 791 792 Tabella, vindex tacit æ libertatis—the upholder of silent liberty, 793 794 795 796 integro et libero animo. 797 798 799 800 801 802 803 "Ease will recant Vows made in pain as violent and void." 804 805 806 807 " Nam veræ voces turn demum pectore ab imo Ejiciuntur; et eripitur persona, manet res."
 Mr. Robinson  did not agree with the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, that the ballot would be any improvement of the elective franchise, and, therefore, he should oppose it now, as he always had done before. He wished to ask what evidence there was of a desire on the part of the people for vote by ballot? Did it appear in the number of their petit-ions for it? No. And there was another indication of the apathy which prevailed upon this question, in the fact, that on the very first night the hon. Member for the City of London was to have brought forward his motion, there were no hon. Members in the House to support him, nor, indeed, he believed, was the hon. Member present himself. He represented a very large constituency, and although he was free to admit, that among them there were some persons in favour of the ballot, and that they had solicited him to vote for it, he could not possibly avoid stating that an immense majority, including the humbler classes, were not in favour of it, or at least, had not expressed their anxiety about it at all. He doubted that the ballot would put an end to bribery, as the hon. Gentlemen on the opposite benches expected; there might be less temptation for persons to hold out a bribe, where there was a chance of being deceived, but as long as receivers and payers of money existed, bribery could not be entirely prevented. It would be quite as reasonable for the Members of that House to ask to vote by ballot, as it was for their constituents to require it. Was not every hon. Member placed in that situation when they were called upon to vote, either one way or the other, upon a question which made them very naturally wish they could vote by ballot? He was only stating that which could not be denied,—that hon. Members were often called upon to vote contrary to the wish of their constituents, and that they would therefore be glad to vote by ballot. He would therefore say,
 837
 Dr. Bowring  said, if the speech of the noble Lord had come from the other side of the House, it would have been more in place than it was, having been delivered on this side. All that was asked by the friends of the ballot was that the experiment should be made, and as an assurance that it would succeed they showed that in the cases in which it had been tried it had never failed. Allusion had been made to America; how had the ballot proceeded there? It was adopted in one of the American States, and found to work so well that it was extended to the others. When he visited the cantons of Switzerland he was told that the ballot had had the effect there of introducing peace into the community, and that it had done more to establish harmony and prevent corruption than any experiment that
 824 825
 Mr. Leader : Although I feel that in seconding the motion of my hon. Friend, the Member for London, I have a very difficult task to perform, yet were the task ten times more difficult I should have undertaken it with pleasure and alacrity, because I am convinced that the success of this measure would confer a more valuable and substantial benefit upon the people of this country, than any measure of reform which is at present in agitation; for without free and unbiassed voting at elections you cannot have fair and full representation; and without such representation you cannot have good government. The poor, that is, the comparatively poor and de-
 808 809 810 811 812 813 814 815 816 817 818 bona fide 819 820 821
 Mr. Leader  presented a Petition from 5,000 inhabitants of Bristol to the same effect.
 The Lord Advocate  moved for leave to bring in
 841
 The Lord Advocate  was misrepresented by the right hon. Gentleman. He said no such thing, nor anything approaching to it. What he did say was, that his right hon. Friend opposite could not name any particular individual whom he had in contemplation who would accept of the office.
 The Lord Advocate  was quite willing that as rigid an examination as could be instituted, should be directed to every measure which he proposed, but then he did say, that if he showed that the measure was consistent with public economy, and necessary for the protection of the properly of orphans and others, it ought not to be delayed, except on grounds applicable to that measure alone. With reference to what had been stated by his right hon. Friend about the creation of new offices, in which he seemed to imply, that the creation of the office was for a particular individual, he denied it, and he challenged him to name any person who had had the smallest promise from him (the Lord Advocate) with respect to that office—nay, he doubted whether any individual he had in his contemplation would accept of that office. But there was a charge made by his right hon. Friend, with regard to the conduct of the Court of Session. He said, that they were deficient in their duty, and that this deficiency had been going on for a long period. Now this was a very serious charge, that they had deserted their duty in regard to giving protection to orphans, and indeed a more serious charge could hardly be brought against a court of justice. But, in his opinion, if one officer were appointed for that express purpose, and if the proposition of his right hon. Friend were carried into effect, the same defective system of which he complained would prevail, and that was the reason why he proposed to appoint two officers. His right hon. Friend said, that those duties might be discharged by the Clerks of the Court of Session, but he apprehended they could not, because it was their duty to be in Court at the very time when those inquiries were going on. His right hon. Friend seemed also to be of opinion, that there was an unnecessary number of Clerks of Session. If he could make out a case to prove that the number was too great, then he (the Lord Advocate) would not be against a proper reduction; but the remonstrances he had received from the Court of Session were to the effect, that he cut down too much, and he was therefore placed in a very peculiar situation. There was only another question upon which he had to touch, and that was the late period of the Session at which this Bill was sought to be introduced. In reply to that, he must
 843
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the learned Lord to explain how it was that the reform which was recommended by the House two years ago, with regard to the Court of Exchequer in Scotland, had not been carried into effect. He had heard that it had not, and before new expenses were incurred, he wished to know why the charge
 842
 Mr. Hume  presented
 781
 Mr. Hume  rose to move in relation to the Committee on the South-West Durham Railway Bill, the order which was then discharged. He did so because it appeared to him that the Committee in coming to the resolution they did had deviated from the rules and instructions laid down by that House on the subject of Railway Bills. The Committee had been ordered to re-assemble for the purpose of reporting to the House the reasons on which it had come to the resolution, that the preamble to the Bill had not been proved; and when it re-assembled, it came to the following resolution:—"That the reasons upon which the Committee came to the resolution that the preamble had not been proved, could only apply to those Members who had voted on that proposition." This, he contended, was limiting the number of Members who should vote in the Committee, and he called on the Speaker to say, whether such a power resided in a Committee. He also called on the House to support his motion. This was not a question as to the merits of the Bill, but one that regarded the proper course of proceedings in Committees. The hon. Member concluded by moving, that the Committee on the South-West Durham Railway Bill do re-assemble for the purpose of reporting specially on the preamble of the Bill, on the ground that their previous resolution restricting the votes of Members of the Committee is contrary to the practice of Parliament.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  would move as an amendment the following Resolution— "That when any party has just reason to complain of the conduct of the Members of a Committee upon any Private Bill, the proper remedy, according to precedent and authority, is to appeal to the House for a Committee of Appeal." He con tended that the admission of the hon. Member, that this was not a question as to the merits of the Bill put him out of court with his present motion. His motion, under such circumstances, should have been for a Committee of Appeal. The hon. Member quoted various prece-
 780 l.
 Mr. Brodie  said it was very seldom that he troubled the House, and he hoped, therefore, he might be heard on the important question of the ballot. He had a natural aversion to secrecy of all kinds, and his aversion had not been diminished by the observations of a very sensible writer. He said—
 "Thus much we may confidently state, that the expedient in question (the ballot) has of late assumed a form, entirely new, as regards its importance. The recent conduct of certain persons has advanced it most rapidly in the good opinion of the country. Those persons alone are answerable for the space which the ballot now fills in the public eye. And if it shall be resorted to, and shall be admitted to be a bad remedy for a worse evil, we have
 828 829 " My objection to the ballot is, that secret voting gives to the electors irresponsible power. All other authorities are exercised in the light of day, and subject to public opinion. Our parliamentary discussions are open to the world—the voters alone are to exercise their power unseen and irresponsible. I am sensible (no man more so) of the progress which the question of ballot has made; nor will I deny that, as an ultimate remedy, we may be obliged to adopt it; but let us first exhaust every other. If, by the force of public opinion and public shame—if by rigid investigation and exemplary punishment,—we can find means to check intimidation and corruption, let those means be fully tried. Nay, more, let all hope of a remedy by those means be terminated, before we agree to a change, at variance with our ancient habits, inconsistent with our best institutions, and degrading to our national spirit."
 Mr. Ewart  deprecated the speech of the noble Lord, which was, in his opinion, more distinguished by eloquence of words than by force of argument. The noble Lord begged the question throughout, that fraud and falsehood must be the necessary result of the ballot, whereas its tendency was to prevent both. The noble Lord who had spoken in the course of the evening had said, "Before I consent to your measure I have a right to ask you to show me your machinery." Now, in reply to this part of the noble Lord's speech, he should say that in France the machinery for the purpose of the ballot was as ample and as perfect as possible. In America also it was found to work well, and here, in our clubs and vestries, whenever it was called into exercise it was found to work well. What occasion, then, for the noble Lord to demand an additional contrivance, when the simple machinery already in existence was found to be successful in its operations? To ask for the mechanism of the ballot before the ballot itself was granted, was only an evasion from the real state of the question. In all the cases in which the ballot had been tried, the mechanism had been sufficient to carry it into effect; we have only to sanction the principle demanded by the hon. Member for London; the machinery of the ballot was all ready for their hands, and he (Mr. Ewart) had not the slightest doubt of its success. The noble Lord had spoken much about the responsibility of the voter; but in order to be responsible he must have the means of expressing his opinions freely and without fear of consequences, which he could not do but by the ballot. The noble Lord had also spoken about the publicity of voting. But in his (Mr. Ewart's) judgment opinions, whether in religion or politics, were matters with which the state had no right to intermeddle. Now the exercise of the franchise was governed by opinion, whether true or false, and therefore the state had no right to interfere with it, nor to compel publicity, when the voter thinks he can exercise his franchise better in secret. The noble Lord had asked what security had we that the ballot would work well? To that question, the
 826
 Mr. William Roche  said, that analysed as the subject had been, both during the present and former debates, he rose but to express a few observations in support of the decidedly favourable view he entertained of the motion—that he knew not any measure, more calculated to produce unmixed good to society, or one, more
 835 836 not
 Sir J. Graham  said, that having voted for the Report agreed to by the Committee, and having also been a party to the resolution of which the hon. Member for Middlesex complained, he should, nevertheless, vote for the motion of that hon. Member on the present occasion. He was ready to agree with the hon. Member for Ipswich, that the present proceeding was a novel practice; but the whole question of railroads was a novel one, and the instructions with regard to them had been sanctioned by the House. The Resolution complained of certainly only expressed a fact, for the reference of the House could not apply to Members of the Committee who had not attended and had heard none of the evidence on the Bill, for they could give no reasons for voting that the preamble was not proved, as they did not vote on that question at all. He had been, therefore, a party to that resolution, as he thought it a less evil than adopting the absurdity he alluded to. In common, however, with the hon. Member for Middlesex, he had thought it right to apply to the highest authority in that House on the subject. The question was, whether it were competent for a Committee to pass such a resolution, and the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair had, upon two grounds, decided that such a resolution could not be sustained.
 Sir William Rae  objected to the motion, as the Bill would create two new offices, without any necessity for it. This Bill, or at least one very like it, made its appearance last Session; and it was then proposed that one office should be created of one accountant-general for Scotland; but the feeling of the country against it was so strong, that the learned Lord felt himself quite unable to proceed with the measure, without the recommendation of a Committee. A Committee was accordingly obtained; and he could not deny that the Report of that Committee was, to a certain extent, favourable to the measure now proposed by the learned Lord. The evil which wanted a remedy consisted of this —the Court of Session had the power, when it was applied to on behalf of infants and insane persons, to appoint factors or curators to take care of their estates, and the practice was, to oblige them to find security for their good behaviour in the office to which they were appointed. That was all they were bound to do; but that duty had been neglected, and the estates had, in some instances, suffered a good deal. Now, to remedy this evil, the learned Lord proposed to create two new officers. But why should not the Clerks of Session in Scotland perform the duty, receiving, as they did, a salary of 1,000 l.
 Lord Clive  wished that the clause in the Bill which exempted vessels going to Run corn, Frodsham, and other places, from paying Dock-rates to the Liverpool Dock Company, should also extend to Elsmere. To accomplish his object, he would move that the Bill be recommitted.
 Mr. Wilbraham  seconded the motion.
 Lord Clive , with the leave of the House, would withdraw his motion.
 Mr. John Stanley  said, if any party zeal were shown on the occasion, it was on the side supported by the noble Lord, who himself was no inefficient or indolent coadjutor. As to the measure before the House, in the first place the promoters of it had departed from the form in which it was originally introduced, and had remodelled it more in consonance with their own views and wishes. In the next place, he (Mr. E. J. Stanley) considered the rate-payers the most improper persons who could be concerned in the Liverpool Docks; while the town-council, on the other hand, had a permanent interest in them. The rate payers cared nothing about the establishment, and would not suffer if it fell to ruin to-morrow. The interest of the town council was identical with the interests of the whole town of Liverpool. Whoever might be in possession of the Docks, care must be taken lest, in another year, a mea sure should not be passed, compelling them to reduce the dues to the lowest possible amount; for if they did not, the whole trade of the port of Liverpool might be endangered. As a representative of Cheshire, he called upon hon. Members to unite with him in rejecting this Bill. If it were not rejected, it would be impossible hereafter to reintroduce the clause, so material to the interests of that part of the kingdom.
 Mr. William Crawford  said, he had been induced to give a great deal of attention to this subject by an accidental circumstance. He had become acquainted with the case of a rectory in Surrey, the composition for the tithes of which was very inadequate. During the last seven years, comparing it with the price of the produce, the proportion of tithe which the rector got was as forty to 100. Taking the expense of collection, and all other charges, at fourteen per cent., which he was sure would be more than sufficient, there remained 86 l l.
 Mr. Goulburn  expressed a fear that these special provisions would be productive of serious inconveniences to many clergymen. Since the House had not adopted the voluntary principle, but had decided in favour of a compulsory payment of tithes, he thought the Commissioners ought to be vested with ample discretion. He trusted also, that by whomsoever they might be appointed, they would be men of firmness, integrity, ability, and high character. The clergy were most anxious for an amicable adjustment of this question; they asked no extraordinary favour, no partiality; but, on the other hand, they were entitled to all the protection which the Government Commissioners could afford to them.
 Colonel Thompson  thought the clause, instead of involving the principle of fairness which had been attributed to it, gave two boons at once to the possessors of old hop and garden-ground, and to nobody else. It first relieved them from the continuance of the full rate in the event of their land being wrought out, and then guarded them against the competition of their neighbours who might have land, which the removal of the burthen of tithe would bring into profitable cultivation for hops and gardens. He could appeal to the other side of the House, whether in any share he had taken in the debates on the present subject, he had not shown a friendly disposition to the tithe-owners and to the church; and he therefore said with more confidence, that he did not believe the church was at the bottom of this demand for the preservation of the principle of tithe in a particular case, or would make any objections to the first part of the clause without the last. It was the owners of old hop and garden grounds  versus
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the principle of the Bill was, that the rent-charge should be estimated with reference to the value received for tithe during the last seven years. Now, it so happened, that in parishes where there was a great extent of common, a large portion of the Vicar's tithes were derived from that common. He received the tithe on the milk of the cows, and on the wool of the sheep which fed on the common. These, then, were tithes paid on cattle belonging to small cottagers. The apportionment clause directed that the total amount of the rentcharge should be apportioned among the lands of each parish. Now, he did not see how it was to be apportioned over the common land, or to whom the tithe-owner would have the right of applying for the payment of his tithe. Was the lord of the manor to be liable? If the tithes were not paid, the owner might proceed to recover them by distress, but that would be levied on the cattle on the common belonging to the cottagers, who might actually have paid their tithe. He trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor-General) would consider the point before the third reading.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought that the clause would materially affect the security of the clergyman's income, because it permitted the rent-charge, instead of being laid on, the whole of the land belonging to one estate, to be apportioned on a certain part of the land, provided the value of that part should be equal to double the value of the tithe due for the whole estate. Now, he thought that the clergyman's income would be much less secure, if it were made to proceed from only a part, and not from the whole of the land. If the value of that part of the land should fall, or if the land itself should cease to be cultivated, the incumbent might be reduced to utter destitution.
 Lord Francis Egerton  moved that the Amendment be read a second time.
 Lord Francis Egerton  moved the further consideration of the Liverpool Docks Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the wealds of Kent and Sussex were generally exempt from tithe, but there still might remain some difficulty as to coppice woods.
 Lord John Russell  consented to this proposition, and the words "coppice wood" were struck out of the clause, which was agreed to.
 Lord John Russell  was quite ready to admit that this clause was in opposition to the general principle of the Bill, but he introduced the exception because a deputation of the constituents of the hon. Member for Middlesex waited on him to represent the peculiar hardship of their case. He explained to the market gardeners the general principle of the Bill— namely, that a rent-charge was to be payable on the average of the last seven years, upon which their representation to him was, that they having expended a large capital on the improvement of their market gardens, if this principle were acted upon they would continue liable to a very heavy charge, while the owners of arable land or common land in the neighbourhood, paying a very low tithe composition, would come into competition with them, and they would be ruined. He was extremely reluctant to introduce this exception into the Bill, but when the hon. Member's constituents pressed him so strongly, he, very much against his will, gave way on this point. He had, therefore made this provision, that when land was brought into cultivation as market-garden ground, or hop-ground, it should be liable to the same payment which the same kind of land was to pay now. This was one point of view in which the question might be considered; but there was also another view of the subject. The hon. Member did not object to the first part of the clause. He said, it was quite fair that when land ceased to be cultivated as a market-garden, it should cease to pay the extraordinary rent-charge, but that, if arable land was cultivated as market-garden land, it should not pay a higher tithe than it did before—a proposition in which there was neither fairness nor justice. If the hon. Member meant to say that market-gardens should be liable for ever to the higher amount of tithe-composition, but that all persons who were not liable now should never be liable, he could understand that argument, but to make this one-sided proposition was not agreeable to common sense or common fairness.
 Lord John Russell  moved the order of the day for the further consideration of the Report on the Commutation of Tithes Bill.
 Lord John Russell  was understood to say that he had such a Bill in preparation.
 Lord John Russell  considered such an amendment altogether unnecessary, and should oppose it.
 Lord John Russell  believed the proper time for the hon. Member to move such an amendment would be on the re-commitment of the Bill. The hon. Member was quite right in his opinion respecting the consolidated fund regarding bills generally; but in this instance he (Lord John Russell) did not see how they could impose these charges upon particular individuals.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was his intention to propose that in cases where com positions, either from the length of time they had been in existence, or from other circumstances, were either too high or too low, to give the Commissioners a fuller power to deal with such as appeared to be fraudulent or collusive, according to the best of their judgment.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had no objection, if the right hon. Gentleman wished it, to make it necessary that the value of the particular portion of land on which the rent-charge might be placed should be at least three times more than the value of the tithes due for the entire estate.
 Lord John Russell  said, he would oppose the bringing up of the clauses. They did not at all refer to the Bill then before the House. They referred solely to lay impropriations, and he thought that lay impropriate tithes could not be applied to the uses of the Church. Lay impropriate tithes were now objects of mortgage and sale like any other property in the market, and there was no power in the law to compel lay impropriators to contribute to the Church in the way which the hon. Member for Berkshire proposed. He had received a letter on this subject from a lay impropriator who had a nominal income of 500 /. /.  /.
 Major Beauclerk  observed, that the only difficulty arose from the want of a proper definition of the words "market-garden." Unless those words were properly defined, thousands of persons would spring up, and by changing the cultivation of their lands effect a fraud on the tithe-owners, by obtaining an exemption from tithes.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  observed, that that point had been fully discussed in Committee.
 Mr. Edward Buller  said, that the Dissenter might feel cause to complain even when he paid for the maintenance of a clergyman of the Established Church in the parish where his property was situate; but if the property, peculiarly subject to the payment of the rent-charge, fell into the hands of a member of the Church of England, he could have no right to object, although that rent-charge might be paid to the clergyman of a different parish, inasmuch as its purpose was the maintenance of the Church to which he belonged.
 Mr. Edward Buller  was satisfied with the proposition. He did not think the discretionary power to be reposed in the Commissioners too large. In regard to such cases as those alluded to, it would be found, that by a subsequent clause of the Bill the Commissioners were required to compare the compositions under consideration with the average rate of composition in neighbouring parishes.
 Mr. Strutt  remarked, that the effect of the amendment of the hon. Member for Middlesex was to abolish this species of tithes altogether. If such was the object of the hon. Member, he begged of him to make the proposition directly, and then it could be fairly met and disposed of, instead of by this side-wind, circuitous, and expensive mode of effecting that object. If the amendment was carried, a man had only to change his mode of cultivating his lands to be exempt from tithes, and to
 865
 Mr. Aglionby  admitted that the question was one of great difficulty, but he thought no person could have attended to the observations just made by the hon. Member for Wiltshire (Mr. Benett), without
 864
 Mr. Warburton  moved a proviso, to be added to the clause, to the effect that all gardens, not being cottage-gardens, should be deemed and taken to be market-gardens, for all the purposes of this Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  did not think that the noble Lord had fairly put the argument of his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, because the principle of the Bill was not to throw any obstacle in the way of the extraordinary application of capital by increasing the tithe on account of the im-
 862
 The Speaker : Having been appealed to
 850
 Mr. Benett  expressed his wish to do justice to all parties, and if the market gardeners were injured by the Bill, he would give them compensation, but he could not agree to an exception which would lay an embargo on the whole land of the kingdom. They were prohibited by this clause from converting their lands into gardens or growing hops. When railroads were established, land fifty or sixty, or even 100 miles off, might come into competition with the market-gardens near the metropolis, and he had no doubt that hops would be grown in other counties than those in which they were now cultivated. The principle of the Bill, which was very ably laid down by the noble Lord in bringing forward the measure, was to take off the embargo of taxation upon, and encourage the outlay of capital. By the adoption of this proposition injury would be done to so lasting an extent, as to make the Bill wholly different from what it was originally.
 Mr. Walter  said, that in recommending the clauses of which he had given notice to the consideration of the House, he did trust that he should have a friendly audience; for after all that had been said on the sufferings of those who were called the labouring clergy—the inadequacy of their remuneration—the injuries resulting; to religion, and consequently to the country, from pluralities and non-residence, he thought that it would be a great reflection on the character of honourable persons, connected in fact with the Church by the tenure of lay impropriations, if the first measure which had a tendency to diminish those great evils, by an operation or supposed operation upon their interests, were cried down. They could not put much faith in the sincerity of the lamentations which they so frequently heard from laymen—whether belonging to the Established Church or Dissenters—of the destitute state of numerous parishes, and the inadequacy of the revenues to support a resident minister, if the moment when a reasonable method of cure was suggested—and his should be no other than a reasonable one—it were rejected, because it could not effect that which was impossible, namely, apply money to the existing wants, without in fact, taking it from anywhere. He hoped he should be enabled to show, both from law and reason, from whence the money ought to come; and that it would be taken with such moderation, and under such restrictions, and with such a portion of countervailing in-
 868 l. l. 869 870 congrua porlio congrua porlio, 871 1. "And whereas, by an Act passed in the 1st and 2nd years of the reign of his present Majesty, entitled "An Act to extend the provisions of an Act passed in the 29th year of the reign of his Majesty King Charles 2nd, entitled ' An Act for confirming' and perpetuating Augmentations made by Ecclesiastical Powers to small Vicarages and Curacies,' and for other purposes, ecclesiastical corporations, and certain other corporate bodies, being owners of rectories impropriate or of any tithes, or portions of tithes, were and are enabled under certain restrictions to annex such rectories, impropriate tithes, or portions of tithes, or any part thereof, to the church or chapel of the parish or place in which the rectory impropriate shall lie, or in which the tithes, or portions of tithes, shall arise: "And whereas a great number of small vicarages and perpetual curacies, and other benefices, have been augmented by ecclesiastical corporations under the provisions of the said Act, and great benefits have resulted from such augmentations; and it is desirable that further augmentations of a like nature should be encouraged, and with that view it is expedient that such facilities as are hereinafter mentioned of augmenting small vicarages and perpetual curacies, and other benefices, should be given to lay impropriators and others: Be it therefore enacted, that it shall be lawful for any lay person or persons (not coming within the provisions of the said Act of the 1st and 2nd years of his present Majesty) who is, or are, or shall be, the owner or owners of, or who shall have any absolute power of disposition at law and equity over any rectory impropriate, or any tithes, or portion of tithes, arising in any particular parish or place, or any rent-charge for which the tithes shall have been commuted under the provisions of this Act, by a deed duly executed, to annex such rectory impropriate or tithes, or portion of tithes, or rent-charge, or any lands or tithes on rent-charge, being part or parcel of any such rectory impropriate, unto any church or chapel within the parish or place in which the rectory impropriate shall lie, or in which the tithes or portion of tithes, or rent -charge shall arise, to the intent, and in order that the same may be held by the vicar, perpetual curate, or other incumbent for the time being, of such church or chapel; and every such deed shall be effectual to all intents and purposes whatsoever, any law or statute to the
 872 "Provided always, and be it enacted, that in all cases in which any rectory, or tithes, or glebe, or any rent-charge for which tithes shall have been commuted under the provisions of this Act, shall be in the hands of any lay person or persons not coming within the provisions of the said Act of the 1st and 2nd years of his present Majesty, and it shall appear to the Bishop of the diocese in which the same shall he or arise, that the income of the vicar, perpetual curate, or other incumbent of the parish or place, where such rectory, tithes, glebe, or rent-charge, shall he or arise, is not adequate for enabling such vicar, perpetual curate, or other incumbent efficiently to discharge the duty of the church or chapel belonging to such parish or place, it shall be lawful for such Bishop, and he is hereby directed and required, by writing, under his hand and seal, to give notice thereof unto his Majesty's Commissioners appointed to consider the state of the Established Church, with reference to the ecclesiastical duties and revenues, who shall thereupon give to the person or persons who shall be in the possession or receipt of
 873 / /.  " And be it enacted, that in every case where the power of annexation hereby given shall be exercised, the instrument by which the same shall be so exercised shall, within two calendar months after the date of the same, he deposited in the registry of the diocese within the vicarage, perpetual curacy, or other benefice augmented, shall be locally situate. And an office copy of any such instrument deposited in any such registry as aforesaid (such office copy being certified by the registrar or his deputy) shall be allowed as evidence thereof in all courts and places. And every person shall be entitled to require any such office copy, and shall also be allowed at all usual and proper times to search for and inspect any instrument which shall be so deposited. And the registrar shall be entitled to the sum of 5 s. 874 " Provided also, and be it enacted, that this Act. so far as regards augmentations of vicarages, perpetual curacies, and other benefices, shall extend only to that part of the United Kingdom called England and Wales."
 Mr. Hume  said, that he considered the proportions of wheat, barley, and oats, for the valuation of the rent- charge ought to be altered; and that the proportions ought to be one-half of wheat, one quarter of barley, and one quarter of oats.
 Mr. Hume , before the House divided, wished to set himself right in respect to what had fallen from the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department. The noble Lord had stated, that this clause was the mere adoption of the proposition of the deputation which had waited upon him on this subject. He must be allowed to say, that the proposition made by him on behalf of the deputation was, that garden-ground should be placed on the same footing as similar land adjoining it, and that his whole argument had been against the injustice of giving to the clergyman a tithe upon the capital expended and employed. If the clause were his, he would now most readily give it up.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he agreed with the clause as far as the word "land" in in the 40th line, but what followed was wholly against the principle of the Bill, which was, to make a settlement once for all of the tithe question, in order to give an opportunity of improving the land by an application of capital. All land which might be cultivated as garden-grounds or hop-grounds after the commutation were to be subjected to an additional rent charge. Now he objected to this taxation of capital, and he should therefore move that all that part of the clause after the word "land," line 40, should be left out.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was monstrous that fruit and the produce of gardens should be subjected to tithe, they being the result of an amount of capital vastly greater than was applied to land used for other purposes. As respected gardens, the average of the last ten or seven years could be no fair rule, the more especially as the increasing facilities for the transport of garden produce would materially alter the value of garden ground. As respected this part of the subject, it might be difficult to alter existing practices, but he hoped that new ground would be protected.
 Mr. Hume  wished to call the attention of the House to the 9th Clause, which enacted that the salaries of the Commissioners, &c, and all other expenses attendant upon the operation of the Act, were to be paid out of the consolidated fund. Now to this he was decidedly op posed, and he did not see why the parties interested in the settlement of the tithe question should not pay a rate in proportion to the amount settled, for the purpose of defraying these expenses. It was sup posed that both parties would be benefitted by this Bill, it was supposed, too, that the public generally would be benefitted; but even allowing that they would, he did not think that the consolidated fund should be resorted to so very frequently as it had been. He should therefore move, that the remainder of the clause after the words "shall be paid" be omitted, for the purpose of inserting words to this effect—" out of a rate chargeable on those interested in the award of the Commissioners, in such a manner that all aforesaid expenses may be equally and justly borne."
 Mr. Hume  would move that the Bill be recommitted.
 Mr. Lennard  believed the clause would be very beneficial to both tithe-owners and payers. He was doubtful, however, whether it would sufficiently meet the case of landlords of small estates, who would become responsible for the payment of tithes, and be, as it were, mere bailiffs for the tithe-receiver.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  was of opinion,
 858
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  presented a petition from Ware against the payment of small tithes. He would take that opportunity of asking the noble Lord whether he meant to introduce any Bill this session for the abolition of personal tithes?
 Mr. Blamire  thought the proposition calculated to do a great deal of good; but he believed that when the Bill came into
 859
 Mr. Ewart  apprehended that neither the amendment of the noble Lord (Clive), nor the clause of which it was merely an ex tension—the clause which exempted Run corn and other towns from paying Dock rates to Liverpool, could stand—for both the clause and the amendment were against the standing orders of the House. He felt so strongly on this point, that he would not detain the House, but appeal at once to the Speaker, for he felt confident that the point of law was decidedly against the clause; but if it were to be decided otherwise, he would oppose the measure generally.
 Mr. Ewart  would proceed to oppose the Bill. The question was, whether the Dock-rate payers, a small constituency, or the immense municipal constituency of Liverpool, were to have the superintending power over the Dock estate. He said the Dock-rate payers were a small constituency. They consisted of hundreds—the municipal constituency was composed of thousands. The Dock-rate-paying constituency was a changing and fluctuating body—the constituency of the town was of a fixed and enduring character. If the Dock-rate payers formed the constituency, they might be subject to undue control. A wealthy merchant could (under the existing system) create voters only a day before the election
 851
 Mr. Jervis  said, there would be considerable difficulty in applying this clause to the wealds of Kent and Sussex. For example, how could it be applied fairly to the case
 860
 Mr. Jervis  contended, that the clause was in opposition to the principle of this Bill, as it would check the expenditure of capital upon land. It was quite right that garden-ground and hop-ground should pay the extraordinary charge as long as they remained under that mode of cultivation; but, that ground which would now have to pay the ordinary charge should be subjected to an extraordinary payment when improved by the application of capital was wholly mischievous in principle, and inconsistent with the Bill itself. The fact was, this clause was introduced merely because a deputation of hop growers had waited on the noble Lord.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  said, that such an apportionment as the right hon. Gentleman had alluded to could not take place without the consent of the tithe-owner; and the value of the portion of land on which the rent-charge might be laid must be not merely double, but at the least double of the value of the tithe due on the entire estate.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought it would be very unfair to the tithe-owner to take ad vantage of his liberality to the tithe-payer.
 Sir Robert Peel  very much doubted in this instance the propriety of attempting to impose the onus of defraying the expense upon any particular class. It was the settlement of a great national question, and he thought it but just that the expenses should be paid out of the national fund.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that if, when they came to discuss the proposition of the hon. Member, he had not more cogent arguments to adduce than those which he had now employed, a more futile motion could never have been made; and, as he had put forward these arguments in advance, he presumed that they were the most efficient which he had at his command. But he would inquire, if this exception applied to hop-grounds why should it not apply to market-gardens? And where was the injustice if hop-grounds and market-gardens were put on the same footing? The hon. Member seemed to assume that all market-gardeners were small freeholders, each cultivating their acre of land, and that their interests were to be neglected because they were humble people. But he apprehended, that, although the market-gardeners cultivated a small portion of land, the owner of that land might be a very rich man, possessing a great quantity of this kind of ground, let out to tenants-at-will, and whatever advantage would be derived if the hon. Member's proposition were agreed to, would not benefit the tenant-at-will, but the great proprietor, for they might depend upon it that when the land was out of lease he would have the advantage. The object of the Bill was to get rid of an uncertain charge on the application of capital to land, and that if a large amount of capital were expended in the improvement of land, it should not be subjected to the payment of the value of one-tenth of the produce, but of a definite sum. The Bill divided the charges made upon the
 863
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that as this question stood on separate grounds, and the noble Lord found great difficulty in dealing with it, it had better be treated as a special case, and he therefore thought it would be more advisable to leave the words "coppice wood" out of this clause, and allow the Commissioners, after an inquiry on the subject to suggest what seemed to them the best mode of dealing with this difficulty.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the alleged grievance in Ireland was, that parties were called on to maintain a Church from which they derived no benefit. Now, let the House consider what might be the operation of the present clause fifty or 100 years hence. He saw nothing in the clause to prevent tithe due on land in one parish from being apportioned on tithe situate within a different parish. Now, if a Dissenter should become possessed of the land thus subject to tithe, he would certainly have a greater grievance to complain of than that which it was alleged the Catholics of Ireland laboured
 867
 Sir Robert Price  supported the original clause, which, in his judgment, was of considerable utility. The amendment of the hon. Member for Middlesex would, if carried, operate as a great fraud upon the tithe-owners of the country.
 The Solicitor-General  proposed the introduction of a proviso at the end of Clause 35, relating to the modification of special cases, for the purpose of giving the Com missioners power in cases where the tithe owner had taken a less amount than the composition originally agreed upon, in any year during the last seven years, to fix that diminished amount as the rate of payment in future.
 The Solicitor General  supported the clause as it stood in the Bill. The clause was founded in justice, and would work beneficially to the whole community.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  would divide the House on it; a division accordingly took place:—Ayes 19; Noes 58; Majority 39.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State, to the clause, which appointed Commissioners to carry this act into execution. He thought it most important for the interest of all parties concerned, but more especially for the interest of the clergy, that it should be known who the Commissioners were to be. By the Bill as it now stood, they might be Roman Catholics, or Dissenters, or Jews, or persons of any other persuasion. Now, he held it essentially necessary that these commissioners should be members of the Church of England as by law established. He
 857
 Lord Ebrington  quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, being convinced that the success of the measure wholly depended upon the character and qualifications of the commissioners.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that from the interest made by his hon. Colleague and others, to fill the benches at the opposite side, it was very evident that the intention was to turn this, which, was strictly a com-
 852 l. l. 853 Cries of "Divide" "Question."
 Viscount Sandon  could not agree to the motion of his noble Friend, which, if carried, would ruinously affect the property of the bondholders invested in the Docks, and which all the vessels that entered the port of Liverpool were liable to. The subject was one of much interest, and very deserving the attention of the House; and he contended that such a motion at least could not be made without previous notice.
 Mr. Hodges  defended the clauses. There were only three modes; one was the abolition of tithe on market-gardens and hop-cultivation; but this would insure the rejection of the Bill in another place: the second was that proposed; and the only other course was the clauses as they stood. There would be no hardship in paying a few shillings per acre on hop-grounds, and as to market-gardens, there could be no difficulty in distinguishing who were market-gardeners.
 Colonel Thompson  could not vote for a Bill which, professing for its object the remedying the pressure on agriculture, perpetuated it in the case of hops and market-gardens.
 Lord John Russell  said, that these clauses, which had been complained of as but recently introduced, were not new, and he need only refer to the fact that they were ordered to be printed as far back as the 18th of May, and it was then the 27th of June. Upwards of a month had consequently elapsed since their principle had been divulged. He contended that the clauses in question were framed as much for the benefit of those classes who were subjected to the higher rent-charge, as of those who were liable to the smaller rate of charge. The hon. Member for Bridport had not supported the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex, but had come forward with an entirely new proposition. He trusted that the House would not, by rejecting the clauses, place the parties who were more immediately affected by its provisions in a position of such extreme risk as must inevitably be the case were the amendment to be agreed to. He did not see how those persons could be guarded from very considerable loss, unless by the preservation of these clauses, founded as they were upon the principle on which they were avowedly framed.
 Lord John Russell  agreed with the gallant Officer, that the tithe on fish ought to be made the subject of further inquiry. He fully concurred in what had fallen from several hon. Members in the course of the discussion, that, whether the present Bill affected the interests of the clergy or the landholders, there was no question whatever but that it was one of a roost import-
 978
 Lord J. Russell  brought up some clauses, which were agreed to.
 Lord J. Russell  brought up a clause, which related to the mode of distraining on the rent-charge for the recovery of rates. Upon this a division took place:—Ayes 107; Noes 39;—Majority for the Clause 68.
 Lord John Russell  said, he would now make the motion of which he had already given notice, that Orders of the Day have precedence of motions from the I of July next. It had been usual, of late years, to make such a motion at an advanced period of the Session, and it was obviously of great advantage to send up to the House of Lords the Bills which were to be pressed through at as early a period as possible, in the month of July. Undoubtedly, should they
 969
 Lord John Russell  said, that in moving that the Bill be read a third time, he should state to the House that he meant to propose the introduction of the clauses which he had referred to on a former occasion. One of them was on the subject of coppice wood, the value of which he proposed to estimate according to the average value of the years 1834, 1835, and 1836. This was in conformity with the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. The other clause gave a power to the occupier of the land to deduct the amount of rent-charge he should have paid, from the owner of the land. Having explained the nature of the clauses, the noble Lord concluded by moving the third reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Baines  considered, that if anybody of men were indebted to his Majesty's Ministers for having brought forward the present measure more than any other, it was the clergy of the Established Church. He called upon hon. Members to show him any measure that had passed in any age which had conferred so great a benefit on the clergy. When tithes were taken in kind by the clergy, they were looked upon as the fleeces, rather than as the protectors of their flocks. It had been said, and it was cited as a friendly feeling on the part of the clergy towards the present measure, that the clergy had not come forward and petitioned against the measure. All he could say on that subject was, that he was sure that it would be received as a been by the Church. Neither had the Dissenters petitioned against it; and when the discussion of their claims came on, he was satisfied the clergy would manifest similar feelings to those which had been displayed by the Dissenters in reference to this subject.
 Mr. Robinson  said, he would not oppose so desirable a step on the part of the Government with a view to getting through the business of the Session; at the same time he thought it rather hard upon those hon. Members whose motions stood upon the notice book, and many of which had been postponed till the present late period with the expectation of bringing them on. 
 Sir George Sinclair  observed, that the motion of the noble Lord opened an extensive field for argument, and might give rise to an adjourned debate of at least two nights, as it was in the power of any or every Member to select as many of the notices as he thought proper, and urge the importance of each as a ground for resisting the noble Lord's proposition. He (Sir G. Sinclair) was one of the noble Lord's earliest victims, as he had a notice on the books for the 5th of July, with respect to the College of Maynooth. He was, however, quite satisfied with the noble Lord's arrangement, as far as he was personally concerned, for he had previously determined, at the suggestion of some respected Irish friends to postpone, until next Session, a formal motion on that subject, and then to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the system of instruction pursued at that establishment, an inquiry which it would be impossible to enter upon with advantage before the prorogation. It would also be perfectly competent for himself, as well as for any other Member, to state on the Irish miscellaneous estimates the grounds on which a grant for such a purpose as that to which May-
 970
 Mr. Warburton  was inclined not simply to negative the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, but to extend the right of voting as at present possessed by leaseholders, if such a matter could be introduced into the Bill before the House. He contended, however, that in a Bill of this kind no clause of such a description could be introduced. The clause of the hon. Baronet, he had heard, would in one
 971
 Mr. Warburton  did not consider his plan justly liable to the charge of ex travagance. As far as his own opinion went, it was decidedly in favour of having but one judge to sit on appeals, but let that one be fully competent to perform the duties that would be imposed on him.
 Mr. Warburton  had, too, like the right hon. Member for Tamworth, a plan of his own, but he would not bring it forward for discussion, as he feared it would not lead at present to any practical result. He did not despair, however, and at no distant time, to see tithes totally abolished, the Church provided for out of the Consolidated Fund, and the Corn Laws abolished. This was the only way in which the question could be finally and satisfactorily adjusted.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that there were 50,000 acres used in the cultivation of hops, and that the land employed as market-gardens might be taken at 10,000 acres. By allowing these clauses to remain they would be for the protection of the growers upon those lands, and render the whole of the lands which might be here-
 981
 Mr. H. Curteis  thought, that the Bill ought to be thankfully received by those parts of the country where low tithes existed; but sure he was, that as regarded the landowners of his part of the country it would not be received as a been at all, because it went to fix a portion of the tithe unjustly as regarded the owners of the soil. At the same time he thought the Government deserved the thanks of the
 977
 Mr. Curteis  said, that if these clauses were struck out of the Bill it would oblige many persons to vote against it.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  said, that the petitioners appeared to assume that the King of Holland was bound by all treaties into which he had entered as King of the Netherlands. Now, he apprehended that was a position that might be questioned.
 Mr. Parrott  owned, that he also had entertained objections to the Bill when it was first introduced, but they had all vanished during its progress through the House. The Bill was as fair to all parties as it could be made.
 Mr. Benett  said, that he had been Strongly in favour of the present Bill, and
 976
 Mr. Benett  seconded the motion. This provision would place landlords in a worse situation than before. He had expected that the Bill would make a complete commutation of tithes; instead of which, unless those clauses were struck out, it would be a mischievous measure.
 Mr. Hume  moved that the two Clauses 37 and 38, which had been added to the Bill since it was first printed, being a provision for the charge of hop-grounds and market-gardens, should be rejected. He considered that the retention of these clauses would break into the principle of the Bill, that they would keep the door open to irritation and altercation, whereas the question ought to be settled at once and for ever.
 Mr. Hume  was also very anxious to see a settlement of this question. The right hon. Baronet was perfectly right in stating, that if a settlement of this question were not come to now, and if agitation were allowed to continue, the Church would be the sufferer. He did not rise to oppose the third reading of the Bill, but he must say, that if the two clauses proposed by the noble Lord were allowed to be inserted, the agitation would only begin. He entreated the noble Lord to reconsider this question with respect to market-gardeners and hop-grounds. If such lands were brought in under the special exceptions,
 975
 Mr. Hume  thought it extremely desirable that they should endeavour to get through the public business. He had already presented a petition from Upper Canada, and he had given notice of a motion as soon as the papers were on the Table; with the exception of that urgent question, he pledged himself that he would not interfere with the Orders of the Day.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  presented a Petition signed by 150 of the most respectable merchants and manufacturers of Glasgow complaining of the infraction by the Dutch of the Treaty of 1824, regarding the importation of British goods into Java, and calling on the House to compel the Dutch Government to adhere to the terms of that treaty. The cession of that island to the Dutch took place at the close of the war, and subsequently the Dutch made several successive efforts to impose higher duties on the British goods imported there, especially on woollens and cottons, than they had agreed to levy in the first instance. Then came the Treaty of 1824, which was negociated by Mr. Canning, who agreed that English goods should be admitted there at a duty of six per cent, where Dutch goods were admitted free, and that where Dutch goods were subjected to a duty, English goods should only have to pay double such duty. The Dutch Government had en-
 968
 Mr. Lennard  said, there were other cases in which it would be difficult to say whether fields did not come within the description of market-gardens. The clauses broke into the principle of the Bill; they would continue the exactions of tithe-owners, and perpetual disputes.
 Captain Pechell  was glad that the Bill had been brought to its present stage, as he had no doubt of its effecting a great deal of good. He hoped, however, that the tithe on fish would be reconsidered, and that Government would send a Commission into Norfolk and Cornwall to institute an inquiry with regard to the state of the fisheries in those places.
 Sir James Graham  adverted to the clause which he had brought forward on a former evening as declaratory of the meaning and intention of the 25th Clause of the Reform Act. His noble Friend had stated on a former evening that he would consult with the Attorney-General as to whether such a Clause were necessary to give effect to the original design and intention of the Reform Act; he wished to know whether the noble Lord would now support the clause?
 Sir James Graham  said, he should then press the declaratory clause of which he had given notice, as he considered it consistent with the spirit of the Reform Bill, and calculated to prevent the increase of mushroom votes. The hon. Baronet moved, a clause to the effect that no lease or assignment of a term of sixty years or twenty years respectively, or any unexpired portion of such terms which confer a right of voting for a city or borough, shall confer a right of voting for the county in which such city or borough is situated.
 Sir James Graham  thought, that the proposition of the hon. Member (Mr. Warburton) would lead to very unnecessary extravagance. He thought that, instead of creating a new court of appeal to revise the decisions of revising barristers, they might be referred to the Court of Review in Bankruptcy, and thus a saving of 5,000 l.
 The Attorney-General  admitted, that at present the Court of Review was very im-
 972
 The Attorney-General  said, that he had considered the clause to which his noble Friend had drawn his attention, and it was extremely difficult to say what construction should be put upon it. It was a question upon which the Revising Barristers had differed, and it was one upon which much might be said on both sides. He was not prepared to say what was the intention of the framers of the Reform Act, as he was not then a member of the Government. The interpretation of the Clause must be considered a  questio vexata.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that, notwithstanding the resistance to tithes in Ireland, their payment was now enforced by the power of the law, and he should be sorry to think that law would not have the same power in England. He objected to the basis of the commutation, as not being a fair one. In a recent period, as contrasted with the present, the produce of the land was as four to seven. If tithe, then, was, as he firmly believed it to be, the first lien on the land, why should the owner of such property be so unfairly dealt with? If a proposition like the present had been made formerly, in what condition would the Church be now? There was a case in point, which would serve to illustrate his argument. There was a parish which paid 5 l. s. l., l.
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that the hon. Gentleman had himself shown that it was not necessarily as absurd to subject lands hereafter employed in the cultivation of hops and market-produce to an increased tithe, as it would be subject to hops, waste, and arable land which might be hereafter employed in the cultivation of corn, because he had himself stated that hop and garden grounds were of a special nature— there being, indeed, as he had said, only 50,000 acres of the one, and 10,000 acre of the other. He could not, therefore, contend that it was right to assimilate the two cases. It would be manifestly unjust towards that land which was now employed in the cultivation of hops and market-produce, and which consequently would pay tithe as such; if they allowed other land to be employed in the same species of cultivation, and get free from tithe, they would be, in fact, offering a positive premium on the application of unfit land to the cultivation of certain articles. He would not deny, that the arrangement proposed by these clauses was likely to occasion some inconvenience; but still he felt that it was more reconcilable to justice than any other which had been proposed on the opposite side of the House. No difficulty, he apprehended, could arise in regard to hop-grounds; nothing could be easier than to determine hereafter what was a hop-ground. But he admitted, that there was some difficulty in defining by law what should be hereafter considered as a market-garden. There might be land at the distance of twenty miles from a town, not coming under the designation of a market garden in the conventional interpretation of the term, and being cultivated as a field, but from which
 982
 Sir Robert Peel  was anxious to say a few words on the general question as to whether this Bill should be read a third time or not. In the anterior part of the Session he had introduced a Bill, the provisions of which were identical with the Bill he had introduced last year, when he had the honour of being a Minister of the Crown. The object of that Bill was to facilitate the voluntary commutation of tithes. He slated that the principle of a compulsory commutation might be made the subject of a future Bill, when the experience of voluntary commutation would have suggested the most equitable principles on which compulsory commutation might be applied. He still preferred the Bill he had himself introduced, to the Bill
 973 l. l. maximum minimum, 974
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that at present they had three Judges in the Court of Review, who were but very partially occupied, and they were about to create three more, who would have but very little more to do; he really did not think that such a multiplication of judicial authority was necessary.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that on the bringing up of the Report he should call the attention of the House to the clause which gave the appointment of the Revising Barristers to the Crown. He felt a very strong objection to enactments which delegated a power of legislation to persons out of that House. With regard to the appointment of those gentlemen, he would infinitely prefer that the selection should vest in the Lord Chancellor, and not in the Home Secretary, because he entertained a conviction that, were such the case, the appointment would be freer from political bias, and consequently a smaller extent of political effect would arise at elections.
 Sir Robert Price  supported the amendment. The clauses would introduce an ordinary charge and an extraordinary charge in the same parish on account of a single field considered as garden.
 Lord Ebrington  congratulated both his noble Friend and the House generally on the prospect of bringing this most important question to a final and satisfactory conclusion. He considered that the Bill now under discussion was calculated to effect more real benefit than any other measure upon the subject of Tithe Commutation which had been introduced for years; and as regarded the Church, he must say, that its warmest friends had good cause to congratulate themselves, not only on the passing of the Bill, but on the calm and tranquil manner in which the discussions upon it had taken place. The agricultural interest would also have cause of congratulation in the final adjustment of the question, and he considered that the Government by whom it was introduced were entitled to the thanks of the country.
 Viscount Palmerston  apprehended that there could be no question at all about the matter, and that the King of Holland was as much bound by such treaties as if there had been no revolution in Belgium at all. He would detain the House for only a few minutes on this subject. It was true that for a great number of years the Dutch Government had violated the treaty to which his hon. Friend had adverted. The matter had been for a long while the subject of negotiation. The Dutch Government at last admitted that their former regulations were incompatible with their engagements under the treaty of 1824, and they had altered them, but not as yet, as he (Lord Palmerston) would contend, in such a manner as to render them conformable to the letter of that treaty. He had no doubt that, upon further representation being made to it, the Dutch Government would see the propriety of rendering the regulations respecting the importation of British goods into Java conformable to the letter of that treaty, and no efforts should be wanting on the part of His Majesty's Government to bring about that end.
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  said, that he rose to present three petitions affecting the conduct of the Executive Government in Van Dieman's Land, and he hoped therefore that the House would permit him to make a short statement on the subject. The first petition was from Mr. W. Bryan. The petitioner stated, that in the year 1830 he was appointed a magistrate in that colony; that in 1833 a servant of his was sentenced to death for cattle-stealing, and that while the said servant was in prison, awaiting the execution of his sentence, a magistrate of the colony of the name of Littleton was heard to make remarks on the conduct of Mr. Bryan, and to say that Mr. Bryan ought to be hanged instead of his servant. On hearing of this the petitioner sent a message to Mr. Littleton, demanding an explanation, which the latter refused. The petitioner then wrote to the Executive Government, demanding; an investigation and an inquiry into the charges against him, which if true ought to be established. That inquiry was refused him. The petitioner then gave in his resignation of the office of magistrate. It was not accepted; but in the most contumelious manner his name was erased from the list of magistrates. The petitioner went on to state, that in November, 1833, all the assigned servants (as the convict servants were called) in his employment were withdrawn from him, by order of the Government, and that as this occurred in the middle of the sheep-shearing season, their loss was a great hardship to him. He then brought an action in the civil courts against the Governor and Executive Council for the loss he had sustained, but that, as the court decided on sending his action to an interested tribunal, he refused to go before it, and directed his solicitor to
 1002
 Sir George Grey  said, that it was perfectly true that Colonel Arthur did erase the name of Mr. Bryan from the commission of the peace, and removed the assigned servants that were in his employment. The latter power was one that was necessarily vested in the hands of the Governor of a penal colony, for the purpose of maintaining discipline amongst the convicts, and though the propriety of its exercise in a particular instance might become a fair question for consideration, he (Sir George Grey) was sure that no one would call in question the necessity for its existence. He would not on this occasion go into a statement on the part of Colonel Arthur, in answer to the allegations of the petitioner. The vindication which Colonel Arthur had made of his conduct to the Colonial-office was perfectly satisfactory to the Government, and for the present he would leave the House to form its opinion of that conduct from the statement of the petitioner himself. He would merely add, that he would move that the despatches of Colonel Arthur relating to the erasure of the petitioner's name from the commission of the peace, and to the dismissal of his servants, be laid before the House.
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  said, he had now to present the petition of Mr. Henry Melville, of Hobart-town, Van Dieman's Land, proprietor of the  Colonial Times 1003 l.
 Sir George Grey  said, that Mr. Melville having written what was considered a libel on the Court of Justice in Hobart-town, the court took it up as a contempt of court, and without the intervention of a jury sentenced Mr. Melville to fine and imprisonment. His Majesty's Government last year, after consulting the law-officers of the Crown, had expressed their decided disapprobation of the practice in reference to a case that occurred in Newfoundland. The statement which he (Sir G. Grey) made on that occasion in the House having reached Van Dieman's Land, the governor immediately remitted the sentence on Mr. Melville, and before a memorial from Mr. Melville reached the Colonial-office, they had received the governor's despatches
 1004
 Mr. Melville's  petition to lie on the table.
 Mr. O'Connell  considered it quite clear that a gross neglect of duty had taken place on the part of this magistrate; for if any offence had been committed by the petitioner, why had he not been sent to trial? But though sent to gaol, no criminal charge had been lodged against him, and the ballad described as treasonable and seditious, was carefully kept back. He was sorry to see, that while in this country every one put himself forward as the advocate of the poor, in Ireland there was no hope of justice for the oppressed.
 Lord John Russell  moved the third reading of the Registration of Births Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to move an amendment. In doing so he wished it to he understood, that he had no objection to the Bill, so far as it went to remove one of the
 1012 1013 1014
 Lord John Russell  said, I shall not enter into any lengthened discussion upon this subject, I agree with what the right hon. Gentleman has stated as to the importance of the rite of baptism, but it does seem to me that he has made out no proof that the effect of this clause would be, that children would not be brought to the font; and I do not see any reason why those who believe the administration of the rite of baptism to be essential to the welfare of their children, should not bring their children to be baptised without being under the necessity of resorting to a private baptism. Indeed, the right hon. Gentleman has given one reason which clearly shows that the inducement to members of the Church of England, to baptise their children, will be as strong when the Bill is passed as at present. If the reading of the burial-service depend upon the due performance of the rite of baptism, and if the incumbent on learning that that rite has not been performed, is compelled to harrow up the feelings of relatives and friends by refusing to read the service; why surely this will operate very strongly, as inducement to parents to take their children to be baptised. And I really cannot see why the mere inserting of their children's names in a public register, should be of itself an act which would prevent them from so doing. As I see, therefore, no reason whatever to apprehend the consequences which the right hon. Gentleman anticipates from this Bill, I cannot consent to adopt his amendment.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, with respect to what the noble Lord seemed to think, that the rite of baptism would be as much regarded, if the Bill passed as it was now, he (Sir Robert Inglis) would remind the noble Lord that the name under this Bill must be given within, a certain number of
 1015
 Mr. Ewart  objected to the mode in which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to carry his object into effect; the postponement of the naming the child till after baptism, would in his opinion be a most circuitous method, and one which would throw great difficulties in the attainment of the general object of the Bill. And as to the ground on which the right hon. Gentleman proposed his amendment, viz. that the Bill as it stood now would encourage the omission of the rite of baptism, he (Mr. Ewart) was quite convinced that conscientious persons would never omit the rite of baptism merely because of that Bill, and those who were not conscientious would not be rendered more attentive to the rite by reason of the amendment of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Dr. Bowring  agreed with his hon. Friend, the Member for Liverpool. The object of the Bill was misunderstood by Gentlemen opposite. It was not to promote the observance of a religious rite, but to supply, by means of a general registry, statistical information, which it was highly necessary for the advantage of the community that the state should possess.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  hoped the amendment would be pressed to a division, and expressed his regret that he should hear such a sentiment as that expressed by the hon. Member who had just sat down with respect to marriage. He trusted that a respectable minority would support the valuable amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge.
 Dr. Lushington  said, he could not perceive in the whole of the Bill one provision which had the slightest tendency to prevent or discourage compliance with any of the rites of the Church of England, or even to render compliance with them more onerous than they were at present. The complaints of hon. Gentlemen opposite might apply to some Bill existing in their own imagination; but to the Bill before the House, they had no application whatever. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford University, had assumed that all the members of the Church of England were content with the existing system of registration. Whereas, it must be obvious to every one having any experience in these matters that they suffered as much from the evils of that system as the Dissenters; with respect to the amendment of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, did he mean to make his provision compulsory or optional upon parties? He (Dr. Lushington) apprehended not compulsory, but if it were made optional, he asked was there not a probability almost amounting to certainty, that numbers of persons would not go back to the registrar with the name of the child who had been baptised, to be inserted in the registry? And would not then the whole object of the registry be frustrated,—the securing the identity of the persons registered? He (Dr. Lushington) saw no reason for this amendment upon a religious ground. If he were discussing a Bill which in his opinion was calculated to injure the Church of England, by appearing to encourage neglect of her rites on the part of her members, he would not hesitate, as a member of that Church, in giving it his opposition. But he must say he could see no tendency of that kind in the Bill before the House. He was yet to learn that the compelling members of the Church of England to register the name of their children before baptism, had a tendency to encourage their omission of that rite altogether.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, it was gratifying to observe, that this discussion had been carried on in a tone and temper worthy of the House, and suitable to the gravity and importance of the subject under consideration. It had been admitted on the opposite side, that it would be a great evil, by any legislative enactment, to relax the sense of the importance which at present attached to the performance of the baptismal rite. The question then was, whether such was likely to be the result of this Bill. He did not think that the object of those who framed the Bill was to bring the baptismal rite into disrepute or abeyance. His complaint was, that they undervalued and overlooked the probable practical working of the measure. By law and usage the name of the child had been associated with the baptismal ceremony. This was and had been the universal practice of the Church of England. It had also, he believed, been the practice of the Roman Catholic Church; and if he were not mistaken, the majority of the Dissenters looked upon baptism as essential in naming their children. What was proposed by the Bill? By a legislative enactment, to sanction the naming of a child without the baptismal ceremony. Could that be looked upon by the unthinking and uneducated in any other light than as a disregard of that ceremony? An Act of Parliament separated the naming of the child from the baptismal rite, and made the registration as valid as the ceremony. This might not be productive of any evil consequences amongst the upper and more respectable classes, who would most probably resort both to the registration and the baptism; but what would be its effect upon the great mass of the population? Would it not be an inducement to them to rest content with having the name entered upon the civil record? Many plausible arguments had been used in support of the measure, and amongst others this, that where there was a true sense of religious feeling, the ceremony would be resorted to. Now it was of the utmost importance, that where this religious sense did not exist, the House should, as much as possible, indicate its necessity. It was impossible to say how the feeling in favour of the religious observance could be best created; but surely the omission of the ceremony, as proposed by this Bill, was not the way to promote it. It had been urged, that if registration
 1018
 Lord John Russell  was very sorry that parish-clerks should suffer from the operation of the Bill; but he did not see how he could provide compensation for the losses they might sustain, as he could not tell to what fees they were legally entitled, and what they had legally received. Hereafter Parliament might take the case into its consideration, and give such compensation as the circumstances seemed to require.
 Lord Francis Egerton  called the noble Lord's attention to another case, which was not less hard than the case of the parish-clerk's, namely, that of those gentlemen who served parochial cures, not only in the metroplis where the evil chiefly prevailed, but in all great towns. The income of these gentlemen was in many cases derived from the fees received upon births and marriages, and he, therefore, hoped that the noble Lord would not refuse to hold out the same hope to them which he had permitted parish-clerks to entertain.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  remarked, that one of the most valuable pieces of preferment in the metropolis would, if this Bill passed, hardly be worth holding.
 Sir Robert Peel  remarked, that the parish clerks stood now in a better position than they did in the morning, for the noble Lord in alleging that he did not know what the amount of their losses might be, and whether their fees were legal, impliedly promised that if their losses were ascertained and their fees were shown to be legal, he would do something for them. This would,
 1021
 Mr. Goulburn  moved the addition of a clause, whereby it was required that in all cases where marriages were solemnized not in a church or chapel according to the rites of the Church of England, the parties should make the following declaration:— "I do solemnly declare that I have conscientious scruples against the solemnization of marriage according to the rites and ceremonies of the Church of England.'' The right hon. Gentleman said, that there were Dissenters as well as members of the Church of England, who thought a religious ceremony requisite to the validity of a marriage; and nothing more was required by this clause than that those who considered marriage as purely a civil contract, should make a declaration to that effect. The object of the clause was to prevent members of the Church of England from adopting this form, which might have serious consequences, and to limit it to persons who really had conscientious scruples upon the subject. He did not wish to enforce forms which were objected to, but members of the Church of England were convinced of the necessity of retaining the awful denunciations against improper marriages, which would be omitted in the mere civil contract. All he asked the House to do by this clause was, that where marriages were to be celebrated as a mere civil ceremony, the persons requiring them to be so performed should make this declaration. The effect would be, that marriages in registered buildings would be confined, as they ought to be, to persons who had conscientious scruples against the ceremony as solemnized by the Church, and the same awful denunciations which now existed in respect to marriages so solemnized would be retained as regarded all members of the Established Church, who would be bound by the same obligations as at present, and instructed in the same duties.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that if this clause was adopted, it would defeat the great object and principle of the Bill. If he understood its principle and intent, it was to afford relief to the great body of Dissenters by having them that to which
 1022 1023 vice versa, ex parte
 Mr. Wynn  maintained, that the House of Commons was not the proper judge of a question of this kind, and that resort ought to be had to the proper tribunals provided by the Constitution, There was too strong a disposition at this time to pass by the regular tribunals for the administration of justice, and to appeal to the House.
 Mr. Pouller  said, that the state of the public business at this period of the session, was such as to induce him to move that the House should sit on Thursday next, at twelve o'clock.
 Mr. Babies  said, that such a clause would deprive the Bill of all its efficacy. If he stood alone, he would divide the House against its adoption. The right hon. Member for the University of Oxford had certainly shown that the Bill, as it stood, contained a provision of a similar character. He (Mr. Baines) was shocked and astonished when the right hon. Gentleman read it; and how it came there he was utterly at a loss to conceive. He hoped, however, that the House would fulfil the pledge which they had given to the Dissenters, and would strike out so obnoxious a clause. The right hon. Gentleman had no right to call on the Dissenters to declare that they had a conscientious scruple to the performance of the marriage ceremony according to the rites of the Church of England. They could not make such a declaration. They might have a moral objection—they might have
 1024
 Colonel Thompson  hoped that nothing which proceeded from the opposite side would induce the noble Lord to disappoint the expectations which had been raised in the mind of every friend of religious toleration. If he did, it would go forth to
 1027
 Mr. Goulburn  was anxious to point the attention of the House to what must be the state of marriages, with respect to the Church of England, if this proviso were adopted. As the Bill at present stood, including this proviso, there was nothing to prevent the son or daughter of any member of the Church of England from contracting the most imprudent marriage, and having it celebrated without any-religious ceremony whatever, or in a Dissetting meeting-house. That was an evil. It opened a door within the pale of the Church of England for the contraction of marriages civilly and in a clandestine manner. But if this proviso were removed, they would go a step further, and declare that marriage migh be contracted in contempt of every religious ceremony which heretofore had sanctified it, and in this way any individual who wished to seduce a girl might go with her at once to the superintending registrar, the sanctions hitherto surrounding marriage being entirely dissolved, and marry her in a clandestine manner.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, that however grateful the Dissenters might be to the noble Lord, he was quite sure that the members of the Church of England would feel anything but grateful. Agreeing with his right hon. Friend below him in the exposition he had made of the consequences of the omission of these words— looking to the most extraordinary and unprecedented conduct of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State, which he would take the liberty of saying was unworthy of a Member of the Government, or of a Member of that House—after his desertion of a clause which he had himself, on his own responsibility, introduced; and after this violation of the principles which he had himself professed with reference to this Bill, he should feel that he was wanting both to his own principles, and to those of the Established Church, if he did not move that the passing of this Bill be postponed to this day six months. He agreed with the principle of the Bill as originally introduced; but he thought, that by the omission of the words in question, the Church of England was placed in the situation of an inferior, and he must therefore press his motion.
 Mr. Law  rose to support the amendment proposed by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn). He was ready to concede to the Dissenter every thing that the Dissenter could fairly require; but he apprehended that the Dissenter was not ashamed of his dissent, and that upon the most solemn arrangement of his life he would not wish to deal otherwise than openly and fairly; and he apprehended further that the Legislature had a right to require from the Dissenter, as well as from the member of the Established Church, an observance of that form of marriage which should be supposed to be most binding upon his conscience. The proposition of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Goulburn) went only to this: that before a man was permitted to disengage himself from any religious ceremony in matters of marriage, he should declare that he entertained either a religious or a conscientious dissent from the form prescribed by law. He (Mr. Law) thought that proposition to be perfectly reasonable. The noble Lord had intimated his intention of rejecting the clause; he must concede to the noble Lord the merit of consistency and of pliancy to his party. Was it not the
 1026
 Lord John Russell  agreed in opinion with those who had said that the words of the clause would deprive the Bill of all efficacy as a relief to the Dissenters. The great majority of the Dissenters claimed the performance of the marriage ceremony in their own chapel; but if this declaration was necessary, it was impossible for the great majority of the Dissenters, who might not have conscientious scruples, to take advantage of the Bill, which would thus be rendered nugatory. The hon. Baronet, and the hon. Member behind him, had taken advantage of the clause which related to the civil contract; in which a declaration had been introduced, it was said, with his sanction. It had been introduced on bringing up the Report,  prima facie, 1025
 Lord John Russell  said, that after the advantage which had been taken of the words of that declaration, and the inferences which had been drawn from its introduction by the hon. Gentleman opposite, he could not but feel that the words were contrary to the general principle of the Bill, and, therefore, not wishing to sanction any deviation from its principle, he thought it would be much better to omit them altogether.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the noble Lord having been pleased to cast a censure on his conduct, he really thought himself obliged to remind the noble Lord of what he seemed to have wholly forgotten— namely, that the Bill which he now proposed to be passed, was in the same shape and on the same principle as the Bill as originally brought in. If he had introduced such a proviso as that which was just left out—if he had laid much stress on it, and said that he thought it was a necessary part of the Bill, then perhaps the noble Lord might have been justified, in that state of the facts, in using the
 1038
 Colonel Perceval  added, that the magistrate had acted upon his own personal cognizance, that Byrne was singing treasonable ballads.
 Colonel Perceval  said, before he adverted to the charges contained in the petition, he must beg leave to thank the hon. Member for the courtesy he had shown in postponing the presentation of the petition at an earlier period, and also for his having given him notice of his intention of presenting it that day. The petition was from an individual, calling himself a native of the county of Mayo,
 1005 1006 1007 "Ballinrobe, June 8, 1836." "I have just read that a petition has been forwarded to Mr. Dillon Browne, M.P., for this county, for presentation to the House of Commons, in which the conduct of Mr. Cuffe, as a magistrate, is reflected upon for having committed to gaol John Byrne, a ballad singer, on the 16th of May last. "I did not happen to see this man on that day, but I did on the following; and I can assure you, that Mr. Cuffe's conduct in committing him was highly proper, at least in my judgment, and that of all the respectable persons in the town; for I have never seen so depraved a character as Byrne seemed to be. His savage yells, blasphemous vociferations, and rebellious defiance of the authorities, rendered the exhibition he made of himself awfully revolting to the community."
 Colonel Perceval  had only stated, that he held two affidavits in his hand, from the two officers to whom he had alluded, stating that the petitioner had been singing treasonable and seditious ballads; he had never said that he had seen any of them. And when the hon. Member for Middlesex measuring others by himself, tried to convict him of telling an untruth, he would appeal to the House and the recollection of hon. Gentlemen as to what precisely he did say.—A particular ballad having been alluded to by the hon. Member, he must say there could be no doubt each differed very widely in his notions of sedition—so much so, indeed, that what he considered seditious, the hon. Member would perhaps
 1008
 Mr. Baines  said, it was consistent. He had approved of the bill of the right hon. Baronet, but he had slated at the time that he should have liked it better if it caused the civil contracts to be accompanied with a religious ceremony. He now supported the Bill of the noble Lord, because he thought it went farther towards the attainment of his wish in that respect, than the measure of the right hon. Baronet —[an  Hon. Member,
 Mr. Baines  said, that he had not suggested that there should be a legal obligation. The word "law" was not introduced into the Bill. He had expressed, and still felt, an anxiety that the marriage rite should be attended, and he believed that, under the provisions of this Bill, it would be attended in almost every case, with a religious ceremony. That feeling he entertained then, and that feeling he entertained now. He should not have thought so humble an individual as himself entitled to obtrude his opinions on the House, had they not been brought so prominently forward. With respect to the Bill now passed, he would say it was a Bill calculated to give content and satisfaction to a body of persons who had at all times been anxious to enjoy the privileges to which they were entitled, but it deprived the members of the Established Church of no privilege which they now possessed. Did hon. Members mean to deny that? Would not members of the Established Church be at liberty to go to Church to have their marriage solemnized as before? The noble Lord was much more able to defend his own conduct than he was, and, therefore, he (Mr. Baines) would not trouble the House by attempting it.
 Mr. Baines  replied, that if the son of a gentleman chose to marry the housemaid, he was at quite as much liberty to do so in the Church as in any other place.
 Mr. Shaw  said, the time of the House ought not to be occupied with trifling complaints of this nature. The question was not, whether the ballad was treasonable or not, but, as stated by his hon. and gallant Friend, whether Mr. Cuffe, in the discharge of his duty as a magistrate, had acted wrong, when, upon his own responsibility, and apprehending a disturbance of the public peace, he had committed for a short time to prison the individual through whose means that breach of the peace was likely to occur. Would English gentlemen like such complaints as these to be made against them, as magistrates, upon such grounds? He most earnestly, and once for all, protested against the doctrine, that the poor man could not procure legal redress in Ireland, and in the present case no attempt was made to seek
 1010
 Mr. Handley  observed, that the hon. Member for Leeds had held himself out as the representative of the Dissenters. He was surprised, indeed, that the organ of a body to which he knew that many conscientious and religious men belonged, should stand up in his place the advocate of a measure which would enable not only the sons of members of the Established
 1037
 Mr. Warburton  said, that after the intimation given by the noble Lord, and the decision which the House had come to on the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, he should content himself with simply moving the omission of the declaration contained in the 18th Clause.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he was no advocate for the desecration of the marriage rite. But what was the object of an oath? The object was to bind the conscience, and the State, in prescribing oaths, was compelled to allow persons to appeal to false gods and even devils. The object of an oath and of a marriage ceremony was to bind the conscience, and to make it obligatory on those who contracted marriage to observe the duties consequent upon it.
 The Speaker  interposed. The hon. Member had no right to charge the hon. and gallant Colonel with an intention to defend magistrates who had violated the law.
 Dr. Bowring  thought, that the Dissenters would feel deeply grateful to the noble Lord for his conduct to-night.
 Mr. Hardy  expressed his determination to vote against the proposition made by the right hon. Gentleman, and to support the clause proposed by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Poulter  did not doubt the importance of the Select Committee to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, but he must observe, that there were measures of equal importance now upon the table, which it would be impossible to carry through this session without that opportunity, which a day-sitting of the House afforded, being given to hon. Members charged with those Bills. He had been intrusted with a measure relating to the government of the town of Poole, which was deeply inter-resting to those who sought its benefits, and which they could not obtain except by a concession of his present motion.
 Mr. Brotherton  was also unfavourable to morning sittings.
 Mr. Hume  was anxious, as the hon. and gallant Colonel had talked of seditious ballads, to know whether he had seen or could produce them. Perhaps he could inform the House whether they belonged to the same school with that of which they had heard so much, and of which two of the lines run thus:—
 "Put your trust in God, my boys, And keep your powder dry."
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  protested against the time of the House being wasted with such matters. If any injury had been done to this individual, he could bring his action at law against the magistrate. The attention of Government should have been called to the subject, and they would no doubt have directed the necessary inquiries to be made.
 Mr. Pease  said, that he had been an advocate for the morning sittings, but experience convinced him that their continuance would have been highly disadvantageous.
 Mr. Sheil  referred to the use sometimes made of ballads in debates in Parliament, of which he had himself witnessed a very recent instance. If any information had been sworn before Mr. Cuffe, he might have been justified in the course he had pursued; but here it was merely suggested, that the language of the ballads was seditious and treasonable. There certainly was no better judge of treason and rebellion than the hon. and gallant Member; but he had not answered the question where any of these seditious and treasonable ballads were to be found. The right hon. Member for Monmouthshire had asked if this were a fit question for the House? Undoubtedly, if a magistrate exceeded his duty by committing a man, the party injured could appeal to no more proper tribunal. The right hon. Gentleman's knowledge of the forms of the House was great and accurate, but he knew very little of its great constitutional powers. If an individual were aggrieved, he had a right to state his grievance to the House. Here it was evident that the law had been violated, and the liberty of the subject improperly restrained; and he trusted that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland would take care to investigate all the facts of the case.
 Mr. Townley  said, that whatever might be the fate of the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, he hoped the test in the 18th Clause would be excluded, because it was most offensive to those for whose benefit the Bill was said to have been intended. He should certainly oppose that part of the clause in question.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  begged, if what he had stated were considered at all out of order, at once to apologize to the House; still, however, he could not but think the hon. and gallant Colonel had shown much anxiety that the spirit of liberty should not be extended to the county of Mayo.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  had presented the petition without at all reflecting or intending to reflect on the character of Mr. Cuffe. The case, however, demanded an inquiry, and he hoped the Government would communicate with the local authorities, and properly investigate the matter. He was not surprised to hear the hon. and gallant Colonel defending the conduct of magistrates who had violated the law.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  presented a petition from John Byrne, complaining of the conduct of James Cuffe, of Creagh, a magistrate and deputy-lieutenant of the county of Mayo. The petitioner alleged that he was a native of that county, and was following his occupation as a ballad singer, when he was arrested by Mr. Cuffe, and committed to gaol by him and other magistrates. He therefore prayed for an inquiry into the circumstances of his case, and" that the House would adopt such measures as would prevent a similar violation of the rights of the subject.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  begged to remind the House, that the principle on which the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) introduced his Bill on a former occasion was, that marriage ought only to be regarded as a civil contract, and not as a matter of religious ceremony. He certainly thought that the Legislature ought not in matters of this kind to strain the conscience of any man.
 Mr. R. Wallace  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought the clause as it now stood in the Bill ought to remain unaltered.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought that the Bill imposed great hardships on the members of the Established Church. He thanked his noble Friend for making the proposition which he had offered to the House.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  rose for the purpose of requesting the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) not to persist in his motion. He thought that the noble Lord was entitled to the gratitude of the Dissenting body for the course he proposed to pursue.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  rose to ask the hon. Member for Leeds, if his present vote were consistent with his speech on the occasion when the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, introduced his bill to the House, which bill the hon. Member approved of.
 Sir J. Graham  thought, that this was a motion which ought to be supported by some reasons adduced. It ought to be remembered that many important Committees were still sitting, which would prevent many hon. Members from attending in their places during a day-sitting of the House. He himself was engaged on a most important Committee, that on agriculture, which had now sat four months, and had not yet concluded its Report. Other hon. Members were engaged on equally important Committees, such as those on the subject of joint-stock banks, and the question of slave apprenticeship, and it would be unjust to them to proceed with important measures before the House itself during their unavoidable absence.
 Sir John Wrottesley  asserted the right of every man to petition the House, and expressed his surprise, that among the papers with which the hon. and gallant Member was furnished, one of the seditious and trea-
 1009
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman would have been more suitable if this clause had been proposed on the first introduction of the Bill, but it was inconsistent with the Bill as it now stood; for the very same test which his right hon. Friend proposed as a protection to the Church of England, was actually,  totidem verbis,
 Sir Robert Inglis  maintained, that he had not intended to bring any charge of inconsistency against the noble Lord for having introduced into the Bill a proviso contained in the 18th Clause. He only wished to urge the adoption of his right hon. Friend's clause, in order to bring the provisions of the Bill in harmony with each other.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it quite unnecessary, however natural it might be, for the noble Lord to disclaim having had any communication with him on the subject of this clause; still, however, he was desirous of adding his positive declaration to the assurance of the noble Lord, that all which had passed between them had transpired publicly in that House. Having made his proposition, to which at the time no human being made any opposition, the noble Lord, from a perfect conviction of its justice, had voluntarily, and without any communication with him, adopted and introduced it as a clause in the Bill. He repeated, the noble Lord had given no intimation whatever of his intention to introduce that clause, and therefore it had been forced on him by no hostile display on the part of those on that (the Opposition) side of the House. He merely stated, that it would be a great satisfaction to the religious community to come to an arrangement upon this subject, without making any distinction between the members of the Establishment and the great body of the Dissenters; and the arrangement which he wished to see effected with respect to marriage was this— there being no objection whatever on the part of the members of the Church of England to be married according to its ceremonies, he was anxious to leave the members of the Establishment  bona fide 1028 1029 1030
 Sir Robert Peel : It was just the kind of Bill which was at total variance with the course pursued by the hon. Gentleman last year. The objection of the hon. Gentleman to the bill which he then introduced was, that it did not impose on Dissenters the necessity of a religious ceremony. [ "No, no," from Mr. Baines. "Mr. Baines wished to unite his tribute of acknowledgement to the right hon. Baronet at the head of his Majesty's Government, for the friendly spirit towards the Protestant Dissenters in which this measure was conceived, and for
 1035 ✶ ✶ 1036
 Sir William Brabazon  was understood to say, that he had seen the ballads, and that he could find nothing treasonable in them. Without the production of them, the case could not properly be decided.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  thought that the solemnity of marriage would be degraded, and a series of evils be inflicted on the community at large, by the adoption of a Bill of this kind, He had no hesitation in declaring that as his conscientious belief; and upon that ground he felt it to be his duty to protest against the measure, as one of a most mischievous and most dangerous character.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  wished to ask the hon. Member for Leeds, if, in sober earnestness, he conceived that no wrong was done to the members of the Established Church by allowing their sons and daughters to marry by mere civil contract—that was to say, to allow the son of any gentleman in England to marry the housemaid by civil contract?
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  rose to present a petition with which he had been intrusted from the Rev. Mr. Mulholland, a Roman Catholic clergyman in Ireland, who prayed the House to adopt some legislative enactment to cause the canon law of the Church of Rome to be fairly observed in Ireland. He hoped that the House would allow him to lay before it the statement contained in the petition, which he was the more anxious to do with as much accuracy as he could, as he differed in religious opinion from the rev. Gentleman from whom the petition emanated. The petitioner, after stating that a serious injury had been inflicted on him, in consequence of his having availed himself of a court of common law to obtain redress for an attack on his character, proceeded to state, that he was educated in the college of Maynooth, where he was ordained in 1815, that he afterwards went to Rome, where he studied for eight years, and made very creditable progress in his divinity studies, and that he returned to Ireland in 1826, when he was appointed by the Roman Catholic titular Bishop of Armagh to the parish of Termonfechin, in the county of Louth. He stated that that parish was in the nature of what was called, in the Protestant Church, a perpetual curacy, and that he had the same right to it that a clergyman had to his parish. He stated, that in the year 1833 there were disturbances in the county of Louth, and that a brother clergyman accused the petitioner of being an encourager of them. He stated, that his character was injured to such an extent by the accusation, that he felt it necessary to appeal to a court of law for redress. He did not do so, however, without having first applied to the Catholic Primate for that redress. Having waited six months, and having received no answer to his application to that quarter, he brought an action in the Court of Common Pleas, Dublin, where he got a verdict, and recovered damages, certainly to a small amount—namely, one farthing. In consequence of his having appealed to
 1043
 Mr. Williams Wynn  rose to order. He had, yesterday, protested against the useless and most inconvenient practice of entertaining petitions with respect to which the House could neither investigate the alleged grounds of complaint, nor afford any practical relief. In the present instance, the petitioner complained, that he had been deprived of the income of his living, arising, as it appeared, out of funds which had not been provided by the state, over which, therefore, the Legislature could have no control; and that a titular archbishop of Ireland had not duly attended to letters from Rome. It was impossible for the House to receive such a petition; if they did, it would, of course, be necessary that hon. Gentlemen opposite should be allowed to make a counter-statement, although the House could pronounce no opinion whatever on the subject. He hoped his hon. and learned Friend would not lend the sanction of his example to a practice like this, which must be attended with the greatest possible inconvenience to the public business.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  was glad upon all occasions to have the benefit of the right hon. Gentleman's experience respecting the laws and usages of that House; but he must take the liberty of submitting, that the present case differed essentially from that which was under consideration yesterday. The complaint in the latter instance was made to the House, the ordinary tribunals of the country where it should have been adjudicated having been passed over; but in this instance those tribunals could take no cognizance of the matter; and if the House did not interfere, no relief whatever could be administered. [Mr. O'Connell: What is the prayer?] He would read the prayer of the petition, if the House would give him leave. This was the prayer:—"Under
 1044
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. He did not see how the House could recognize the canon law of Rome, or take any means to compel others to conform to it.
 Mr. Scarlett  submitted that the House of Commons was the proper place for taking such a petition into consideration, and if the law did not hold out any remedy for the grievance complained of, it was their duty to adopt the best means of providing a satisfactory one. He could see no objection in point of order to the reception of the petition, and investigating the cause of complaint; even although the individual appealing to the House were a Roman Catholic priest.
 The Speaker : It appears to me quite evident that the petition which has been brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman, has reference to a matter upon which this House can afford no redress to the party who complains of having been aggrieved; and if the House should think fit to sanction its reception, I cannot have any hesitation in declaring that the House will, in so doing, introduce a most inconvenient practice.
 Colonel Perceval  did not presume in any way to question the authority of the Chair, but a petition of a much less important character, and not at all within the jurisdiction of the House, having been received last night, he did wish to press upon the hon. Members opposite the necessity of abstaining from making that the arena for uttering calumnies against others who could never, perhaps, afterwards disabuse the public mind of the unfounded charges which had been circulated against them. He could not but express himself
 1045
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  would not say one word more on the subject, if in the opinion of the House he was out of order; but if he were not actually transgressing the rules and regulations of the House, he hoped they would allow him, as an act of favour and indulgence, to state briefly the circumstances of this gentleman's complaint. It should be recollected that there was something very extraordinary in the features of the case. He could have no personal or party motive in view; his religious opinions were altogether different from those entertained by the petitioner; and the fact was, although it might appear singular to some unacquainted with the state of matters in Ireland, the petitioner had applied to two hon. and learned Gentlemen, both Members of that House, to present the petition, but was told by one that he would be denounced if he dared to do so. and was recommended by the other implicitly to submit without remonstrance to his ecclesiastical superiors, for the House could afford him no relief whatever. He spoke with great deference, but the petition was most respectfully worded: in his opinion it was quite competent for the House to entertain it.
 The Speaker : I have merely to offer this suggestion to the consideration of all hon. Members. I have always understood that when any hon. Member presented a petition to the House, he first made himself responsible to the House that it contained no improper language, or such as ought not to be addressed to the House of Commons; and secondly, that he was supposed to exercise a becoming discretion as to the possibility or propriety of Parliament granting any relief in the matter. I am sure I need not indicate to the House the great inconvenience which must result from hon. Members pursuing a contrary practice, both in reference to the dignity of the proceedings of the House, and the progress of public business.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  had carefully perused the petition, and he could confidently state that, from the beginning to the end of it, there occurred no improper expression whatever towards that House. It was throughout most respectful in its
 1046
 The Speaker : Order! Order! I can have no personal feeling in this matter; and having already stated what I conceive to be the general rule of the House, and which public convenience requires should be closely adhered to, I must leave the hon. and learned Gentleman to the exercise of his own discretion, as to the propriety of proceeding further in this matter.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, he had merely stated the whole material facts of the case. The petitioner complained that he had been deprived of all means of subsistence by his spiritual superiors, for no other offence than that he had brought an action in the Court of Common Pleas in Ireland, to vindicate his character from certain slanders which had been propagated against him. He had applied again and again to his ecclesiastical superiors for redress, but without any chance of obtaining it; and if the House did not interpose he must be left pennyless. Under these circumstances he should move that the petition be brought up.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  contended hat the House could take no cognizance of the matter. The Church of Rome must be considered in Ireland as a voluntary association, and the State had no control whatever over the funds attached to its livings. No relief, therefore, could be administered in such a case. If the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church had been provided for by the State, the House might have had some jurisdiction; but that not being the case, it was impossible for the House to entertain the petition.
 The Attorney-General  was disposed to receive the petition, because, however absurd it might be, it prayed that the law should be altered, and in that view it certainly came within the jurisdiction of the House. He had no doubt if a Bill were
 1047
 Mr. Henry Gratlan  denied that any hon. Member could be denounced in Ireland for discharging his duties in that House. With respect to the merits of this petition, he assured hon. Members opposite, that a decided case had been made out against this unfortunate, but ill-advised gentleman.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, he had received a statement from the rev. Dr. Crolly, in which he denied all the allegations of the petition.
 Mr. Scarlett  hoped, that the Roman Catholic priesthood would not for ever remain alien to the law. It was impossible the Roman Catholic religion should continue to be propagated without the pale of the law. A majority of those who professed it felt, he believed, well affected to the state; a very large body of the priests, as he was informed, who refused to countenance agitation, were persecuted and oppressed, as the petitioner in the present instance had undoubtedly been, If the House on inquiry should find such to be the case, it would become the duty of the Legislature to consider what means could be adopted best calculated to cure the evil.
 Mr. O'Connell  had no wish to conceal from the House that he had recommended Dr. Mulholland to submit to his spiritual superiors, because in fact, no relief could otherwise be afforded him. The petition was an absurdity on the face of it; and an opportunity of presenting it was only required, in order that statements might
 1048
 Mr. Bellew  maintained that the charges in the petition were without foundation, and read an extract from the printed resolutions passed at a meeting of the Roman Catholic clergy of the diocese, complimenting Dr. Kelly for having dismissed the petitioner. From the discussion which had taken place elsewhere upon this subject, the Roman Catholic clergy had more reason than ever to congratulate themselves that they had no connexion whatever with the Sate; otherwise they would see their independence completely destroyed. He trusted that they would for ever remain separated from the State.
 Sir George Clerk  considered that the present Bill would only have the effect of inducing persons to spend more money in the purchase of spirits than at the time of using them they were able to pay for. The supporters of this Bill had, in his opinion, made out no case for the alteration. He moved as an amendment, that the Bill be committed that day six months.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not consider that an alteration as to the consumption of spirits upon the premises, and giving a liberty upon that subject, was at all an improvement in the existing law. The question was, whether, by sanctioning this Bill, they would afford a temptation to the poor man to ruin his family?
 Mr. Wahley  stated, that no application had been made to him from a single publican to support this Bill. If they had the means of preventing the use of spirituous liquors, they certainly should not relax those means, particularly when they saw the pernicious consequences of the use of those liquors. As to liquors not being drunk upon the premises, as proposed by his hon. Friend, it was, in his opinion, anything but an improvement; as, instead of the man consuming the stuff himself, he would infuse the poison amongst the families of cottagers.
 Colonel Thompson  desired to state, as a contrast to the experience of the Member for Finsbury, that he had presented a petition, numerously signed, from publicans, praying for the removal of the present law. He should be glad to accede to the wishes of Gentlemen opposite, if he thought they intended there should be an equality
 1052
 Mr. Hawes  rose to confirm the statement of his hon. Colleague. It was their intention, whenever the question of Church-rate was before the House, to bring this special case under its consideration.
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt  said, the Act gave only the power of appeal to the Quarter Sessions.
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt  said, he had two petitions to present from St. Mary's, Newington, complaining of Church-rates. It appeared from the statement of the petitioners, that sixteen years ago an Act was passed for building two new churches in that parish, and they com-
 1041 l. l. l. l., l. l. l 
 Mr. Wigney  said, that he thought that in comparison with the salaries provided for some of the officers of the House, and which he did not consider too much, the allowance of one individual who had very arduous duties to perform was exceedingly disproportionate. He alluded to the individual who attended in the Members' lower waiting-room. At present the income of that individual amounted to upwards of 600 l, l. l. l.
 Mr. Wigney  said, that in the amendment he had proposed he had no intention to cast any imputation on the Committee. If the sense of the House was against him he would not press his motion.
 Mr. Buckingham  felt great pleasure in seconding that motion. If they legislated at all, let them do this at least, to make it more difficult for men to get intoxicated, and not to increase the facilities for doing so.
 The Lord Advocate  was in favour of the Bill going into Committee, in order that it might then receive such alterations as would be considered desirable. He was most willing to admit the inefficacy of the law on this subject, both in this country and in Scotland.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that many similar local Bills had been passed, of which the same complaint was now to be made. Ten times the amount of money contemplated by such Acts had been afterwards levied on the parishes, and they had no remedy but that most inefficient one—of an appeal to the Quarter Sessions.
 Mr. Brotherton  supported the amendment. The hon. Member for Hull had himself shown, that education could not prevent drunkenness. He thought the House should not remove any of the restraints upon it. The law, perhaps, could not make men sober, nor honest either,
 1053
 Mr. Hume  said, the resolutions of the Select Committee were in his opinion the best rule for the guidance of the House. It lay, however, with the House to adopt or depart from them, and to say, whether one rule should be laid down for the remuneration of the housekeeper and another for the messengers.
 Mr. Hume  thought it was vain for men to suppose that they could keep persons sober by means of legislation.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was difficult for the Committee to satisfy all parties. However, if the hon. Member had attended to the proceedings of the Committee he would find that this individual had no reason to complain. He had been examined before the Committee of 1833, and he stated, that he was not on the establishment, but that he had been put into his situation by Mrs. Rawlinson, with the permission of Mr. Seymour. That his whole receipts did not exceed above 425 l. l. l. 1050 l.
 Mr. Hume  moved Resolutions for carrying into effect the recommendations of the Committee,, whose anxious desire had been to do all in their power to render justice to every individual. The following Resolutions were then agreed to: —
 "That this House agree with the recommendations of the Select Committee, that the annual sum of 911 l. 1049 "That the annual sum of 874 l. "That the annual salary of each of the door-keepers, after Mr. Pratt and Mr. Williams shall retire, be 400 l., "That the recommendation of the Committee as to the future establishment of the Members' waiting-room, be approved,"
 Mr. Pease  regarded this as a Bill to enable fraudulent publicans to take advantage of intoxicated customers, to the utter ruin of the families of the latter.
 Mr. Potter  observed, that whenever the people attempted to amuse themselves, they were interfered with, and their only resource, therefore, was going to the gin shop.
 Mr. Estcourt  moved, "That the annual sum of 778 l. l.
 Mr. Gillon  was disposed to adopt an amendment, which would exempt from the operation of the Bill, all liquors drunk upon the premises.
 Mr. Gillon  in moving that the Speaker do leave the Chair, and the House go into Committee upon the Sale of Spirituous Liquors' Bill, stated it to be his wish, that the law should be carried into operation as to spirits sold on the premises.
 Sir James Graham  thought it right to abide by the resolutions of the Committee, and suggested that the salaries, when fixed should commence on the 1st of January.
 Sir Robert Bateson  did not know what company the hon. Member for Hull kept, but in the company he kept, he never saw any instances of the intoxication spoken of by that hon. Member.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  apprehended that, if the parish had anything to complain of, it could obtain redress by an application to the King's Bench,
 Mr. Charles  Wood observed, that as the Admiralty had in no way offended, they could not possibly have been found guilty.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that in an affidavit which the attorney had sworn, he stated, "that in the belief of this deponent the petitioner had not been guilty of the offences which had been laid to his
 1066
 Mr. O'Connell : Sir, I have no apology to offer, and I believe the House will admit that I stand in need of no apology for presenting myself to its notice on this subject. I confess that my first impressions of what has taken place this evening were of a nature that I would rather have suppressed them than given them utterance. I do not think that it ever fell to my lot to hear a more unstatesmanlike speech from the right hon. Baronet than that which he has just uttered. That upon an important question like this the right hon. Baronet should stand up to advocate delay, under the mere formal pretence of having the Lords' reasons and amendments printed, was in itself quite astonishing, and showed the weakness of his position and of his arguments. But the right hon. Baronet immediately answered himself on this very point, by detailing the unhappy consequences which would result from prolonging this discussion. He answered himself admirably, and his prudence in avoiding to press for another division upon this question was equally to be admired. The right hon. Baronet recollected that the former division of forty-one had lately swollen into
 1094 1095 1096 1097 1098
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had commenced the speech which he had addressed to the House by telling them that he owed no apology for so doing. After that speech of the learned Gentleman no English Member owed an apology to the House for following his example: after that speech, no declaration of attachment to the Constitution—no disclaimer of participation in doctrines now openly avowed, and tending to subvert it, could be looked upon as uncalled for. He was prepared for strong and exciting language on the part of the learned Gentleman, but he owned that he was not prepared for any declaration of intention, so plain and undisguised as this—he knew that it had served the purposes of certain persons out of that House to calumniate and decry the other House of Parliament, but he owned he had not expected that they would have been gravely told by Gentlemen sitting there, that an act of usurpation was to be committed on the composition or on the functions of the House of Peers. He believed, that those who were parties to this project were labouring under the strangest misapprehension—he believed the great body of the people of this country were, to say the least of it, as anxious to preserve unimpaired, the independence and the privileges of the House of Peers, as they were to ensure to that House the full and un-
 1099 1100 1101 1102
 Dr. Lushington  wished to ask his noble Friend a question with reference to Texas. He was desirous of knowing whether any information had been received of the importation of slaves from Texas into the United States. Though he believed there was no treaty between this country and the United States which could compel them to put an end to such a system, yet they were bound not to sanction a continuance of such a practice.
 Mr. Lahouchere  said, it was undoubtedly true that some years ago he had received a communication informing him that the Assembly of Lower Canada had done him the honour to appoint him their agent; but it was also true that he had written in answer, that although he should always be happy to be of any service to the colony, he must decline being their appointed agent. In making that statement, how-
 1116
 The Chancellor of the Exchequor  thought that the system relative to private Bills should be altered, but he did not think that the course proposed by his hon. Friend would answer: on the coutrary, if carried out, it would interrupt the whole proceedings of Parliament.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  said, that although he was as desirous as any one to ged rid of bribery, he could not consent to pass such a resolution in so thin a House, and at such an hour of the night.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that though the instances adduced were very strong, and almost sufficient to avert the judgment of the House, still he thought that the custom of having paid agents in the House of Commons, though shown to be long continued and extensively practised, was one better at once broken through than any longer observed. The House had always a jealousy of its Members being employed to do any business within it, and it could not be expected that in the present instance it would wave that well grounded feeling. If it did, of what use were the various statutes which still existed in full force against hon. Members receiving payment for their services from any interested parties? The principle at issue was a very important one. If it were admitted by the House any foreign potentate or Power, even though it was at war with England, might have its paid agent in the House, who would thus be enabled to transact its business with impunity, and with important advantage; and also to justify the position in which he was placed by a reference to it. In his opinion, no colony which had a Legislature of its own should be suffered to have a paid agent in Parliament. The King's Ministers were the true and proper representatives of the interests of such a colony. He should, therefore, willingly support the motion.
 Lord J. Russell  moved, that they should be read, which was done.
 Lord John Russell  said, I rise, Sir, to address the House upon the subject of the amended Irish Corporation Bill, as returned from the House of Lords, and I think that those who agree with us on the original formation of that Bill will agree with me in thinking that after hearing the reasons given by the Lords, and what the amendments are upon which they insist it is not possible for us to hope to come to a satisfactory settlement of this question. Among the minor amendments there is one of no slight importance—namely, that by which the whole of the corporate property is transferred to the Commissioners under 9 Geo. 4th., where such subsist. I cannot omit to note that this is an amendment of some importance: but, Sir, the Lords have stated, and in their reasons have very strongly supported
 1068 1069 1070 "The Lords, will, however, still entertain the hope, that the two Houses of Parliament, maintaining the good understanding which happily subsists between them, and zealously co-operating in the discharge of their common duty to the country, may, at no distant period, devise such measures of reform in the administration of local affairs, as may give real contentment by effecting real improvement, and promote prosperity by promoting social and religious peace in the cities and towns of Ireland." 1071 1072 hisce auribus, ✶ "hisce auribus;" ✶ 1073 1074 1075 1076 1077
 Lord John Russell  had a preliminary objection to the form of the resolution. As to the general question discussed by the hon. Member who moved it, with respect to paid agents for the colonies sitting in this House, he admitted that there were inconveniences attending the practice, though it had the authority of such men as Mr. Burke, Mr. Huskisson, and Sir James Mackintosh. Again, as a general proposition, he was not disposed to agree to it, on a resolution. If any disqualification were proposed which had not been created by the existing law, it should be by some new law, it should be by a Bill and not by a resolution. It was competent to the hon. Member to introduce a Bill for the purpose; and on this ground he opposed the Resolution. Besides, the Resolution was so worded, that he did not wonder that the hon. and learned
 1117
 Colonel Perceval  observed, that although he would vote for the resolution if it were brought forward at a proper time of the evening, he should now, if the hon. Member for Middlesex persevered, support the motion of his hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Lincoln, if it were to keep them there until four o'clock to-morrow.
 Mr. C. Buller  moved that the standing orders relating to Bills for the Establishment of Small Debts Courts be repealed, and that all such Bills be henceforth treated as public Bills.
 Colonel Sibthorp  did not exactly know what Head-money was, but he objected to a motion of such importance at that late hour, and he should therefore move the adjournment of the House, unless the hon. Gentleman withdrew his motion.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that, although the Admiralty had the power of erasing from the Navy Lists the name of any office, whose conduct did not become the character of an officer and a gentleman, he did not think the case of Sir John Barrow would come within that rule.
 Mr. Charles Wood  was sorry to be obliged to trouble the House upon a subject with which he believed every hon. Member was already fully acquainted. The only circumstance which had occurred since the case of Mr. Perrott had been last before the House was the trial and conviction that had taken place. He (Mr. C. Wood), although the trial had been relied upon by the hon. Member for Birmingham, was glad that it had taken place, as every one of the allegations made against the petitioner had been proved. He had been convicted of a fraud; and it had also been shown that he had obtained his pension by gross fraud, he having stated he had lost his arm while exercising great guns in the Channel. It was true the fraud had not been found out for some time; but, so far from acting harshly, the Admiralty had acted most humanely, as they allowed him to retain a pension to which it was clear he had no right. The petitioner had charged Sir Thomas Hardy with first giving him a good character and then refusing the prayer of the petition. Now the fact was, that the character was given by Captain Hardy previous to 1808. Between 1808 and 1809 Mr. Perrott's conduct was so bad that his Captain had determined to bring him to a Court-Martial, but he obtained his discharge in consequence of losing his arm, so that that loss had first saved him from a Court-Martial, and then had got him a pension to which he was not entitled. The petition mentioned many wounds received, it was said, by the petitioner, and battles at which the petitioner said he had been. One date only was, however, mentioned; and it appeared from the records of the Admiralty that he could not have then been at sea at all. The hon. Gentleman, therefore, said that he had sufficient grounds for doubting the whole of the statement put forward by the petitioner.
 Mr. Harvey  could not help congratulating the hon. and learned Member for Bath upon his being able to support his case with reference to those of Governors and Directors—between whose positions and his he was free to say there was a strong analogy. He must, however, observe that it would give him much satisfaction to hear from the father of Parliamentary law, who took so prominent a
 1114 l. l. 1115
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped the hon. Member would postpone the motion for the present and trusted that the Government would take up the subject, and introduce some general measure.
 The Speaker  said, that the question before the House was, that the petition do he on the table. The hon. and gallant Officer had no right to go into the merits of the case on that question; but. he might, if he thought fit, bring forward a motion on the subject. The practice of raising discussions on petitions was highly inconvenient.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  was anxious to know from the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether he had received any communication relative to the establishment of Slavery and the Slave-trade in Texas.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the notification to which the hon. Gentleman alluded was, he believed, the result of the resolution abolishing fees on admission to the gallery
 1067
 Mr. Roebuck : I confess, Sir, I am not surprised at the course which the Lords have taken upon this Bill. To me it appears the natural consequence of the present state of things. I all along expected that the Lords would throw out this Bill, because they have opposed themselves to each successive measure of reform as it has passed this House during a long period; and, reasoning from the experience of the past, and from the nature of the body itself, I all along expected that the Lords would follow their natural disposition, and throw out this Bill; and I say, that the House of Lords, in throwing out this Bill, have not acted against their own interests; I believe they have acted wisely, as a body of men, not interested in the good government either of England or of Ireland, but as a body whose interest it is, to gain the largest possible plunder which they can from the people of this country. [ "Oh, Oh." "Oh, Oh" 1103 1104 Loud cries of "Order," "Chair."
 Mr. Roebuck : I am glad, Sir, you have called my attention to the orders of the House; it is not my intention to apply language to others which I would not wish to have applied to myself. I have no wish, Sir, to speak of individuals. I am speaking of the system which unfortunately does exist; and in characterising the conduct of the Lords in past periods some allusions may possibly apply to their present conduct; but I am speaking of the House of Lords historically; I am not I think out of order in that. I am not speaking of the House of Lords as at present existing, but of that House as a body. And, Sir, of that body I am prepared to say, (not believing that in this they are peculiar, but that any body of men placed in the same position would act in the same way, of that body I am prepared to say, that they have ever followed out their own private personal interest, that they have always endeavoured to secure for themselves power over the people because it was their interest. In the stoppage of this Bill, there is only one thought that grieves me. And that is lest the real friends of the Irish people should be unable to curb that already too long oppressed nation; to prevent any-violent outbreak upon their part—to keep them from demanding that which I believe would be but a fruitful source of misfortune to them, the Repeal of the Union. At the same time, I am ready to acknowledge to my hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, that if he cannot get justice for Ireland from England, she would have a right to try whether she can obtain it for herself. I should look upon the Repeal of the Union, however, as the greatest evil that ever befel this community, or the people of Ireland themselves. To me it does seem that two nations, united as I believe them to be in feeling, united in language, united almost by blood—two nations so closely connected, and so near to each other, are best placed, for their own interests under one Government. But if it so happens that the larger portion of this empire shall withhold good government from the smaller portion, the latter may acquire a right to vindicate to herself that good
 1105
 Mr. Roebuck  commenced by observing, that the resolution which the hon. Baronet had evidently taken much time to word, so that it might affect his (Mr. Roebuck's) case alone, unfortunately struck at many of his own friends. It was in consequence of the evidence given by some witnesses before the Committee on Canadian Affairs, which sat in 1827-28, that it was determined by the House of Assembly of that colony to retain an agent in Great Britain. For that office he had the good fortune to be selected; and he now heard it, for the first time, asserted, that the duties it imposed were incompatible with the situation he held as a Member of that House. The hon. Baronet had referred to the case of Mr. Burke, in 177O, as supporting his resolution, but it singularly enough happened, that it was upon the authority of that very case he founded his right to unite the duties of a colonial agent with those of a Member of Parliament. The only difference between Mr. Burke's case and his case was in the circumstance of the one being the agent for the colonies of New York (he was speaking of the year 1770, when New York was a British colony), and the other of the House of Assembly of Lower Canada. In the case of Mr. Huskisson he had another, and in some respects a stronger, authority in his favour. It was an undoubted fact, that the decision of Election Committees determined the law of Parliament, as to who were or who were not disqualified to sit in that House as Members; Mr. Huskisson, before his election, acted as the agent for the Island of Ceylon, and upon his being returned to Parliament he was petitioned against on the ground,
 1112 1113
  Mr. Hume  could not concur in the opinion of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. He thought that every colony ought to have an accredited agent in Parliament.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion. He hoped that the motion of his hon. Friend would induce the Attorney or Solicitor -General to bring in a general Bill on the subject.
 Mr. Hume  thought the noble Lord had stated very fairly his views on the present occasion, but he must say, that they were much more moderate than those which he entertained. He considered that the conduct of the other House of Parliament, with all due deference to the discretion they had exercised, did little honour to their judgment, as regarded the consideration they ought to give to the wishes of the people. They had in this instance the united voice of Ireland, demanding justice from this House. The question for the consideration of the House of Lords was, simply, whether there should be inefficient or good Government in Ireland. If the Lords continued to oppose themselves as they had done to good Government, the day would come when the people would consider the propriety of sweeping them away. Could it be supposed that the House of Lords was an institution constituted for the Lords themselves. No, they had a higher object to accomplish. They were appointed as one branch of the Government. So were the royal boroughs appointed for municipal government, yet they had swept away the royal boroughs, because they were supported by men who consulted only their own interests. Was there any difference between the rotten boroughs in England and Scotland, and the House of Lords? They were asked, would they not allow the Lords to do as they liked? He would say no. He repeated it might become a question, whether this
 1078 1079 1080
 Mr. Hume  witnessed the conduct of the counsel in the case, and of Sir John Barrow, who, in justification of the Admiralty, brought forward every document he could; but still the Jury, after a most patient investigation, returned a verdict against them, by giving Mr. Perrott damages. It was hard that an officer who had fought in thirteen battles should be persecuted as this individual had been.
 Mr. Hume  denied that the statements of the petitioner had been disproved. He was present during the whole of the trial, and so far from convicting Mr. Perrott, they gave him damages, and of course found the Admiralty guilty.
 Mr. Hume  did not anticipate any opposition to his motion, and should therefore at once propose the following resolution:—That any payment or premium, or agreement to pay any sums of money as Head-money to electors at an election for members to serve in Parliament, whether made by a candidate, or by any one acting on his behalf, is a gross violation of the freedom of election, of the order of this House, and of the rights and liberties of the Commons of the United Kingdom.
 Mr. Hume  suggested to the hon. Member to withdraw the motion, as it merged in the question of the formation of private Committees, which must soon be brought before the House.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that as they were all agreed that bribery should be abolished, there could be no well-founded objection, if the hon. Members opposite were sincere, to his motion.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that as there seemed to be so decided a determination not to allow him to proceed with his motion, he would withdraw his resolution then, and bring it forward on a future occasion, when he hoped it would be agreed to.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the introduction of the words "at or after the election" would meet the objection stated by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  proposed a resolution, that the system which permits Members of the House of Commons to vote in Committees on private Bills, without having heard the whole of the evidence adduced, is inconsistent with the first principles of justice, and ought to be altered.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  said, the hon. Member who spoke before the hon. Member for Bath, delivered, in my opinion, a most amusing speech; he gave the House a dissertation upon law—he talked of Irish rights, and giving a reason for denying them, and said, "Why, Englishmen have
 1106 1107
 Mr. T.
 1064  rose, pursuant to notice, to present a petition from Mr. Henry Dundas Perrott, late a Lieutenant in the Royal Navy, who complained that he had been arbitrarily and unjustly deprived by the Admiralty of the pension granted to him for his services, besides having been unjustly kept from being restored to his rank in the navy, from which he had been dismissed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  appeared at the Bar, and being called upon by the Speaker, stated, that the managers of the conference on the part of that House had met the Duke of Wellington and others, managers of the conference on the part of the Lords, and were acquainted by their Lordships that they had taken into consideration the reasons of the Commons for disagreeing with the amendments by the Lords on the Bill for Municipal Reform in Ireland; for omitting some of those amendments, retaining others, and making amendments upon other of the amendments of the Lords: that their Lordships stated that the House of Lords insisted upon the retention of some of their amendments and waived others: rejected some of the amendments of the Commons and admitted others: for reasons assigned by the managers of the conference on the part of their Lordships to the managers of the conference on the part of the House of Commons, which reasons the hon. Gentleman brought up.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was very doubtful whether the hon. Member's motion would have the desired effect; and he thought that, though certain modifications might be advantageously made in the standing orders, still that the case which was sought to be remedied would be no better by their repeal.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I entreat of hon. Members to consider whether a much better reply than any I could
 1087 1088 1089 1090 Robert Peel: 1091 1092 1093
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was surprised that there could be the slightest objection to such a simple proposition. He could not have anticipated that any hon. Gentleman could hesitate as to the objectionable effect of paying Head-money. Was there any one in that House who could get up and justify the payment of Head-money? If there was not, why should not the House at once sanction the motion? If there
 1121
 Mr. Wakley  suggested, that the hon. Member might withdraw his motion for the purpose of giving an opportunity for the introduction of a general measure. As it related to the administration of justice it should be brought forward in an entire form, and in a general way.
 Mr. Ewart  begged to call the attention of the House to a paper which he had seen posted up in the lobby of the House, stating that no stranger could in future be admitted to the gallery without a Member's order. For his part he should rather see the admission of strangers more extended than it was, and therefore he should, on a future day, take an opportunity of submitting a motion on the subject.
 Admiral Adam  begged to say that since the trial the attorney of the petitioner had waited on Sir John Barrow, and apologised to him for having occasioned him so much trouble for a purpose so unworthy.
 Admiral Adam  observed, that whenever the matter was brought forward he should be perfectly prepared to meet it.
 Sir Edward Codrington  knew how difficult it was to find an opportunity to bring a motion on; but still if the hon. Member for Birmingham did not submit a motion on the subject he certainly would.
 Sir Edward Codrington  said that here was assertion against assertion. He did
 1065
 Sir Edward Codrington  wished to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Admiralty. He perceived that Sir John Barrow, after a certain number of years' service, was to receive a retiring pension of 1,000 l.
 Sir Edward Codrington  wished to know from the hon. Gentleman whether Sir John Barrow was in point of fact to have a vested right in his pension of 1,000 l.
 Sir John Hanmer  was surprised at the manner in which the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had thought proper to view the motion he was about to submit; for, he would venture to say, that there can be no subject more worthy of deliberation,
 1108 1109 1110 lex scripta 1111
 Sir John Hanmer  had no object in bringing forward the Resolution, but to secure the character which the House should maintain for dignity and independence. The House, therefore, might dispose of the Resolution as it pleased he had done his duty in submitting the Resolution, and he should not be consulting his own feeling, if he were to withdraw it. He was sorry to trespass on the time of hon. Members, but he must take the sense of the House on the Resolution.
 Sir Robert Peel : I did not rise immediately after the noble Lord opposite concluded his speech, because I perceived, from the manner of the hon. Member for Middlesex, that he was desirous of addressing the House, and I wished to ascertain to what extent the noble Lord had been a fair representative and expounder of his opinion. I must say, I did not expect on this day, that we should have been called on to take into consideration the amendments of the House of Lords; still less did I expect that we should be called on without notice, and on the instant, to vote for the rejection of those amendments. I should have thought it would have been more consistent with usage, and the importance of the subject, that a motion should have been made for printing the amendments; and that on a subsequent day, a sufficient interval being permitted to weigh the nature of them, we should be called on to pronounce our opinion. Nevertheless, although I feel it necessary to express my dissent from the proposition of the noble Lord, — although I disapprove of postponing for three months the consideration of this question,—yet, as it has been understood that no division would take place,—I will not call upon the House to divide, lest an erroneous conclusion should be drawn from the numbers which would appear on either side. My conviction, however, of the propriety of delay in this matter, is confirmed by what has fallen from the noble Lord. In the first place, the noble Lord himself attaches great importance to some of the declarations contained in the reasons of the House of Lords, and he has said, there were some expressions of the House of Lords which made him hope for an amicable settlement of this question at a future period. If that be the noble Lord's view—it would be only decorous to afford us every opportunity for considering the reasons of the
 1081 bonâ fide 1082 1083 1084 1085 1086 Laughter
 Mr. William Wynn  concurred in what had fallen from his right hon. Friend. If a general Act could not be passed on the subject it was inexpedient to repeal the standing order.
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that no such information had been received by Government.
 Viscount Palmerston  observed, that the inhabitants of Texas were in a state of revolt against the Mexican Government, and the result of that revolt was not as yet decided. If the Mexican Government should succeed, they would, of course, enforce their laws on the inhabitants; but if the contest should have another result, and that there should be a separation of Texas from the Mexican Government, and their establishment as an independent power ensued, in such case, the laws of Mexico would not be applied. It was hardly necessary for him to state, that no communication could, under the present circumstances, take place between Texas and the British Government.
 Lord Sandon  acknowledged the extreme inconvenience of the present system, and
 1120
 Viscount Sandon  protested against a vote for the adjournment being assumed to be a vote in favour of bribery. The question really was, whether so important a matter ought to be brought on at so late an hour. The wording of the resolution, too, was very loose, and might be held to express much more than was apparently intended. The resolution was nothing more than a declaration of the law upon the subject; and, therefore, as the law as it stood accomplished all that the hon. Member for Middlesex's proposition intended, it would be a mere waste of time to place it on the books of the House.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that although there could be no doubt whatever that any money-payment connected with a vote was bribery, there might be still arrangements which this resolution would not touch; for instance, where the money was not to be paid for a year after the election.
 Colonel Perceval  interposed, and requested the noble Lord to state whether the reports were true that accounts of outrages in Ireland were sent by the inspectors under the superscription of "private and confidential," and whether returns were made of a more flattering aspect than was warranted by the real facts of the case. If the return made were  bona fide,
 Colonel Perceval : No directions to have accounts of outrages suppressed?
 Lord Morpeth : Most certainly not.
 Colonel Perceval : I am glad to hear it.
 Viscount Morpeth  moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Church and Tithes Bill (Ireland). On the question that the Speaker leave the Chair.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  rose to move the total extinction of tithes in Ireland, as prayed for by petitions he had just now presented, as well as upon many former occasions, and he hoped the House would indulge him with their attention while he supported his position with a few plain statements and facts. The only claim he could put forward for such indulgence was, that he brought forward his motion from an honest conviction that he was only performing his duty to his constituents. The principle he advocated was not whether the Catholics of Ireland should be relieved from a fractional portion of the tithe assessment, but whether they should still continue to pay that odious impost which stamped them with the name of slaves in the land of their birth. But there was a still higher question—it was the religious (and consequently the civil) liberty of all Protestant as well as Catholic non-conformists in the British empire. It was the
 1136 1137 d. 1138 d. d. d. 1139 "That it is expedient that tithes and all compositions for tithes in Ireland should cease and be for ever extinguished, compensation being first made for all existing interests, whether lay or ecclesiastical; and that it is also expedient that measures should be adopted to render the revenue of the Church lands more productive and more available for the support of the working clergy of the Establishment, and that all persons not in communion with the Established Church of Ireland should be relieved from all assessment for its support." l. 1140 l. l. l. l. 
 
 Gross amount of income (as assumed) £669,247 
 Deduct the perpetual reserved rent, equal to the present income of the see lands, from rents and fines 151,157 
 Net amount to be purchased 518,140 
 Value of this at five per cent., or 20 years' purchase 10,362,400 
 Deduct, agreeably to the act, four per cent., or 1–25 414,496 
 Value of the fee £9,947,904 
 From the above sum the value of the tenants' interests is to be deducted. That interest, except in some special cases, cannot exceed a term of 21 years—although in many cases it may be less; but assuming the whole at that term, the value of the above profitable interest, calculated as an annuity of twenty-one years, would be worth (according to the common tables of calculation) 1,282,115 l. 6,612,894 
 Balance to be derived from the sale of the fee £3,305,010 
 
 Rents per annum £151,127 
 Capital produced by sale of fee, 3,305,010 l.; 132,200 
 283,327 1141 
 
 To this is to be added the income arising from the rents of glebe lands as per returns 86,572 
 Ditto from dignitary and chapter lands 30,124 
 Total annual revenue £400,023 
 The charges on this would be as follows:— 
 Four archbishops at 2,000 l l. 16,000 
 Estimated annual expenses of vestry assessments 59,112 
 75,412 
 Balance applicable to the stipends of the parochial clergy £324,611 
 
 In the above calculations the value of the fee of the glebe lands and chapter lands (which it is proposed shall be purchased by the tenants) is not included. The rent now paid is— 
 Glebe lands £86,572 
 Chapter lands 30,121 
 £116,696 
 If we take the difference between the value of a twenty-one years' interest, and the fee at seven years' purchase, this would amount to £816,872 
 It appears by return No. 46l, the Commissioners are entitled to an annual sum of 7,500 l. 75,000 l. "That it is expedient that the monies necessary for the aforesaid compensation should be advanced out of the public revenue, and afterwards repaid by instalments from the proceeds of a tax to be imposed on the profit rents; such tax to cease and determine as soon as the said debt shall be discharged." 1142 
 
 Lay tithes, as per returns, amount to about 
 £100,000 yearly 
 Deduct three-tenths, 30,000 
 £70,000 
 Compensation on this sum, at sixteen years' purchase, would amount to £112,000 
 If the reductions which would take place on the revenues of incumbents should amount to 250,000 l, 2,500,000 
 £2,612,000 l. l. 1143 regium donum, 1144 regium donum
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that after the full discussion and decided opinion which the House had given on this subject, he hoped the hon. Member would not think him chargeable with disrespect to him if he declined entering into any reply to his speech, and called upon the House to proceed to the practical matter in hand.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  rose to second the motion, and begged to make one preliminary observation. He did not second the motion for the purpose of embarrassing his Majesty's Government, but for the purpose of fulfilling a duty to his constituents, and redeeming the pledges he had given them. He did so for this purpose, that if hereafter he thought it necessary to agitate this question amongst those persons who had sent him to the House, it might not be stated that he expressed sentiments out of doors which he had not the manliness to maintain and justify within the walls of this House. In supporting the propositions of his hon. Friend, the Member for Dundalk, it might be stated that he was embarking on a wild and visionary scheme, but such arguments had been offered in the infancy of every measure affecting the liberties of this country. In days gone by, the advocates of Catholic emancipation had been considered as vainly speculative as he might on the present occasion, and within his own recollection, he could point to the period when as a boy, he read with delight the speeches of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, when within those walls he propounded his schemes for the reform of that House to an inattentive audience, and supported only by a few but faithful friends. In advocating the propositions of his hon. Friend, he begged to state that he did so reservedly. He did not altogether approve of all the points embraced by his hon. Friend's resolutions: but he supported them because they embraced a great principle, the total abolition of tithes in Ireland, or rather the diversion of tithe property to other,
 1145 1146 1147
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  said, that as he had a strong conviction on his mind that the Government did not intend to yield one iota of the principle of appropriation, and as hon. Members on his side of the House were as determined to oppose that principle, he could not conceive what object the noble Lord could effect by going into Committee on this Bill, unless the noble Lord was prepared to say that he had an object in carrying it where there was a majority, in order that it might be rejected where there was an opposing majority. He believed the hon. Member for Dundalk was sincere in the course he was taking, but he denied he had any right to assume that the Presbyterians of the North were by any means unanimous in favour of an extinction of tithes. For his part, he protested as strongly against the Bill of His Majesty's Ministers as the resolutions of the hon. Gentleman, for he did not think it behoved a Protestant Government, by subtracting from the means for maintaining its own Church Establishment, to provide instruction for those from whose doctrine they conscientiously dissented.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that this was a most fruitless discussion. His hon. Friend the Member for Dundalk, had made what they would call in Ireland an "out-of-a-face speech"— no compromise — nothing but eternal justice; yet what the hon. Member moved began with those miserable words, "it is expedient." He first rested his case upon justice, and then turned round and talked of expediency. He (Mr. O'Connell) could not agree with the hon. Member's resolutions for the abolition of tithe. But then they made compensation. Yes; but he would ask where was the good of taking money out of one pocket to put it into another? Persons not connected with the Established Church were to be relieved from all assessment, and instead of which it was to be supported out of the public revenue. Now, this part of the hon. Member's proposition was most contradictory; for did not Roman
 1148
 Dr. Bowring  thought that every proposition of his hon. Friend, the Member for Dundalk, was entitled to the approval of the House of Commons. His eloquent Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, had argued that the expediency of putting an end to the tithe system was a different thing from its justice. He could not perceive the distinction. In legislation justice was expediency, and expediency was justice. The proposition went on to say that tithes ought to be extinguished, but it did not deny that the rights of living proprietors should be respected; on the contrary, it insisted that they should be recognised, and made more available for the purposes of religious instruction. It proposed that the really meritorious, the working clergy, should be more liberally remunerated; but went further, it proclaimed the greater and the higher principle, that no man should be compelled to contribute to the expenses of a religion of which he disapproved. This was the true, the simple application of the Christian principle.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  had already stated that his opinion was, that the fairest way of dealing with the question would be to raise a land-tax, which should fall equally on persons of all persuasions.
 Mr. Grattan  said, he in part agreed and in part differed from the resolutions of his hon. Friend; but he thought the better course for him to take would be to withdraw his resolutions.
 Mr. Finn  said, that he had always maintained that after the lives of the present incumbents the Protestant Establishment ought to cease to exist.
 Mr. Shaw  believed he should better consult the feeling of the House, as well as abide by the understanding which existed between both sides on the subject, by not dwelling at any length upon the observations which had been made by hon. Gentlemen opposite in that stage of the measure. With regard to the proposition of the hon. Member for Dundalk to abolish tithes and tithe compositions altogether, it might be more honest and consistent than the plan of the Government —but still, as it was not even entertained by them at present, it would be a waste of time seriously to argue it—then as to the various allegations which had been made against individual clergymen, he had no doubt, if he had an opportunity of inquiring into the facts of these cases, he could satisfactorily answer or explain them—but after all, what had it to do with the merits of the present question, whether this or that particular curate was well treated or otherwise by his rector? He (Mr. Shaw) was as anxious as any one could be for the better provision of what were called the working clergy—to put an end to non-residence, unions, pluralities, and every defect which might exist in the church, but that was not the object of the present Bill. He could, too, disprove the calculations as to numbers and property of the church, which had been adduced as arguments by gentlemen on the other side, but he felt he should be departing from the agreement to which the House had bound itself, and he would, therefore, confine himself to matters of detail in the Committee.
 Mr. Shaw  begged the attention of the Committee to one of the most unjust provisions that he believed had ever been attempted in an Act of Parliament—he meant, that by which all arrears due to the Irish tithe-owners—except those payable by the landlords—were by this clause to be swept away without compensation or consideration. In the various bills that had been introduced on the subject, such a gross and glaring injustice had never before been contemplated. He defied the noble Lord to produce one precedent in the whole statute-book of such a total disregard to the rights of property. The case was so monstrous, on the face of it, that argument was impossible and unnecessary. Let the noble Lord grant the balance of the million yet remaining in hands for the purpose, if he pleased. He would prefer that; but he appealed with confidence to the noble Lord and to the House, that upon the commonest and first principles of justice the idea was not to be for a moment entertained, that you could, without compensation or consent of the parties, take away the existing legal remedy—nay, further, cancel an existing legal debt; thus, too, punishing the obedient, and rewarding those who had been disobedient to the laws. He (Mr. Shaw) would not insult the good sense of the Committee by stopping to argue so self-evident a proposition, but at
 1151
 Mr. French  could not conceive in what manner his Majesty's Government could justify this clause as it at present stood; and although he was convinced it must be abandoned, he thought some explanation ought to be given as an excuse for its introduction. A number of unquestionable debts, legally and justly due by one set of private individuals to another set of private individuals, were to be cancelled; the debtor was to be discharged from his debt, the creditor was to be degraded, and no compensation to the injured party was contemplated by the Bill. If public expediency required that private claims should be arbitrarily extinguished, the individuals whose rights were sacrificed were at least entitled to compensation, and that course had been pursued, in all the measures which had hitherto been proposed on this subject. In the Bill of last year the arrears of tithe were proposed to be cancelled, but provision was made for their payment out of that portion of the million loan which remained unappropriated; there was at the present time an additional year's arrear to be provided for, and the provision for payment was altogether omitted. Not only were the debts due by the occupiers when their enforcement might lead to breaches of the peace to be cancelled, but the landlord who had become liable under Lord Stanley's Act (not by certificate or agreement, but as owners of estates, the tenants of which hold at will), were to be exempted from payment; a distinction was taken in favour of those who had adopted legal proceedings, who had enforced their claims by filing writs of rebellion, of the fatal consequences of which they had heard so much, and those were the persons who would be protected; those alone who had for born to take legal proceedings were to be mulcted and punished. The class which was most deserving of consideration, those who had been lenient and forbearing, who had preferred to forego their incomes rather than have recourse to harsh measures, and to come into collision with their parishioners, were to be the sufferers. If a measure were to be devised to diminish respect for the laws—to make all parties feel it to be their interest to resist, not to obey them, this was exactly the measure,
 1152
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that for some reasons which had been stated before, the Government did not think fit to call upon this country to advance 200,000 l. l.
 Mr. Jephson  considered this as one of the most monstrous clauses that ever was introduced into any Bill. He himself was a tithe-owner, and he waited before taking steps for the recovery of his tithes to see how Parliament would deal with the subject. He was obliged to give directions to his solicitor to commence upwards of seventy actions for the recovery of the arrears due to him; and he begged to assure the noble Lord that he was determined not to sacrifice his property. He would tell those hon. Members from whose mouths the words "justice to Ireland" dropped, that this would not be an act of justice. What would be the effect of the clause? A tithe-holder, who, from the best motives, had suffered his tithes to run into arrear until he could ascertain what Parliament would do, both in reference to the security of the tithe-owner and the relief of the tithe-payer, would be deprived of his arrears, unless he adopted those forcible means which he had been so anxious to avoid. He thought some indemnity ought to be given for the arrears.
 Mr. David Roche  contended, that the clause did not bear the construction put upon it.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  thought it was useless to discuss the likely effects of the Bill, when, as had been intimated by an hon. Gentleman opposite, it was not probable that it would be carried.
 Mr. O'Connell  entirely concurred with the hon. Member for Limerick. It was clear that they were only wasting their time, for no measures for the pacification of Ireland, respecting tithes, or anything else, were likely to be passed in the other
 1153
 Viscount Morpeth  saw no difficulty in carrying the clause into effect with respect to tithes that would hereafter become due; but he was quite willing to allow of some modification of the other part of the clause. He would suggest that three months should be allowed for the recovery of arrears after the passing of the Bill.
 Lord Stanley  said, that the clause prevented the parties from recovering the arrears, while it gave them nothing in lieu. This he thought most unjust. His noble Friend proposed to give time for the recovery of arrears by action. Continual complaints had been made, that Ireland was overrun with suits and actions for tithes, and yet his noble Friend now proposed to renew and protract those objectionable proceedings. He could not conceive why his noble Friend should hesitate to strike out the words relating to the arrears.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished it to be recollected what was the intention of this Bill. It was intended to pacify the people. By consenting to strike out the words referred to, his Majesty's Government allowed litigation to remain, and all suits for the arrears of tithes to continue. When there was a wish for the pacification of the country, he was surprised that any paltry consideration as to the saving of the remnant of the million could be thought of.
 Mr. Shaw  could safely undertake on the part of the Irish clergy, that they would allow their personal and private interests to interfere with any equitable and permanent adjustment of the question of tithe property, and in that spirit he was sure they would be ready to acquiesce in any reasonable arrangement for meeting the surplus of the million, applicable to the settlement of existing arrears.
 Mr. Thornely  objected to the giving up the remainder of the loan for the purpose of paying off the arrears.
 Lord J. Russell  agreed with the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, and said, he was not inclined to consent to such a disposal of the remainder of the money advanced by this country. He also remembered, that the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, when the loan was first proposed, denounced it as a measure pregnant with the greatest mischiefs to Ireland, and said it would be a bonus for the non-payment of tithes.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he held precisely the same opinion still, and felt that the result had fully justified his prediction, that a suspension of the payment would encourage opposition, and ultimately effect the security of the property in tithes; but now, that an entire new arrangement as to the future payment was making, he was willing to agree to a compromise in all that related to the past, and so close the account as to existing arrears.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that if the government meant to apply the remainder of the million to the liquidation of the arrears, the present was the clause by which that should be effected; but as the Government declared that no part of the Bill should pass without the appropriation clause, he rather threw this out as a suggestion than for any practical purpose, as he (Mr. Shaw) was well persuaded that the Bill never could pass with the appropriation clause.
 Lord Stanley  said, that there were names in the list of those who had availed themselves of the million loan, that he thought would have sooner cut off their right hands than have applied for any portion of that loan, which was intended by Parliament for a very different purpose indeed. There was one case connected with the grant of money to tithe-owners which came under his observation, and which he should just mention to the House. It was well known that where lay impropriators were compensated for the loss of their tithes, they delivered in lists of the parties who were indebted to them. One of the claims founded upon those lists was disallowed upon very sufficient, but rather remarkable, grounds. The individual, whose name he should not mention, made his claim in the usual way;
 1155
 Mr. Shan  objected to the words "seven-tenths," and proposed "three-fourths" instead. He had before consented to a reduction of twenty-five per cent, thinking on the whole that was too large, but still feeling that, as a consideration must be allowed to the landlord, the Church was disposed to make a liberal allowance, and not to stand upon too nice a calculation of what the cost of collection from the occupier had actually been. He knew that in many parts of Ireland, and particularly in the south, before the tithe agitation had been excited, the tithes had been collected at a cost of five per cent; but as to thirty or forty per cent, that would be an appropriation to the landlords to which he never would give his consent.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  was glad to hear from such competent authority that the opposition to tithes did not commence with the Roman Catholics, as had been so frequently stated, but with the Protestants of the North of Ireland. He was also glad to hear from the right hon. and learned Recorder for Dublin, that he had no objection to the appropriation—that was his phrase of twenty-five per cent of the tithes to the landlords. What, he would ask, became of the right hon. Gentleman's sweeping objection to appropriation generally, if he approved of appropriating twenty-five per cent of the whole amount of tithes?
 Mr. Shan  denied that he had said the opposition to tithes commenced with the Protestants of the north; but he did say, that, on the whole, the Roman Catholics of the south paid them cheerfully, until they were urged on to opposition by selfish agitators and a relaxation of the law. He was surprised at the misrepresentation of
 1156
 Mr. O'Connell  would wish to bring forward an amendment of which he had given notice. What he would propose to do would be this—that the tithes should be reduced forty per cent—he would have the deficiency supplied out of the money collected by the Woods and Forests, from Ireland, and generally expended in England. From that sum he would take 50,000 l.
 Mr. Shan  objected to the rent-charges being vested in the Commissioners of Woods and Forests for seven years; and he would ask the noble Lord what was to become of them then? He had not objected to the provision introduced by the noble Lord near him (Lord Stanley), giving them the
 1157
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it was objected last year that the Commissioners of Land Revenue were too secular a body, in whose hands it would be proper to place the management of this revenue permanently.
 Lord Stanley  must also object to the proposal of opening this question every seven years. The Bill, in fact, invited parties to re-open it. His noble Friend opposite spoke of the measure as a final measure. He could not avoid congratulating the opposite side of the House on the prospect of finality afforded to it, by the division which took place that evening; nor could he avoid congratulating his noble Friends on the prospect which that division held out of its proving satisfactory. No measure ever could—it was a mere delusion to hope it ever could, unless the rent-charge were redeemable. In the then state of the committee he should not divide upon the subject, though, if the attendance had been fuller, he should have done so.
 Lord John Russell  said, that on the whole a Bill might be final, even though some particular portions of its enactments, were intended only for temporary purposes. He never meant to pledge the Government against redemption.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that they had now arrived at a class of clauses which in respect of injustice and harshness towards the Irish clergy, were, perhaps, among the most objectionable in the Bill; he meant those which gave a power of reopening composition that had been entered into for many years past, and considered, under the faith of an Act of Parliament, as final and conclusive upon all parties. He would read to the House a paragraph from a Petition, from the clergy of the united diocesses of Ossory, Ferns, and Leighlin, which he then held in his hand, on the subject. The petitioners entreated the House on no account to open the compositions for tithe. They said, that the best means had been adopted to have them fairly executed, and, that more than
 1158
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  said, it was a complete farce to go on talking about the details of the Bill in the way they were now doing, when it was quite certain that the Bill would not pass through the other House of Parliament, and their labours would thus come to nothing and prove a mere mockery. Except for the pleasure of hearing themselves talk, he (Mr.
 1159
 Lord Stanley  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had repeated so often that it was a mere mockery to discuss the details of this Bill, because there was little chance, as they alleged, of its passing into law, that he really was inclined to believe that his Majesty's Government had no inclination to go on with the Bill, But if it was not the intention of his Majesty's Ministers to stop the progress of the Bill, he considered that it was not a mockery for the House of Commons to assemble in Committee for the purpose of expressing their opinions as to what portions of the Bill they approved of, and which they dissented from. He certainly was not prepared to say that he expected to see this Bill pass through the other House of Parliament When he recollected the very small majorities by which certain principles of the Bill had been supported in the House of Commons, varying from thirty-seven to thirty-nine, and the very large majorities by which they had been rejected in the House of Lords, he certainly was not prepared to hazard an opinion on the prospects of the future. At the same time, however, he thought it highly important that the country should have an opportunity of seeing what points there were in this measure upon which both branches of the Legislature were agreed. He had no objection that where concealment or fraud had taken place, that the compositions should be re-opened, but to open the compositions generally since 1823, when it was morally impossible the present incumbents could be in possession of the requisite proofs, he thought would be a measure of the grossest injustice, and one calculated to produce greater mischief than it was proposed to rectify. At all events he thought justice required that no compositions should be re-opened later than the passing of his Bill in 1832. That Bill gave the tenants three months to appeal under Mr. Goulburn's Act, and if they neglected to avail themselves of it, they should not now be permitted to do so after such a lapse of time, as rendered almost impossible that the existing clergyman should have the proof required to substantiate the fairness of the composition into which his predecessor had entered.
 Viscount Morpeth  laid, that the prin-
 1160
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that ten out of twenty, or, he might say, ninety out of every 100 clergymen in Ireland would find it impossible to bring forward the proof required. At the time the compositions were entered into the clergyman thought they were final, at all events for twenty-one years? Was it likely, then, he would ask, that they were now in possession of the evidence upon which those compositions were formed? But was the House aware of the nature of the evidence? It was composed principally of the promissory notes of poor farmers for a few shillings each, and the tithe proctors' returns. Was it, therefore, at all improbable that the clergyman should have put such documents in the fire? Where injustice or fraud could be proved he had no objection to re-open the compositions, but to re-open them generally, he thought an act of the most flagrant injustice. The hon. Member for Limerick had characterised the proceedings as a farce, but he knew not why. He understood that it was the intention of an hon. Member to bring forward a motion for expunging the appropriation clause. If that clause were expunged, he thought the Bill might be made a beneficial Bill. He thought it too much to taunt the proceedings as a mockery and a farce, but if it be either, who brought us here.
 Mr. Finn  asserted that the appropriation clause was the only clause in the Bill of any value to the people of Ireland—the only clause for which they cared one button; and if that clause were not preserved the Bill would be valueless.—As to the question of the re-valuation of tithe, he contended that you would commit an act of the grossest injustice, unless the compositions were to be re-opened in many cases.—It was quite a delusion to hope that the appropriation clause could be expunged, and without it there was no chance of passing the Bill through that House, unless the Government and the House were satisfied to disgrace themselves for ever.
 Sir Robert Bateson : As a lover of the peace and tranquillity of his country, re-
 1161
 Mr. O'Loghlen  agreed fully with the proposition that had been laid down, that to open the composition generally, without guarding against an unnecessary re-valuation, would be very injurious. But the hon. and learned Member opposite would find, if he referred to Clauses 12, 13, and 14 of the Bill, that a person who felt himself aggrieved by composition was bound, in the first place, to send in his statement of facts, accompanied by an affidavit, to the Commissioners of Land Revenue, and if they thought that a  prima facie 1162  prima facie
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  agreed with his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General for Ireland in the views he entertained with respect to the cases in which it was desirable that the compositions should be opened, and if he could arrange it so as to meet those special cases only, he would offer no further objection to the clause. He would observe, that although the complaint was to be received on affidavit, the unfortunate clergyman was put to his proofs, and his oath was not taken. What he wanted was a statement of material facts, and those facts positively sworn to.
 Dr. Baldwin  contended, that the appropriation clause must be part of the Bill, and declared, that he was not influenced either by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny or by the Government, to whom he owed as little as any man.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the two sides of the House were very near coming to an agreement upon the matter now at issue. The affidavit on which the composition was permitted to be opened, might be founded upon matter true to the best of the deponent's knowledge and belief. Now, if the affidavit were confined to matters of fact, that would be all they wanted. In the county which he had the honour to represent, the compositions were entered into after the minutest investigation. In other parts of Ireland, it perhaps, might have been different, but so far as regarded his part of the country, he must rescue it from the imputation of having entered into these compositions under any delusion.
 Mr. O'Connell : If he thought it likely that the Bill would pass into a law, he should object to the clause as too stringent, and confining the cases in which the composition might be opened within limits too narrow. With respect to the compositions entered into in Sligo, he could only say,
 1163
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that from communications he had received from Ireland, he could corroborate the statements of hon. Members on his side of the House, that the clause as it stood would be productive of serious evils to the Irish clergy, amongst whom the greatest apprehensions prevailed.
 Lord Stanley  objected to the provisions of this clause, which took the decision of a supreme court of appeal—that of the judges of assize and the Privy Council, and gave the jurisdiction to the three barristers who were to be appointed Com missioners under this Bill. The provisions of the clause would have the effect of still further opening the composition, and that, too, in a manner most objectionable.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  remarked, that the merits of any case once decided by a judge of assize, of course that decision would be acted upon by the Commissioners.
 Mr. French  contended that if any objection was to be made to these clauses, it ought to come from the Liberal Members. They were, if anything, too restrictive. The maintenance of these clauses was absolutely necessary both to the voluntary and compulsory composition. The hon. Members who objected, to interfering with existing arrangements, seemed to forget that they were about to interfere with them in a most important manner, viz., without the consent of the parties concerned, converting agreements for a short and limited time into perpetual ones. Injustice might be submitted to for a short time, but it was rather much to ask it to be permanently borne. The hon. Member for Bandon had altogether mistaken those clauses, all compositions were not by them necessarily opened; on the contrary, nothing could be more guarded against vexatious proceedings. First, it was necessary that a case should be made out to the satisfaction of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, and unless they were satisfied of the necessity, no revision could be allowed. The statement before them must be verified on oath. It was then to be referred to the Lord-Lieutenant, and ultimately to be adjudged by barristers of standing in
 1164
 Mr. Harvey  said that he had to present a petition from an individual which was in every way entitled to the consideration of the House, inasmuch as it was the petition of a working clergyman who was very ill paid, and laboured hard. It was the petition of the rev. Charles Collier, vicar of Hambleton-cum-Braunston, in the county of Rutland, and the statement of the petition peculiarly merited the atten-
 1134 l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Warburtou  observed, that the explanation of the hon. Gentleman was not satisfactory, and thought that the Trinity-house should have erected an experimental light-house on shore, by which without incurring any risk, the advantages of the new invention might be put to the test until the discovery was perfected.
 Viscount Morpeth  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Church and Tithes Ireland Bill.
 Sir George Sinclair  rose, not for the purpose of discussing the principles or examining the provisions of this Bill, but in order to denounce the disingenuous and evasive course pursued by his Majesty's Ministers respecting the clause which was now to be considered in Committee—a course, which though entitled to high commendation as a model of astuteness and dexterity, was, in his opinion, totally at variance with the dictates of candour and straightforwardness. "Five months have now elapsed," said the hon. Baronet, "since the Session commenced. The introduction of this measure, upon which the Government grounded their chief claim to public confidence, and for which they were so clamourously impatient when seated on the opposition benches, was de-
 1174 "priscus amor redit, Diductosque jugo cogit aheneo." cum tot sustineasac tanta negotia solus. 1175 brutum fulmen, 1176 sine qua non  1177 1178 1179
 Lord Mahon  said, Sir, the preceding clauses of this Bill are of such a nature that, discussed in a spirit of fair and mutual concession, they might be probably adjusted to the satisfaction of both parties. But the Committee has now arrived at a point of principle, and, on the fullest and calmest consideration I have been able to give it, and with the most anxious wish to see this question settled, these dissensions appeased,—I must say that the question of the inalienability of Church property is one that admits of no compromise, of no concession. On this principle, therefore, do we take our stand; and on this do I feel myself bound to move, that this, and the following clause, be omitted from the Bill. Sir, in the course of these discussions the arguments of those who advocate a diversion from the revenues of the Irish Church, may, I think, be classed under two heads. It has been alleged by some, that the Irish Church establishment is, or has been, so negligent and inattentive to the duties connected with it, that it does not deserve the same consideration as the Church of England. Others, without having recourse to these attacks, rest their objection solely on the great disproportion of numbers between the Protestant followers of that Church, and the Roman Catholic population. I think that all the arguments we have heard belong to one or the other of these two. Now, with regard to the first, I am not prepared to assert, that the Church of Ireland has been at all times free from blame; I fear that, on the contrary, if we look to earlier periods, we shall find that serious charges of negligence and remissness could, with justice, have been brought against it; and I derive this opinion, not merely from the positive testimonies which have been alleged to that effect, but from the following consideration. In common with a great majority of this House, I believe that the cause of the
 1180 1181 1182 1183 1184 " Proselytism, or inducing a person to change his religious faith by force or persuasion, is specially prohibited by law. Controversial sermons are forbidden by law, and are punish ed by a fixed term of imprisonment." 1185
 Mr. Poulter : Sir, I cannot admit that this Bill does alienate permanently any portion of the property of the Church. I see in it provisions for the appropriation of that which it seeks now to deal with to the moral and religious instruction of the whole people of Ireland, only so long as there can be discovered no substantial Protestant duties unprovided for. And I see in it provisions for supplying such deficiencies wherever they shall truly arise. The noble Lord who has just sat down says, that though he will not agree to the principle of appropriation, he would propose a complete reform of the Protestant Church in Ireland. I ask the noble Lord why it was that such a proposition never proceeded from the other side of the House until appropriation was demanded? When was it that Gentlemen on that side ever thought of looking into the abuses of the Irish Church, until his Majesty's Government thought it
 1186 1187
 Sir James Graham : No, no; it was because he could not collect his tithe.
 Mr. Poulter : And the right hon. Gentleman stated also, that the distress of the clergyman arose from the reductions effected in his income by that Act. [ No!no! 1188 1189  per se,
 Mr. Plumptre : Sir, I object to this Bill, because I believe it has a tendency to weaken the Protestant Established Church in Ireland. I am decidedly attached to that Establishment, because I consider it the main bulwark of the Protestant religion. I am attached to Protestant ism, because I believe it to be the main
 1190
 Mr. Emerson Tennent : Although he believed it was understood by the House that the consideration of this clause would afford an opportunity for the discussion of the general principle of the Bill, he would not avail himself of that permission, as well because he regarded it as a waste of time to protract the debate on a measure which all parties admitted could never pass into a law so long as this appropriation clause was retained, as because on its other main provisions but little difference of opinion existed in the House. He, of course, excepted those extraordinary provisions for wiping away the tithe arrears which were at present accruing due, and for exempting the landlords of
 1191 1192 1193 1194 l. " Not enriches them, but makes us poor indeed.'' 1195 " Rem facias, si possis recte—si non, quoeunque modo rem." l. 1196  imperium inimperio, 1197
 Mr. Morgan John O'Connell  said, it was his intention only to notice some few of the remarks that had fallen from the hon. Member who had just addressed the House. That hon. Member had told them of what were the opinions entertained upon the Church question by the sober and reflecting people of the north of Ire land. He did not know precisely what the feelings of the people in that part of Ireland were at this moment; but he re collected this—that opinions equally bold, equally strong, equally violent, were, if not entertained, at least expressed, some few years ago amongst the people of the north of Ireland, with respect to the House of Lords. At that time, when the Lords were spoken of as hereditary legislators, they were also sneered at as
 " The tenth transmitters of a foolish face." 1198 1199 1200 1201 1202
 Sir Frederick Trench  had listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He had listened to his observations indeed, with the more attention, because they were free from those menaces and that very objectionable tone of language which had be come so common in debates in that House. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had made his statements very candidly and fairly; but at the same time it brought conviction to his mind, that that hon. Gentleman looked forward to the property of the Protestant Church reverting to that of the Roman Catholic, though he did not wish it to be applied to the purposes of the State. He thought that the hon. Gentleman conceived that the property of the Protestant Establishment should be converted to the interests of the majority; and he looked with dread to the practical application of any such principle. The hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, indeed, had taught the people of Ireland to keep within the line of the law; —but when the Government officers came forward they set the law at defiance. The language of the Attorney-General tended to nothing but the destruction of the Protestant Church—though education was the pretence which was set up for the adoption of this measure. Now, no man was more anxious than he was to see education spread over Ireland, because he looked to obtain, by its agency, the extinction of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland. [" Oh!"] Yes; he believed that education would open the eyes of the people of Ireland to intelligence. Then would the unbounded power of the priests over their minds cease; and under this conviction he was a friend to the diffusion of education. But under no pretence, and by no propositions which might be made, would he, for one, ever consent to allow one farthing to be taken from the Established Church. He had seen, indeed, the noble Lord, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, gradually relaxing to the influence, not from without, but from within. In his (Sir Frederick Trench's) conscience he believed, that the love of power and place had led him and his Colleagues to listen to suggestions made to them of which they in their hearts disapproved. He believed them to be mere creatures in the hands of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny — that powerful and mighty giant. They had
 1203
 Doctor Baldwin : Oh! oh!
 Sir F. Trench  begged to tell the hon. Gentleman that he had referred to the Reports to which the House were in the habit of appealing, and from those Reports he would read. The hon. and learned Attorney-General began his speech by asking —" what benefit would be conferred on the Christian community by erecting churches which were a grievance to one set of believers, and an insult to another?" This was the preface to the speech to which he referred. "He had visited that beautiful and hospitable country a year and a half ago; and, knowing the in flammable temperament of the Irish people, he had observed that the celebrated Marquis of Argyle had hated all Popery and superstition, and that such was the feeling in Scotland at the assassination of Archbishop Sharpe, that that assassination was, he believed, approved of by the majority of the people." This surely, was a broad hint to a people who were known to be of an inflammable nature, and upon whose minds had been strongly inculcated by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, the words:—
 "— Hereditary bondsmen know, Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow." 1204
 Doctor Baldwin  said, that the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down had not edified the House with the sound ness of his argument, or the comprehensiveness of his views. He begged to say that he disdained the charge which the hon. and gallant Member had imputed to those who sat on that side of the House; he denied the imputation intended to be conveyed. He sat in this House as an independent Member, and as a friend and supporter of his Majesty's Ministers—not because he was led by the hon. and learn ed Member for Kilkenny—not because he was bound to follow his doctrines, but because he, with others, had selected that hon. and learned Gentleman most freely as being the most capable to lead them. He sat in that House, not because he paid submission or obedience to the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny's dictation, not because that hon. Member had an influence over the people of Ireland, which, indeed, he certainly had, and deserved to have. He could not agree that his Church should be connected with the State; at the same time he respected those who were members of the Established Church; many of the clergy of that Church he was acquainted with, and knew them to be most
 1205
 Mr. Hardy  thought that, after the speech of the hon. Member, little dependence could be placed on the professions of the Catholics. At one time they heard that, if concession were made, no more would be heard of any attempt to subvert the Protestant Church. Well, then, con cession having been made, and amply made, they next heard that if further con cession, such as would suit the insatiable appetite of innovators, were not made they would extort their claims by force. The hon. Member opposite said he would not rob any individual of the Church, but yet he was doing so in the lump, for he was robbing the whole Church. His condescension was as much to be admired as the frank declaration of the hon. Member for Cork, that the Church, and of course
 1206 1207
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the prin-
 1208 1209 1210 l. l. l. 1211 "Dublin, June 11, 1836. " He first asserts that the Commissioners only report the number of schools 'under the Kildare-place Society' to be 235, whilst he states the true number to be 1,050. Now, it is Worthy of observation, in reference to these schools, that oh the 4th day of October, 1834, the Commissioners of Public Instruction, applied by letter to the Kildare-place Society for a return of the schools in connexion with it. The application was refused, but a series of annual reports were sent, ending, however, with that for 1831. These reports merely contained the list of the schools, of which the masters had received ' gratuities, as appearing to be deserving of encouragement.' A list like this could hare been of little value as a guide to the Commissioners at any time, but it was of no value at all after a lapse of three years, during which period, as is now stated, the changes had been so extensive, that the number of schools was reduced from near 1,700 to 1,050. Thus the society declined giving any assistance towards identifying their schools, as other like institutions did. " In the next place the Report does not profess to state the different establishments ' under' which the schools may be for any other purpose than that of pecuniary support. The inquiry was a financial one. The heading of the Report, therefore, is "Sources of Sup port" of each school; and after referring, in about twenty instances, from the schools re turned in the Report of the Society for 1831, to the Reports of the Commissioners for the dioceses of Down, Connor, and Dromore, I find that every school has been reported upon, with the statement that its 'source of support' its 'payments by the children,' '101. a-year from Lord A.,' and the like. It may be very true that the Kildare-place Society give gratuitous rewards to the masters or grant-books for the children in every one of these cases, and thus entitle itself to number these schools among its dependents; but the society did not thereby become a 'source of support' in the sense in which that expression was understood by most of the visiting Commissioners, particularly the two who visited the above dioceses. In every case where it was shown that the
 1212 "There is, however, an obvious error in the General Report at page 15, where it professes to sum up the schools in connexion with the Kildare-place Society. This should have been explained as meaning a connexion in the way of support. That such must be its true meaning is evident, inasmuch as the. heads of the summaries cannot differ in kind from those of the Reports. The latter give merely the source of pecuniary support. How then could the former sum up both these and all other sources of reward, nominal connexion, &c.? " Mr. Sergeant Jackson next alleges error in the Population Returns; and to prove this, asserts that the number of members of the Established Church, in the parish of Dromore, was returned by the enumerator as fifty-six, whilst the Commissioners have only reported forty-nine, insinuating that the motive was to reduce the number below fifty. Now, perhaps, the incumbent may have had the opposite motive; for it was proved by evidence, with which, as the visiting Commissioner informs me, the incumbent, after some time expressed himself satisfied, that he had included in his census of the parish a family not belonging to it. It appeared that these seven persons properly belonged to the adjoining parish of Killenane, and were assigned to it by the Commissioner. "The enumerators had taken a wrong common boundary in 1831. The Commissioner merely adjusted the conflicting claims of the two neighbouring incumbents. " Mr. Jackson next asserts, that he had seen the census made by the ' excellent clergyman' of the parish of Desertsarges, near Bandon, and that the members reported were fifty under the actual number of Protestants of the Established Church. Now it so happens that the number in the Report—namely, 432, is precisely the same as that given in the original census made and delivered to the Commissioner by the very same clergyman. The Commissioner took the number from the census; so that if what Mr. Sergeant Jackson states be correct, this ' excellent Clergyman ' has shown him a census differing from that which he had lately sworn to contain a true census of the population." "The Right Honourable, the Viscount Morpeth,  &c, &c." " Gardiner's-place, June 11. " MY LORD—In the Report of the debate upon the Irish Church Bill, Mr. Sergeant Jackson is reported to have said—'That Mr. Hudson of Springfarm, in the county of Wick low, had been requested by the Roman Catholic clergyman of the parish in which he re sided, to make a return of all the Protestants and Catholics employed by him, and he gave a return of fifty-six Protestants in his house and employment, and ten Roman Catholics.
 1213 " As I was the Commissioner who visited the parish respecting which the above observations were made, I think it right to give your Lordship a correct statement of the facts, that you may be able (as I think you will) to correct the misrepresentation. " Your Lordship is aware that both the census of 1831 and our enumeration was founded upon the number of inmates in every dwelling-house within the parish, those per sons only being reckoned in each family who slept in the house at the time the enumerator visited it. A return, therefore, of the number of persons, Protestants and Roman Catholics, who were in the  house and employment "My report of the number of Protestants in Mr. Hudson's family was made from an original census of the Protestants made by the rev. Thomas Grey, the Protestant curate of the parish of Delsaney, verified by  him upon oath, " The list made out under the directions of Mr. Stennett, the Roman Catholic clergyman, gives precisely the same number, as does the census made by the enumerator of the parish employed by the Commissioners, and both contain the names of many Protestant labourers in the parish who may have been in the employment of Mr. Hudson. It is a gross misrepresentation, however, to say that because they are not returned with Mr. Hudson's family, that therefore they have been subtracted from the Protestant population of the parish, and that our Reports are not to be depended upon. " I inclose the original census made by Mr. Grey, and the list handed me by the Roman Catholic priest, which was made of each town land separately, in both of which you will see Mr. Hudson's family returned as consisting of thirteen persons, all Protestants. " I understand that Mr. Hamilton writes you respecting the other misrepresentations in Mr. Jackson's speech, and I only therefore trouble your Lordship with the above, as it personally concerns me. I have the honour to be, " My Lord, your obedient servant, "ACHESON LYLE. " The Lord Viscount Morpeth, &c." 1214 l. l. l. l. 1215
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that after the attack which had been levelled against him by the noble Lord who had just sat down, he hoped he should be permitted to maintain the statement he had formerly made to the House, and to show that the noble Lord was but little grounded in his doubts as to the accuracy of that statement. He had stated to the House nothing in reference to the Commissioners of Public Instruction he was not prepared with documentary evidence to sustain. He had not imputed, or even attempted to impute, improper motives to the gentle men composing the body of Commissioners; but he certainly did undertake to prove (and he thought he had succeeded in proving) that the returns made by them were, to say the least, incorrect. With the permission of the House he would
 1216 1217 1218 1219
 Mr. Hewitt Bridgeman  said, that in the part of the county of Clare, where he re sided, there were two school-houses in connexion with the Kildare-Street Society, but in neither of them was there a school-
 1220
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that they had both been occupied by schoolmasters, till, from the violent opposition of the priests, parents were deterred from sending their children to be instructed there. The manifest object of the priests was to stop all scriptural education.
 Mr. Finn  wished to know whether the two schools in question, which were now occupied by the coachman and the gardener of Captain Scott, the brother-in-law of the hon. and learned Gentleman, were re turned in the calculations which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made out?
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, they were not. No schools were in the returns which were not at this moment in active operation.
 Mr. Sheil : The hon. and learned Gentleman has pronounced a funeral oration upon the Kildare Street Society. That body is, for all Parliamentary purposes, extinct. The right hon. Member for Tam worth withheld the grant to it, and it is somewhat singular that the learned Sergeant did not recollect, while he was inveighing against the new system of education, that the Members for North Lancashire and for Tamworth, with one of whom the new system originated, the other of whom continued, and even augmented the grant, were beside him. But let not our attention be diverted by any thing of so small account as the Kildare-Street Society, and the minutiae of its merits, from the great question on which the destinies of Ireland depend, and which is before the House. I come to that question, and to the great principle on which it rests; for it has been agreed that the discussion upon its principle shall to night be taken. Some persons are of opinion, that after the very significant intimation which has been given by that House, which is sometimes called the Upper, (and it must be owned that its | tone corresponds with its designation,) it is useless to carry this Bill through its remaining stages in this House, and worse than useless to send it, for the purpose of abrupt repudiation, to the House of Lords. I do not concur in that view. I do not think that this Bill will suffer by the condemnation of those to whom every opportunity ought to be afforded of confirming the impression which they have taken so much pains to produce in their own regard.
 1221 propaganda, 1222 1223 1224 1225 1226
 Lord Stanley  said, that if any persons came to that House to listen to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Tipperary, in the expectation of hearing well-turned and highly polished sentences and richly-ornamented declamation, they would seldom be dis-
 1227 1228 1229 " A loud cheer." 1230 1231 maximum maximum l. 1. 1232 l. l. l. Cheers. 1233 cheers. cheers. l. l. l. l. 1234 l. 1. 1235
 Mr. O'Connell : I rise to order. Have I not a right to express my feelings when a charge is untruly made against me. In the first place, the noble Lord garbles my letter. I repeat it. I repeat it distinctly, that the noble Lord, in the first place, read garbled extracts from my letter. In the next place the noble Lord said, that the people of Ireland had often followed my advice to their detriment. When such assertions, so foreign from the fact, are made, I conceive that I have a right to reply to them. If such a mode of argument is unworthy of any man, it is still less becoming in the noble Lord, whom I have observed shrink from every man in the House but me.
 The Chairman : When a question upon a point of order is thus directly and formally put to me I have not the slightest hesitation in replying to it. Strictly speaking, no one hon. Member has a right in the course of a speech, or after a speech, to say it is not true. But then I must appeal to the recollection of every hon. Member present to bear me out when I say, that however this kind of expression may not be warranted by the strict rules of debate, unfortunately it is but too much warranted by example. Since I have had the honour of sitting as Chairman of Com-
 1236
 Lord John Russell  rose and said: Undoubtedly, what you have said, Sir, upon the point of order, is perfectly correct, and I have not the slightest hesitation in saying, that, in my opinion, the interruption of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny was most disorderly. But I now appeal to you, Sir, that in the future part of the speech of the noble Lord opposite you will not allow him to be making charges against this side of the House, imputing to us that we are not acting upon our own opinions, but that we are driven on by others to adopt a course which in our hearts we do not approve. [Interruption. After a brief interval Lord John Russell continued.] I say (said the noble Lord), that, according to the orders of the House, no hon. Member ought to attribute motives to others. The noble Lord has attributed motives to us of a most scandalous nature.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull : Sir, you have been called upon to interfere upon a point of order, and you have most properly per formed, as far as you have gone, the duties that devolve upon you as Chairman of the Committee. But I humbly submit to you and to the Committee at large, whether the hon. and learned Gentleman who has been guilty of the disorder you have pointed out ought not, before the noble Lord (Stanley) adverts to any other public topic, to offer some explanation of his conduct. I leave the matter in your hands, Sir, satisfied that you will call upon the hon. and learned Gentleman to explain.
 Mr. O'Connell : I am quite willing to withdraw the words which have given of fence. If the progress of the debate depend upon my doing so, and if they are pronounced out of order by the Chairman, I withdraw them cheerfully and at once; but, at the same time, I caution the noble Lord against indulging in such attacks as
 1237
 Lord Stanley  continued: It appears that my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) has taken umbrage at some expressions contained in my speech. I only think it would have been more consistent with the rules of the House if my noble Friend had reserved any observations he felt it necessary to make upon that point, until he had the opportunity to make a general reply. This, at least, would have been more regular than to take the opportunity of introducing his observations in a discussion upon a point of order arising out of the interruption given to the regular progress of the debate of another Member. I do not conceive that I am passing the legitimate bounds of Parliamentary discussion when I say, that the members of the Government, and when I found my assertion upon the declaration of the Prime Minister, that he is doing that which he knows will inflict a grievous injury upon Protestantism, but that he cannot help it. I think I am not passing the bounds of Parliamentary freedom of speech, when I give as my interpretation of the text afforded me by the Prime Minister, that the Government as a Government, are driven to the adoption of measures such as men acting upon their own individual judgments, would be desirous to avoid.
 Lord John Russell  rose to order. I was, perhaps, to blame for not interrupting the noble Lord when he used these words in the first instance; but as he has now repeated them, I will not evade the opportunity of pointing out why I conceive them to be disorderly. I can conceive nothing conveying a greater imputation of dishonour to any set of men, than the assertion that they are driven on by others to adopt measures which, in their hearts as individuals, they would be anxious to avoid. I should have thought, indeed, that the noble Lord would have been one of the last to prefer such a charge, because, however others might have been ignorant of it, I should have thought that the noble Lord, of all men, knew the difference of opinion which long prevailed in the Cabinet, of which he was a member, on this subject. The noble Lord having now repeated the words which I conceived to be objectionable and disorderly, I am now obliged to ask you, Sir, whether it is in order for any hon. Member to lay upon any Member of the
 1238
 The Chairman : The Committee will see the great difficulty of the situation in which I am placed. I repeat the expression—the Committee must not only see, but I should hope it would feel, the difficulty of my situation. If I were spontaneously—[does any hon. Gentleman re fuse to hear the opinion of the Chairman after it has been asked?] I say that the difficulty under which I am placed is not one of a light nature. If I were spontaneously to interrupt every hon. Member who transgresses the rules and orders of the House, I should indeed have a laborious duty to perform. I abstain from doing so, because I am afraid of protracting the business of the House; but at the same time, I trust I shall never be deterred by any feeling, from taking the proper course when any hon. Member seriously transgresses the rules of the House. If I be directly appealed to, to say whether it be disorderly or not for one hon. Member to attribute motives to another, I can only reply—undoubtedly it is; but the noble Lord must pardon me if I say that a distinction is to be drawn between the application of particular terms to individuals, and to bodies of men. Undoubtedly, if motives of an atrocious nature were imputed either to the Government as a body, or to a Member of the House, in his individual capacity, I should feel myself bound to interfere; but, at the same time, I must say, that I consider the charge made by the noble Lord (Stanley) in the course of his speech to-night, and which he has just now repeated, is one which I expected would not be objected to at the present moment as disorderly, but one which would be refuted, in the progress of the debate, by some of the noble Lords or right hon. Gentlemen, who sit on the right of the chair. I certainly did not consider it as of a nature imputing dishonourable motives to the Government, and therefore I did not interfere.
 Lord Stanley : I am of your opinion, Sir, that in the observations I made, founded as those observations were upon the declarations of the Prime Minister, I did not transgress any of those rules of order which govern the conduct of debate in this House. If ever I am so unfortunate as to
 1239 1240 1241 1242
 Mr. Poulter  begged in explanation to say, that in reference to the point alluded to by the noble Lord (Stanley,) he (Mr. Poulter) was now aware that he should have referred to the Tithe Commutation Act, and not to the Church Temporalities Act.
 Mr. O'Connell  had not intended to trespass on the attention of the House on this occasion. His opinions upon the subject now under discussion had been so often expressed, that he thought the House must be weary of hearing them. But the noble Lord had rendered it impossible that he should be wholly silent. The noble Lord had selected a happy illustration in favour of the present measure from that very letter of his (Mr. O'Connell's), from which he had quoted some passages. It was stated in that letter, that in one parish in Ireland, 9,990 Roman Catholics were made to pay tithes to a Protestant pastor, who had only a congregation of 77 Protestants, being the whole amount of the Protestants in that parish. He supposed that this was all in consonance with the reason, the common sense and the sound logic, of which they had heard so much from the noble Lord; but was it Protestantism? Whilst such things were allowed to continue who was it that gave the blow to Protestantism? Was it he who insisted on the plunder of the 9,990 Roman Catholics to supply the spiritual wants of 77 Protestants, who never saw their clergy man? Or was it he who said that this was a state of things which brought scandal upon the Protestant Church, inflicted an injury upon the Catholic people, and ought therefore to be discontinued. Nay, it was a fact, that in the instance to which he had referred the Protestant clergyman had never slept three nights in his parish since he had been in possession of the living, though it was true that he had, on one occasion,
 1243 1. s. l. 1244 1. s., l. l. s. 1. s., 1245 1. 1. s. l. l. 1. bonus 1246 1247
 Mr. Shaw  said, that there appeared, on the part of the House, so general a desire to divide, that after having risen, he had again resumed his seat; but as he saw the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) intended to speak before the division, he (Mr. Shaw), making every allowance for the exhausted state of the House and the subject, would say a very few words in answer to the small portion of the speech
 1248 1249
 Lord John Russell  spoke to the following effect: Although most unwilling, after so many debates upon this subject, and at this time of the evening, when the House is desirous to come to a division, to prolong the debate; yet I
 1250 1251 1252 1253 * * 1254 1255 1256 vi et armis, 1257 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.,  &c., l. l. 1258 
 
 Net revenues arising from continuing archiepiseopal and Episcopal sees £67,367 
 Ditto belonging to dignities And prebends with cure 11,042 
 Ditto from minor canons and vicars'-choral estates 14,324 
 Ditto from rent charges, glebe lands, ministers' money, and other funds of small amount 451,864 
 Amount of the general fund in the hands of the Ecclesiastical Commission, arising under the Church Temporalities' Act, the Act to alter and amend said Act, and the present Tithe Bill 139,140 
 Making a Total of £683,737 l. 1259
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  defended the con duct of the Trinity Corporation, and maintained that they had acted most generously towards the petitioner. Certainly an explosion had taken place, by which the lights were at once extinguished, and he called upon hon. Gentlemen to consider what might have been the effect had any of his Majesty's ships or any merchant vessels been in the neighbourhood of the Goodwin Sands at the time. The Trinity Corporation had undoubtedly promised this individual to pay him any sum that might be required in making an experimental trial of his new light, and acting upon that feeling, they had given him I 00 l. l.
 Mr. Harvey  said, he had a petition to present from certain persons who felt themselves aggrieved by a statement made in that House by his Majesty's Attorney-General on a former occasion, when he (Mr. Harvey) presented a petition from those parties, complaining of the conduct of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests in reference to the disposal of certain manors in the county of Radnor. The Attorney-General said, that they were instigated to take the course they had adopted by an attorney of the name of Parsons. The petitioners stated, that so far from Mr. Parsons having instigated them to take that course, they had applied to him in the regular course of business to defend and conduct their case. He begged also to present a petition signed by several persons in the county of Radnor, complaining that the manors in that county had been sold in a way very disadvantageous to the public. Since the former discussion on this subject, he (Mr. Harvey) had learned that on the manor which was sold to Mr. Watt for 1,200 l. l.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that so gross a charge against a gentleman, a highly respectable attorney and a banker, in his own town, could not of course have been made by the Attorney-General upon light grounds. The learned Gentleman must have some reason for believing it. He (Mr. Harvey) most undoubtedly did not believe it, and if the gentleman so accused should write to him (Mr. Harvey) demanding an investigation, he would certainly move that he be examined at the bar on the subject.
 Mr. Warburton  presented a petition from Mr. Michael Donavon, complaining of the conduct of the Trinity-house Corporation towards him in regard to a new method which he has invented for the lighting of light-houses. The petitioner stated, that an experiment of his invention had been made at the South Foreland Light-house, and that he had been employed himself there for three months; and he further stated, that the Trinity-house had distinctly acknowledged to him that his invention
 1171
 The Speaker  begged to call the hon. Member's attention to the first paragraph in the first petition he had presented. The petitioners stated, that "having read with astonishment a statement made in the House of Commons, &c.;" he submitted to the hon. Member that such a petition could not be received.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, Mr. Watt had bought this property for 5,000 l.
 The Attorney-General  said, that he, for one, would take no objection to the reception of the petition, though certainly the
 1173
 Mr. Lefroy  supported the motion before the House, not because it went to revise the judgment of a Court Martial, but be cause Courts Martial were compelled, under the present system, to dismiss officers from the army because they would not violate their conscientious feelings. He trusted that the hon. Member would divide the House, and persevere until he should at last obtain justice from the House.
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  approved highly of the sentiments expressed upon this occasion by the hon. Member for the city of Waterford. It showed a determination on the part of that and other hon. Members to uphold the perfect freedom of con science. In the army he thought that the rights of conscience ought to be as much respected as anywhere else. In the particular case before the House the officer was called upon to discharge not a military but a religious service. The officer was called to do that which he called an act of worship, in firing off a particular sort of artillery—petteraroes, not used except upon occasions of religious ceremonies.
 Mr. O'Connell  should, if the motion were pressed to a division, vote for it. As regarded private soldiers, those of the Roman Catholic persuasion had enjoyed religious liberty for many years. He remembered one case where a private soldier was sentenced by a Court Martial to be flogged for refusing to attend a Protestant place of worship. An application, however, was made to the Court of King's Bench. That court immediately granted a  habeas corpus;
 The Earl of Darlington  considered that cases might occur in the Colonies in which it might be necessary, in order to preserve peace and harmony, to observe these ceremonies, and he thought it would be very injurious if the address were carried.
 Colonel Thompson  felt great pleasure in being able to support a motion proposed by an hon. Member to whom he was so frequently opposed. The Sepoy would not wear a pig-skin to make part of a show. Why then, he would ask, was not the con science of the English soldier to be respected as much as the conscience of the Hindoo or the Mahometan soldier? He hoped the hon. Mover would press his motion to a division.
 Mr. Pease  was anxious to know whether it was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to continue the existence of the drawback allowed to the King's printer
 1284
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that it was his intention to let these drawbacks remain as they now were. This measure was one for the reduction of the duties on paper; but he did not think it right to discuss a subject such as that referred to by the hon. Member for Durham incidentally.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he hoped to be able to prove to his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, and the public, as he had already done to the parties interested in the adjustment of the question out of doors, that to go beyond what this Bill provided for would not be expedient. Whenever a reduction in duty was made, and at what ever period it commenced, it was clear,
 1285 1286
 Mr. Hume  thought, that all attempts at fraud might be perfectly guarded against by appointing to each town, some one
 1287
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that great frauds had been committed upon the alteration of the silk duties, in consequence of the adoption of such a proposition as that urged by the hon. Member for Middlesex. He would, however, recommend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider whether, by the adoption of additional pre cautions, the suggestion might not be rendered practicable.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  ob served, that nothing would be more easy than to cheat the revenue, by placing within marked excise covers paper which had not paid duty. He feared, therefore, he could not consistently, with his duty, adopt the hon. Member's proposition.
 Mr. Robinson  thought the more just course would be, to allow a drawback on all paper on hand, at the period of the Act passing. It was unfair to deprive the honest portion of the paper trade, because a roguish trader might, by possibility, commit an isolated case of fraud. He thought, that means might easily be devised to make the parties prove they had paid the duty.
 Mr. F. Baring  observed, that the par ties had full notice of the course Ministers intended taking, with regard to the question raised by the hon. Member for Middlesex, from the Report of the Excise Commissioners, and yet it was not objected to by them when the Bill was submitted to their consideration. Again, in the finance exposition of April last, the matter was mentioned, and then not protested against. It was, besides this, notorious that the stationers had been of late considerably reducing their stock of paper, in anticipation of the present measure. His great objection to the proposition, however, was the opportunity it would afford for fraudulent practices — practices, by the way, which no foresight could guard against.
 Mr. George F. Young  did not see how the allowance of the drawback could open the door to frauds. The dealer could just as well commit fraud now, as after the Bill passed with the proposed proviso. If the hon. Member pressed his proposition to a division, he should feel it his duty to support him.
 Mr. Baines  supported the proposition of the hon. Member for Middlesex, which he contended would do justice to the trade without exposing the revenue to the smallest risk of fraud. He was anxious to know what arrangement the Government had made with respect to the allowance of the drawback on the paper known as "press boards." This class of paper was much used by his constituents, who, under the 42nd Geo. 3rd chap. 94, were allowed back the entire duty, on a certificate being forwarded to the proper office of its having been used in the woollen trade. Was this arrangement, he desired to know, to be continued?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  re plied, that up to the 10th of October next the present arrangement should continue in force, but that after that date the class of paper alluded to, would be charged three-half pence duty. This arrangement would be rendered necessary by the impossibility of making a distinction between the several classes of paper after the passing of the Act.
 Mr. Hume  said, that although he felt it an act of gross injustice not to allow a drawback on the stock in hand, yet he did not think it worth while to press this amendment to a division, but would con tent himself with entering his protest on the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  ob served, that whoever had stock in hand on the 10th of October, would obtain the difference between the new duties and those which he had paid on that stock.
 Mr. Walker  moved a proviso, that the clause should not have a retrospective effect.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that although he was as sensible as any body could be of the in dignity offered to the people of Ireland by the House of Lords, he did not think that the course proposed by the hon. Member would be the right one to give expression to that feeling.
 Captain Boldero  stated, that he had witnessed some scenes of the most extravagantly superstitious nature, such as pro cessions of saints, in Roman Catholic countries in which the Protestant officers and men of the British army were compelled to take part, very much to their annoyance. The sooner the practice was done away with the better.
 The Speaker  interrupted the hon. Gentleman by stating, that it was quite competent for hon. Members to put a question, but not to follow it up by reasons and explanations. Such a course, on account of interfering with the business of the House, must necessarily be looked upon as irregular.
 Dr. Bowring  said, the question of military discipline ought by no means to weigh down the higher claims of conscience. [ Hear, hear! 1280
 Mr. Hardy  was quite sure that the noble Lord, if he would take the trouble to inquire, would find numerous instances of officers having suffered a violation of their consciences and religious principles on the point which had been stated by the hon. Member for Kent, but they had not made any representations on the subject, for very obvious reasons. It was not strange that persons should feel a strong objection to be called upon to join in ceremonies which were inconsistent with their own sense of duty and religious belief; and that argument was constantly urged upon Ministers from an opposite quarter in reference to other questions. Many officers in the British army were duly impressed with this subject, but they dared not to speak out, for fear of consequences fatal to their future career. It was high time that the practice was done away with.
 Mr. Plumptre  (on the Order of the Day having been moved for the Committee on the Irish Church Bill) said,
 1270 "Chief Secretary's Office, Valetta, 14th July, 1823. "Sir,—Application having been made to Government for salutes on Wednesday next, the 16th inst., being the festival of the Madonna del Curmina, at three quarters past eleven o'clock, a.m., during mass, and in the evening, during the procession, I am directed by his honour, the Lieutenant-Governor to request that the necessary orders may be given for carrying the same into effect as usual. "Capt. Bayley, M.S. (Signed) H. Greig, A.C.S." The Application remonstrated against. "Chief Secretary's Office, Valetta, Aug. 4th, 1823. "Sir,—I have the honour to acquaint you that application has been made to Government for salutes, from Castle St. Angelo and St. Michael's Tower, on the 9th and 10th inst., being the eve and anniversary of St. Lorenzo, the tutelar saint of Vittoriosa. "His honour the Lieutenant Governor has been pleased to grant salutes on the 9th inst, at noon, and on the day following, at half past ten a.m., and in the evening, during the procession, from the Castle St. Angelo, ac companied by the tolling of the castle bell, which his honour requests you will order to be carried into effect: but the situation of St. Michael's Tower being in the vicinity of the
 1271 "I have the honour to be,  &c. "Approved, if customary, H. Greig, A.C.S. by order—C. Bayley, M.S. "To the Officer commanding the Royal artillery." Malta Government Gazette, "During the celebration of mass, a guard of honour attended at the church, consisting of a detachment from the 80th regiment of Foot, with their band and colours, two field pieces, and a competent proportion of artillery men. The soldiers were stationed in two lines in the centre of the church, and the guns were placed at the portal. During the chanting of the Te Deum, a royal salute of twenty one guns was fired from the saluting battery of Fort St. Angelo, and also from the batteries of Cita Notabile." General Orders. "Adjutant-General's-office, Ionian Islands, Head-quarters, Corfu, Nov. 13, 1824. "No. II. Major-General Sir P. Ross, K.C. St. Michael and St. George, with all the officers of the garrison and departments off duty, will be pleased to meet his Excellency the Lord High Commissioner at the palace to morrow morning at ten minutes before eleven, to attend the ceremony and procession of St. Spiridione. (Signed) "G. Raitt, D.A.G." "On two occasions, during my stay at Corfu, the British troops took part in the ceremonies. On the 1st December, 1831, the body of St, Spiridione was shown in state, for what purpose I forget, hut I went to see it; there was a guard of the 28th Regiment, which had to present arms at certain times,  when told by the person who kept near the subaltern for that purpose, "The second occasion was on Palm Sunday, 15th of April, 1832, on which I made the following memorandum:—' At eleven o'clock, Sir A. Woodford and other officers of the garrison, having assembled at the palace, proceeded to the church of St. Spiridione — whence, after some chanting,  during which Sir A. Woodford stood with a wax-taper in his hand up the principal streets, 1272 to let the saint bless the country, Record, "At Zante four processions occur,— 1. Corpus Christi; 2. Dyonisius, the patron, who, along with St. Spiridione,  takes his turn to assist the Greek cause; the plague prevented from crossing the sea to the island "At Santa Maura and Cephalonia, processions are carried on likewise." Record "In order to expose the system which now obtains in this presidency (Madras), I propose at present to confine my remarks to some occurrences which have recently taken place at one of its principal stations—the site of a court of circuit, and the head-quarters of a division of the army. By his Majesty's regulations, and by the articles of war, the European
 1273 1274
 Mr. Walter  said, that he merely wished to take that opportunity of stating some facts which had been communicated to him. If he could only then be permitted to put a question, he would ask the hon. Under-Secretary for the Colonies, whether the document had been circulated with his authority? Perhaps he ought to ex plain his reasons for putting the question.
 Mr. Walter  said, that he should avail himself of the opportunity which was afforded him by the conversation that had occurred with reference to Van Dieman's Land, to bring under the notice of the House a subject which appeared to him to be of consider able importance. Perceiving very recently a large placard, of which he held a copy in his hand, exhibited in the window of a country post-office, he inquired how it came there, and was shown a letter from the Secretary of the Post-office in London, directing the postmaster to place one of the accompanying notices relating to female emigration in a conspicuous part of the window, to keep it so exhibited till the vessel alluded to should sail, and to distribute copies of the placard among the
 1269 a laugh
 Mr. Hume  entertained no doubt it was extremely desirable that in the army and navy, as well as in civil life, all restrictions upon religious principles and belief should be removed, and that no man should be compelled to do violence to his own conscience. It was on that ground that he had always objected to the exaction of church-rates, and every other coercive impost affecting the conscientious feelings of those who were called on to pay them. He himself had witnessed instances abroad wherein British officers were made to join in religious processions, to carry flambeaux, and fire salutes in honour of those practices to which they were conscientiously hostile, but it was never considered they were performing a religious duty—they were only acting a part in the show out of compliment to the people of the country. He had never wished to see a man's religious scruples disregarded, however extravagant they might be, and thought, therefore, that it was the duty of commanding officers in the army to be as careful as possible to meet the
 1276
 Mr. Rigby Wason  interrupted the hon. Member, and urged him not to press his motion.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, Captain Aitcheson was called upon by his commanding-officer to perform this duty—he resisted—and it was as much an act of disobedience of orders as if he had refused to do any other military act which he might have been called upon to perform.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that Captain Aitcheson had been punished, not for re fusing to join in a religious ceremony contrary to his feelings, but for not performing a military duty. He regretted the dismissal of that gentleman, because he believed his character in all other respects unimpeachable. It was, however, necessary to show the army, that discipline must be maintained.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  urged that the interests of the natives ought not to be neglected. Perhaps it would save the House the trouble of going into the motion of which he had given notice for to-night, if he took this occasion to ask a question of the noble Lord, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs; it was, whether it was true that a treaty was now pending with Portugal for the purpose of suppressing the slave-trade?
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  added, that if the remaining question respected the conveyance and removal of slaves in the capacity of servants, he hoped that the British Government would not yield the point, as it would open the door to frauds of every kind. Certain islands in the possession of the Portuguese were at present nests of slave-traders. He begged to know from the President of the Board of Control whether there was any objection to lay upon the table a copy of the despatch sent by the Directors of the India Company to Calcutta, dated Feb. 20, 1833.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  must say, if the conduct of Captain Aitcheson was, in fact, a gross breach of duty, as it had been described, then what became of the argument of the noble Lord below him, who founded his opposition to the address on the ground that a discretionary power ought to be given to commanding officers as to the refusal or non-refusal to discharge such duties? There was a great principle involved in the motion, which, if carried, and it should go forth to the army, he was sure military discipline would not suffer from it.
 Mr. Wyse  had always supported civil and religious freedom, and, therefore, was anxious to see it carried out as well in respect to the principles of Protestants as Roman Catholics. He did not wish to see people compelled to pay tithes or church-rates against their consciences, and he was equally anxious that Protestants of every grade, whether Episcopalians or Presbyterians, should not be compelled to do violence to their consciences by paying outward respect to superstitions or practices to which they were totally hostile. He could not see how custom or prejudice afforded any good argument in favour of the practice against which the motion was directed. He hoped that England would govern her colonies in a good spirit, so as to produce an union between them and herself, and all such questions as the pre sent might then be very easily settled.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  rose for the purpose of moving certain resolutions of which he had given notice, expressive of the regret experienced by the House at the conduct of the House of Lords, in rejecting the Bill for the Reform of the Municipal Corporations in Ireland. He thought it highly incumbent upon every Irish Member to express the indignation with which they had viewed these proceedings.
 Mr. W. Smith O'Brien  complained that a million a year was assessed upon the people by grand juries, who were irresponsible bodies. He proposed that a system of fiscal representation should be adopted with reference to parishes and baronies, for the purpose of checking the
 1289
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  said, if the general feeling of the House was against the course he was about to pursue, he would consent to withdraw his motion.
 Sir Charles Burrell  considered that the case of this individual was a very hard one. It ought to be recollected that the circumstance occurred before the passing of the Catholic Relief Bill; and it was not extraordinary that at that period per sons entertaining strong opinions on religion should have resisted the doing that which was contrary to their own conscientious opinions. He knew the gentleman in question to bear a very good character, and he thought it would be an act for which the army would be grateful, if his Majesty's Government would take that opportunity of restoring him to that army.
 Sir George Grey  replied, that had the hon. Member given him notice he could perhaps have made a more direct answer. He believed that the letter and placard had no official character, but that they emanated from some very benevolent gentleman, who wished to send out females to the colony, and who had devoted much valuable time to the subject, although not a few were engaged in active professions. Certainly they did not deserve that any ridicule should be cast upon their endeavours. If the hon. Member for Berks wished for farther information, he might probably obtain it from the hon. Member for Chichester, who was one of the most energetic promoters of the undertaking.
 Sir George Grey  said, it had been in tended to bring in a Bill to regulate the legislation of New South Wales, but sub sequent intelligence from the colony had rendered it necessary to take the question into further consideration. It was impossible at this period of the Session to introduce a measure of the kind, but application would be made to continue the present Act for one year, under the distinct pledge that the new Bill should not be deferred beyond next year. As to his second question, the hon. Member was not quite correctly informed; the expenses of the gaol and police had amounted to the sum stated, but it had not been charged exclusively upon the emigration fund. He could give no further answer at
 1266
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  stated it to be his
 1277
 Mr. Henry Bulwer  alluded to the promised measure relating to the Legislature for New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land, and asked whether it was intended to bring it in this Session. He was by no means anxious to press on too early a discussion, as the importance of the subject demanded the most serious attention of Government. He also wished to put a question respecting grants of land in those colonies. It was well known that grants had formerly been made freely to any persons who wished to reside; but it was afterwards settled that land should be sold, and the funds devoted to the promotion of emigration. Since that date two sums out of that fund, viz., 20,000 l. l.
 Sir John Beckett  wished to set the House right as to the facts of the case. Mr. Dawson, in the first instance, was called upon to perform the duty, and resisted, and Captain Aitcheson undertook to fire the guns. In consequence, however, of some representation made to the commanding officer, he was led to believe he did not intend to do it. The commanding officer went to the fort, and Captain Aitcheson placed a written remonstrance in his hands, stating his reasons for refusing to perform the ceremony, and the consequence was, that the commanding officer was obliged to give orders to a gunner, who was standing by, to fire the guns. A general Court Martial was ordered, and the seventeen officers composing it were unanimous in their sentence, which sentence was approved of by the Duke of York and by the Duke of Wellington, on its arrival in this country, as it was, he believed, generally by the military authorities. He contended that by performing this duty, the individuals did not participate in a Roman Catholic ceremony; it was a military ceremony; and under the engagements entered into between Great Britaiu
 1279
 The Attorney-General  then said, that it was with great satisfaction he thought that with respect to this Bill the amendments which had been made were not likely to create any difference of opinion between the two Houses of Parliament. The Bill had originally been so framed as to avoid giving any offence elsewhere, and the House of Lords had returned the Bill,
 1282 1283
 Sir John Hobhouse  replied, that he should prefer not laying it upon the table,
 1267
 Mr. Montague Chapman  objected to the motion, that it would prevent the cess-payers from acquiring habits of business.
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to put a question to the noble Lord opposite respecting a document which appeared yesterday, and was repeated to-day, in the news papers. It was an order, bearing the signature of the officer in command of the British auxiliary force in Spain. It had some external marks of authenticity, but the internal evidence seemed to prove that it was a fabrication. This general order professed to state that, as the auxiliary legion was acting with the British naval force belonging to his Majesty, on that account all British subjects found in the service of Don Carlos would be treated as rebels punishable with death, and would be dealt with according to law. He presumed that such a document could not be authentic; but as it was in general circulation, and as the noble Lord was possibly in possession of information enabling him to pronounce it genuine or spurious, per haps he would think it important to do so, and would be glad of the earliest opportunity of adverting to it.
 Viscount Howick  begged to say, in explanation, that nothing could be further from his wish than that British soldiers should be employed in any religious ceremony abroad, at the same time he
 1278
 Viscount Howick  gave the hon. Member credit for the best motives, but he did not think that the hon. Member had adduced any case or argument which could prevail upon the House to interfere with this subject. The object of the hon. Member's motion appeared to be to prevent our troops while engaged in foreign service from paying any outward marks of respect to the established practices or prejudices, if they might be so termed, of the natives. He believed that, with the exception of the very few cases adverted to by the hon. Member, there were no gentlemen engaged in our naval and civil service abroad who could feel any difficulty in performing those outward tokens of respect to the feelings of foreign nations; and he was sure that if a different course were adopted in reference to those nations which were
 1275
 Lord Mahon  wished to put one very
 1268
 Viscount Palmerston : the noble Lord, in putting his plain question, need not have gone into any argument on tortuous policy. He had asked whether Great Britain was at peace or war? His answer was, that Great Britain had signed a treaty with Spain, under which she was bound to give to the Queen of Spain the co-operation of a naval force, if necessary, and the British Government was executing fully and efficiently the tenor of the obligation.
 Lord Palmerston  answered, that Lord John Hay had represented that such a force was necessary, in order to secure his anchorage, and to throw up works for the protection of his Majesty's ships, an undertaking he had not been able to complete with the men under his command. An officer and a certain number of sappers and miners had therefore been directed to proceed to Spain to act under the orders of Lord John Hay, in order to assist him in his necessary operations.
 Viscount Palmerston : The right hon. Baronet must be aware that the question related to the acts of an officer not in the British service, nor under the orders of the British Government, for whose acts the British Government could not be responsible, and regarding which they could have no official cognizance. He had seen the order referred to by the right hon. Baronet, and if he were asked as an individual, and not as a Minister of the Crown, in which capacity he had no information to give, he felt bound to say that he believed an order to the effect stated had been issued. He had been asked the question, and he had answered it, and it was unnecessary perhaps for him to add, that any order issued by a general in the Spanish service could not be considered an interpretation of the laws of Great Britain.
 Viscount Palmerston  certainly concurred with those who thought that if there were no rational prospect of obtaining from Portugal ampler means, by treaty, for putting an end to the slave trade carried on under her flag, the British Government would have just ground of complaint; because Great Britain had paid to Portugal a very large sum on a distinct understanding that the slave-trade should be terminated in all parts of her dominions. But he had great satisfaction in informing the House that the negotiations for a new and ample treaty with Portugal for the suppression of the slave trade, had been brought to such a point that there remained only one, and that a collateral question between the two Governments. His Lordship trusted that the same spirit of good faith which had induced the Court of Lisbon to agree to the rest of the treaty, would also lead it to concur in the point to which he referred, and he was in daily expectation of receiving from the British Minister in Portugal official intelligence of the completion of the treaty.
 Mr. Waller  said, that he was intrusted with a petition from the rev. Mr. Clutterbuck, the vicar of Long Wittenham, in Berkshire, complaining of the manner in which poor women and children were treated under the new Poor-law Bill. It appeared, from the statement of the rev. gentleman, that not long ago Mr. Stevens, the assistant Poor-law Commissioner, advised the guardians of the Wallingford Union to pass a general resolution that no relief should be given to any able-bodied person out of the workhouse; that, on the suggestion of the petitioner, the guardians determined that this resolution should be applied to males only; but since the petitioner had ceased to act as a guardian, the Board had been induced, by Mr. Stevens,
 1290
 Mr. Mangles  said, that in his part of the country the Poor-law Act had worked most admirably, and that all the poor were employed and happy under its operation.
 Mr. Mangles . What I state is a matter of fact.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  was happy to hear the statement of the hon. Gentleman, but he believed he was under an error.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  presented petitions, nearly forty in number, from agricultural labourers and others, in parishes in Suffolk, Cambridgeshire, and Bedfordshire, complaining of the operation of the Poor-law Amendment Act, and praying the House to repeal it. The hon. Member observed, that the only portion of the Poor-law Act which, in his opinion, had been productive of benefit, was that which facilitated emigration from one parish to another. In every other respect its operation had been most unjust, and most destructive of the interests of the agricultural labourers. Several petitions complained that the Act had had the effect of lowering wages, and he had no doubt that it was calculated to produce such effect; at the same time he must acknowledge that the wages of labour had risen throughout England of late; but the House must not attribute that effect to the operation of the Poor-law Amendment Act. He (Mr. Attwood) believed that it had produced no good effect whatever, and that, if left to itself, it would inevitably beat down wages. No; the recent rise in wages was attributable to the joint-stock banking companies, which had deluged England with a good paper currency. The petitioners strongly deprecated the separation of families in workhouses, and the other cruel hardships to which the poor were exposed under the operation of the Poor law Act, and they observed, that the poor who required relief should be fed fairly and honestly, and without the infliction of
 1291
 Sir George Clerk  wondered why the hon. Member would not go further, and join his right hon. Friend in omitting the clause and getting rid of the expense altogether.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he wished to ex plain the grounds upon which he should support the amendment proposed by the right hon. Baronet. It appeared that originally it was the duty of the clerks of Session to prepare the proceedings of the Court, they being officers perfectly con versant with all the forms and practices thereof. At that time the documents and extracts to be so prepared were exceedingly voluminous, and assistants were provided. The labour, however, having been reduced, his right hon. Friend reduced the number of extractors; the question now was, whether the business was so reduced as to come within the capabilities of the clerks of Session, and to justify a further reduction in the number of these extractors, or their total removal. It was admitted on all sides that those clerks were not over worked, and that they were well paid. And it also appeared that they were sufficient to perform the duty. A stronger case must therefore be made out to induce him to support the appointment of two new officers.
 Sir George Clerk  objected to the House adopting this course. He understood from what fell from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) at an earlier part of the evening, that the whole of the Bills relating to subjects connected with Scotland, that stood on the orders for that day, should be gone through, before any other business was proceeded with. Discussion on business relating to Scotland was very rare, and he thought it would be very hard on the Members from that part of the country, if they were not allowed to be proceeded with. He trusted that the House would act upon the understanding which had been come to, and proceed with those Bills which the Lord Advocate had expressed his de termination of getting through during the present Session.
 Mr. Jarvis  said, that the object of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury was to further the Poole Corporation Bill a stage. The proceeding would be almost a matter of form, because they were not called upon to rediscuss the principle of the Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  had understood that the Scotch business was to come on that evening; and he had met several hon. Members who had left the House under that impression. He thought it would be most unfair to the Scotch Members to take any other business.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that the under standing certainly was, that if the remaining Scotch Bills on the list were not gone into, they would be abandoned for the present Session. Such was his impression upon putting questions to the Lord Advocate in the early part of the evening.
 Mr. Forbes  said, he should oppose it, as he considered the Bill most arbitrary and unjust. If it were wished to remedy any defects in the municipal system of Poole, why had not advantage been taken of the Corporation Act Amendment Bill for that purpose? He moved that the first clause of the Bill be expunged.
 Mr. Blackburne  maintained that Parliamentary interference was required, for the ordinary courts of justice could afford no remedy in the case, because, whatever might be their decision, it would not suffice to undo all the mischief which had already been done. Besides, two years might elapse before the judgment of a court of law could be obtained. By the undue election of two councillors, a particular party had obtained the majority in the Corporation of Poole, and had given to the officers employed by them what ever compensation they pleased. If it could be shown him that that grievance might be remedied by a court of law, he would then be ready to vote against the Bill.
 Mr. Wynn  had strong objections to the principle of the Bill, and also to the manner in which the Committee of Inquiry on the subject was conducted, for he ventured to say, that every rule which had hitherto governed Committees with regard to the reception of evidence had been violated. He did not understand what useful object the hon. Members opposite had in view in pressing forward the pre sent Bill, for, considering the late period of the Session, and the certainty that in this case the other House would require to hear evidence at the bar, it was impossible for any person to believe that there was any chance of the Bill passing into law before the prorogation. The present Bill was a Bill of pains and penal ties, having for its object to set aside the elections of certain members of the common-council of Poole, who possessed an undoubted right at common law to have their case tried by the Court of King's Bench. The operation of the Bill was not limited to the two individuals with respect to whom evidence had been received by the Committee of Inquiry, but by one sweeping enactment it affected the election of all the members of the council. Moreover, it set aside all the acts of the council, and all elections which it made of officers. Was this a fair course of pro-
 1320 1321
 Mr. Wynn  would ask if any one act of illegality appeared on the face of the Report.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  said, every body who had heard the statement of the hon. Gentleman must feel assured as to the impartiality with which he had acted in the chair of the Committee. Of course, the hon. Gentleman had not exhibited any thing of the advocate in the inquiry which had taken place. He found it stated, that the Report had been framed on certain affidavits. Now, he thought it unfair for any such proceedings to be founded on affidavits, when there was strong political excitement or feeling, parties were often tempted to put that on paper which they would not say if they apprehended a cross examination. He remembered that Lord Lyndhurst when at the bar said—" who shall transfer the blush of bribery to paper?" He observed that there was a reference to the affidavits in the appendix, but on examining it he found no affidavits there. This the hon. Gentleman said was the omission of the printer, but be the fault i whose it might, he would ask the House would they vote away the rights of the people without evidence? He regretted the absence of the learned Solicitor-General, because he wished to know whether the
 1323
 Lord John Russell  thought an under standing might be come to, and the mistake rectified. There was a precedent, he believed, for the returning of Bills from the Lords under nearly similar circumstances. It would, then, be the best way to send a message, and at the same time to be pre pared with a precedent.
 Mr. Baines  wished to know whether it was the intention of the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Morrison) to proceed this Session with his Bill for the periodical revision of the tolls upon railways. There was a strong impression out of the House that this was a very extraordinary interference with property, and he therefore wished to know whether it was the intention of the hon. Member to proceed with his Bill, feeling, as he must feel, that the Bill was not approved of either in the House or out of the House.
 Mr. Twiss  must totally deny that the Committee was satisfied with the evidence, or that they were unanimous in their decision. This was evident from the fact that some members of the Committee voted against the Bill. On the trial also which took place, some of those who had been condemned by the Committee were declared innocent by a court of law. He believed DO enlargement of the rule, as it was stated, Had taken place, and that the case stood for hearing this month. Let them look at the inconvenience which might arise if this matter should be brought before the House of Lords, where it was not the practice to examine witnesses upon affidavit. There was no sufficient reason shown why the House should now prematurely decide upon a question which would be far more satisfactorily decided upon by a court of law.
 The Speaker  said, that no doubt those who had the engrossing of the Bill acted wrong in not exercising more diligence in a matter of such importance, and affecting the religious sentiments of such a large and respectable body as the Dissenters of Eng gland; but so many alterations had been made in it, that there were ample grounds for palliation of the error. It would, how ever, be for the House to decide how the difficulty could be removed, and the Bill altered to the state in which it had passed that House.
 Mr. Morrison  had no hesitation in saying that it was his present intention to proceed with his Bill to the second reading. He would, however, move that the second reading be postponed till Monday, in order to give hon. Members, whose constituents felt an anxiety on the subject, an opportunity of consulting them. If he thought that his Bill could not be passed this Session be would withdraw it; but he
 1311
 Mr. Praed  rose, amidst cries of "Question." He was sitting there, he said, judicially, and he trusted the House would hear him. He was not present upon a former occasion when the Solicitor-General delivered his opinion upon this Bill. In this he was unfortunate, but the Solicitor General himself was equally unfortunate in not having heard his (Mr. Praed's) opinion. He did not deny that this might be a case for Parliamentary decision, but not under present circumstances, because it was pending in a court of law. If the Solicitor-General were now present, he felt confident that, after the opinion before ex pressed by his hon. and learned Friend, the Bill would not be allowed to proceed further. He contended that the case of Great Yarmouth was a case in point. There, two witnesses were dismissed by a Committee
 1324
 Mr. Hardy  could not see how hon. Gentlemen opposite could support the Bill, after the Solicitor-General had described it as a dangerous precedent. For himself, he should give it his decided opposition.
 Mr. Leader  defended the conduct of the Committee, and denied that the Chairman had put questions unfairly to any of the witnesses. The Committee was a very fair one, and was attended daily by three or four gentlemen on one side, and three or four on the other side.
 The Lord Advocate  reminded the right hon. Baronet, that he had himself when in office appointed four clerks or extractors, whose salaries amounted to 450 l. l. l.
 The Lord Advocate  had understood that he was to proceed with his two first Bills. With regard to his other Bills, whether they should come on or not, in preference to that of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury, he should leave for the right hon. the Speaker to decide. He should wish to insist on his right to go on, if he was in titled to do so.
 The Lord Advocate  did not see any reason why a subject of that sort need be made the subject of a legislative enactment. It must be well known to many hon. Members then present, that Judges had often had seats in that House without its being found to interfere with their judicial duties. At present there was but one Judge of the Court of Session who be longed to the General Assembly; for that learned individual he entertained the highest respect, and he was quite sure that the performance of one class of his duties never interfered with that of the other. With only one Judge, then, in the General Assembly, it was hardly worth while to found on that a Parliamentary proceeding. Doing so would seem to imply that the Judges of the Court of Session did not so far defer to public opinion as to abstain from connexion with matters inconsistent with their judicial situations.
 Mr. Poulter  rose to move, that the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Poole Corporation Bill be read.
 Mr. Poulter  said, the noble Lord, the Secretary of State, and leader of that House, had distinctly told him that he (Mr. Poulter) should be permitted to proceed with the Poole Corporation Bill, when the Scotch Bills, which had been under consideration, were disposed of, that being the rotation in which the Bill in question stood on the orders. He must say, that he considered
 1315
 Mr. Poulter  referred to the case of G. Morris, who, having voted on one paper, a second was received by the mayor. Then there was another person whose name was not on the list of voters, but who was allowed to vote because he had the impudence to say that he was the person. James Parker was brought to personate his father, in the case of another person there was perjury.
 Mr. Poulter  replied in the affirmative; and, in answer to another question from the same hon. Member, added, that it was impossible that the decision of a jury could be any other than against the defendant.
 Mr. Poulter  said., a greater quantity of misconception, of unfair and inaccurate reasoning, was never before presented to the consideration of the House, than was brought before it by the right hon. Gentle man. There had been such a mass of un reasonable arguments that he really was in a dilemma as to what he should begin with. In the first place he would refer to the allusion which had been made to the speech of the Solicitor-General; and here he must say, that he did not know where the right hon. Gentleman had got the speech, but it was certainly an inaccurate version that he gave the House. The Solicitor-General admitted that this was a perfect case for legislation. The fact was undeniable that gross fraud had been practised at the election of the councillors, who had been referred to. The reason why they had not called the eighty-eight witnesses was, because the Committee wished to avoid expense, but no limit was set as to the time when they might be called. Then, as regarded the affidavits not appearing in the appendix, that omission was an error of the printer. The great recommendation of this Bill was, that it provided what the law of the country could not give. If this Bill did not pass, the people would be left for sis years in the hands of those in whose election they had no concern whatever. The Committee had so many gross cases of fraud proved to
 1322
 Mr. Poulter  moved, that the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Poole Corporation Bill he read.
 Mr. Wilks  would not then press his motion, but renew it to-morraw.
 Mr. Wilks  was desirous of calling the attention of the House to a mistake of considerable importance which had been suffered to creep into the Marriage Bill which had recently passed through that House. That Bill contained a proviso that a declaration should be made by the parties about to have the marriage solemnly performed before the civil authorities to the following effect:—" I have a conscientious scruple against being married in church or chapel, or by a religious ceremony." In the votes of that House it appeared that a question had been raised to leave out the clause containing this declaration, and the motion was made that the words left out do stand part of the Bill. On which the House divided, when there appeared, ayes 67, noes 108. This decision determined that the proviso should be left out, and it was with very great surprise that he (Mr. Wilks) found that his proviso formed part of the Bill in the other House, and was in the printed orders of the Lords. This discovery excited great dismay and alarm among all the Dissenters, who held a meeting yesterday, at which he attended, and the alarm excited was indescribable. They resolved to petition Parliament on the subject, as rather than
 1310
 Mr. Hume  said the principal reason why he supported the clause in its present shape was, because it was founded on the recommendation of the Commissioners.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would support the Lord Advocate upon the principle of economy, because he was going to effect a saving of 1,000 l.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  certainly under stood that the whole of the Scotch Bills were to be proceeded with; and he must say, it would be rather hard upon Scotch Members, who had been awaiting the discussion of these measures nearly the whole of the Session, if that understanding was not to be adhered to. His understanding was, that the previous discussion related to what question should come on when the Scotch Bills were disposed of.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in the early part of the evening, had stated distinctly, that the Government had the right to take their orders first, but they had waived that right in favour of the hon. Member for Shaftesbury.
 Mr. Gillon  rose to move a clause, of which he had given notice, the object of which was to disable Judges of the Court of Session from sitting in the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, and also to provide that those learned persons be not members of any mercantile company, There were, he observed, several objections to their occupying seats in the General Assembly; one of these was, that they there met on terms of perfect equality with the youngest advocate belonging to the profession, and they were thus exposed to frequent collisions with persons junior to them in age, and much inferior in rank; but a still stronger reason was this, that in the Court of Session they might be, and indeed often were called upon to revise the
 1314
 Mr. Gillon  contended, that if the Scotch Bills were not proceeded with on that evening, the Scotch Members would be very ill-used.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  seeing the noble Lord, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, in his place, would take that opportunity of asking a question relating to a man named John Conway, who was taken up under a writ of rebellion, and committed to the county of Limerick gaol, where he was confined for a month, and obliged to break stones like the common felons of the prison, by the governor of the prison, against whom he would not be supposed to offer any censure. He was subsequently sent to Dublin handcuffed, and under an escort; and having been brought before the Barons of the Exchequer it was decided that he had been illegally detained, and was order ed to be discharged. There were many circumstances in the case to make it one of an oppressive nature against Conway, who had not been in possession of the farm for nearly two years before; and although the sum claimed under the Tithe Com mutation Bill amounted to 10 l. l. s. 1312
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  was quite sure that the counting of the House did not originate with those who wished to proceed with these Bills; neither he nor those around him participated in that motion, and surely it was going rather too far to charge that side of the House with a wish to obstruct the progress of the public business. He did not know who the hon. Member was who had moved that the House be counted, but it was too much to impute to those Members for Scotland who wished these Bills to be proceeded with, that they had any desire to impede the public business, to get through which they had attended under the express understanding which had been come to with respect to these measures. The Members on the Opposition side of the House could know nothing of what passed privately between the hon. Member for Shaftesbury and the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). The noble Lord had said, the Scotch Bills were to be proceeded with first; and on his way down to the House, he had met several hon. Members, who had told him that such was the case.
 Sir James Graham  thought that a precedent would be necessary before adopting the resolution of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, the rule was, that Orders of the Day were completely
 1316
 Sir William Rae  said, that when he came into office he found six clerks, and, on account of the decrease in the business, he reduced the number to four. Since that time, by means of many improvements which had been introduced in the proceedings of the Court, the business was still further decreased, so that it could be easily per formed by the clerks of Session, whose duty it originally was. He thought, the whole of these officers might now be removed, and on this point he expected the support of the hon. Member for Middlesex.
 Sir William Rae  expressed his strong objection to the clause, as tending to entail upon the public a great and unnecessary expense, inasmuch as there were already four clerks of Session, receiving 1,000 l.
 Sir William Rae  said, he had stopped in town in order to be present to take a share in the discussion on the Scotch Bills; he had made inquiry at the Board of Trade, and had been assured that the Committee on the Lighthouses Bill would be deferred, in order to give precedence to the Scotch business.
 Sir William Rae  moved as an amendment, the Order of the Day for the further consideration of the Report on the Small Debts (Scotland) Bill.
 Mr. Trevor  supported the motion. He believed that if the municipal elections in Poole had turned out satisfactorily to the gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House, the present Bill would never have been heard of. It was a most unjust measure, because the case was about to undergo investigation in a court of law.
 Lord Morpeth  replied, that no official communication had been made on the subject, and all he knew of it was from what appeared in the papers. As for the con. duct of the gaoler, the Government had nothing to do with him; he was the officer of the High Sheriff of the county, and was only accountable to him.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, he must object to the clause. It went to take away altogether the jurisdiction of the Lord Mayor as conservator of the Thames. It was now more than sixty years since the Admiralty attempted, but in vain, to dispute that jurisdiction, and to set aside the rights of the Corporation of London in that respect. The effort should not now be repeated by smuggling a clause like this into a private bill. The effect of the introduction of such a clause into the Bill would be to drive the Corporation of London, very unwillingly, to oppose the Bill in the Lords, and they were sure to meet with success there, as justice was always done them in the other House, whenever they went there on points of right and law. The clause should be withdrawn or postponed. It was a matter of just complaint that no notice had been given of such a clause, and that it was never proposed in the Committee. It was only a few minutes ago
 9
 Mr. Alderman Wood : It had done so on several former occasions. The Admiralty of course had no desire to impede the progress of the Bill; but they could not allow the navigation of the river, in which they were interested, to be interfered with without their permission. The present clause, therefore, was proposed to be inserted, empowering the parties to build the pier in a way that should be approved of by the Admiralty.
 Mr. Wallace  begged leave to move without making any remarks, that the House do meet at twelve o'clock on Monday to go into Committee on the Poole Corporation Bill.
 Mr. Heathcoate  said, that the Agricultural Committee would re-assemble tomorrow to make their report, and that it would not be finished for some days. He would protest, therefore, against the suspension of the sitting of that Committee on Monday by an early sitting of the House.
 Mr. Wallace : under the circumstances would withdraw his motion, and endeavour on another day to obtain a morning sitting for the discussion of the Bill.
 Mr. Heathcote  wished to ask his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade, a question relating to a subject of great interest to the agricultural and manufacturing community. His right hon. Friend was aware that there was a great exportation of English Wool to France. Last year it amounted to 5,000,000lbs. The state of the Trade, nevertheless, between France and this country had been in a most unsatisfactory condition, for while we took their wool at a merely nominal duty, the duty imposed on our wool in France was almost a prohibitory one. He was given to understand, however, that France had lately made a reduction in the duty, and he hoped that his right hon. Friend would confirm that statement.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed that the hon. Member for Weymouth had dwelt much on the necessity of reducing the incomes of the Bishops. He supposed the meaning of his argument to be, that the livings of the Church should have no adequate incomes attached to them. The hon. Gentleman had also omitted to state that 150,000 l. 48
 Mr. Wynn  protested against delay, as the Bill affected the interests of all the members of the Church of England, scattered over different parts of the country. He should, therefore, vote for the House immediately taking the measure into consideration.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that such a sitting would be very inconvenient, and would require strong reasons to induce the House to adopt it. The hon. Member had offered no reasons whatever for the Motion, which he would certainly oppose.
 Lord John Russell  was most anxious to consult the convenience of the House, and he therefore should not oppose the motion, if it was the wish of the House it should be carried. At the same time he must state that it was his own opinion it was not advisable for the House to meet on Monday morning. If the House sat at twelve o'clock on that day, three or four important Committees must suspend their sittings. That appeared to him a paramount objection to the morning sitting. The two first clauses of this Bill had already met with great opposition, and if the House should sit on Monday morning, the result would be that the whole time would be occupied with the discussion of the second clause, without making any advance in the progress of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Member's objection would be good if the power of the Commissioners was unlimited, but it was defined and restricted by the 10th Clause to matters of detail. The objection of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, was to Commissioners having power to alter the schedules of the Registration of Births Bill, and thereby being enabled to form any measure they thought fit. In this Bill there was no such power given. And, therefore, though the objection of the hon. Gentleman would be, if founded in truth, a very strong one, it entirely fell to the ground when the 10th Clause was considered.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the question involved the whole principle of Reform. If the House were to say, that the surplus of the see of Durham, the largest which the Church Commissioners were likely to have, should not be applied as they recommended, it would put a stop to the whole measure. Hon. Members had not adverted to the real question, which was simply whether this income should be taken away from the bishopric of Durham, to be applied to other bishoprics.
 Lord John Russell  said, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to carry into effect the recommendations contained in the Fourth Report of the Commissioners of Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues. He wished, before he formally submitted his motion, that the House resolve itself into a Committee, to give, as briefly as he could, a general view of the nature of the measures which were before the House respecting the Established Church. Anxious as he had always been that measures should be taken to correct any defects that might exist in the Established Church, he had always been likewise anxious that every necessary reform in the Church should take place with the goodwill and assent, both of the prelates who were the heads of that Church, and of the great body of the clergy of the Establishment. It was, therefore, with great satisfaction that he had seen the appoint-
 14 15 l. l. l. l. l. l. in commendam l. l. 16 in commendam l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 17 l. 18 l. l. l. l. l. * l. l. l. l. l. l. * 
 
 Proposed ARRANGEMENT of EPISCOPAL INCOMES according to third REPORT—Propositions 41 and 42. 
 PROPOSITION 41. 
 Estimated Income. Proposed future Income. Excess. 
 1. Canterbury 18,090 15,000 3,090 
 York 10,270 10,000 270 
 London 13,890 10,000 3,890 
 Durham 19,480 8,000 11,480 
 Winchester 10,370 7,000 3,370 
 Ely 9,400 5,500 3,900 
 Worcester 6,500 5,000 1,500 
 Bath and Wells 5,550 5,000 550 
 St. Asaph 5,500 5,200 4,110 
 Bangor 3,810 
 £102,860 £70,700 £32,160 
 Deficiency. 
 2. Bristol 2,090 5,000 780 
 Gloucester 2,130 
 
 PROPOSITION 42. 
 3. Carlisle 3,050 4,500 1,450 
 Chester 2,900 4,500 1,600 
 Chichester 3,610 4,500 890 
 St. David's 2,800 4,500 1,700 
 Exeter 2,790 4,500 1,710 
 Hereford 2,650 4,500 1,850 
 Litchfield 4,350 4,500 150 
 Lincoln 3,810 4,500 690 
 Llandaff 1,170 4,500 3,330 
 Oxford 1,600 4,500 2,900 
 Peterborough 3,380 4,500 1,120 
 Rochester 1,450 4,500 3,050 
 £33,560 £54,000 £20,440 
 4. Manchester 4,500 4,500 
 Ripon 4,500 4,500 
 5. Norwich 4,700 4,700 Unaltered 
 Salisbury 5,000 5,000 
 
 SUMMARY. 
 From To Excess. Defic. 
 1. Nine Sees to be reduced £102,800 70,700 32,160 
 2. One See to be raised 4,220 5,000 780 
 3. Twelve Sees to be raised to £4,500 each 33,560 54,000 20,440 
 4. Two new Sees at the same 9,000 9,000 
 5. Two unaltered 9,700 9,700 
 £150,340 148,400 32,160 30,220 
 148,400 30,220 
 £1,940 £1,940 19 l. 20 21 l. l. l. l. l. l. 22 l. l. * * 
 
 Estimated amount of the property and revenues referred to in proposition 56th of the 4th report, from each source respectively. 
 1. Corporate Incomes of all the suppressed Residentiary Canonries, propositions, 1, 2, 15 (excepting at Chester and Litchfield proposition 16, and in the Welch Cathedrals Propositions 21, 24, 25) £64,699 
 2. Separate Estates of all Deans and Canons on the old foundation, proposition 17 (excepting where wholly or in part specially appropriated proposition 18, 31) 17,194 
 3. Separate Estates of Deans and Canons of 
 Durham 11,510, and 11,770 
 Ely 260 
 (But see Proposition 36.) 
 4.Separate Endowments of all sinecure prebends and offices, proposition 30 (excepting those annexed to bishoprics.—3d Report, proposition 50, and those specially appropriated.—4th Report, propositions 22, 26, 31) 26,831 
 120,494 
 5.Sinecure Rectories.—Proposition 44 8,894 
 £129,383 23 
 
 Parishes. Population. Church-rm. 
 London 4 166,000 8,200 
 21 739,000 66,155 
 9 232,000 27,327 
 Chester 38 816,000 97,700 
 York 20 402,000 48,000 
 Litchfield & Coventry 16 235,000 29,000 
 108 2,590,000 276,382 
 One-ninth. l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 These statements were principally taken from the following return to which his Lordship referred: 
 CHESTER DIOCESE. 
 Parish Rectory, Vicarage, or Curacy Patron. Impropriator. Population Net Income. Stipend to Curate. 
 £ £ 
 Motram in Londendale Vicarage Bishop of Chester Bishop of Chester 15,536 219 — 
 Neeton, in Manchester Perpetual Curacy Collegiate Church of Manchester 11,821 155 — 
 Oldham Rector of Presswich 32,381 191 — 
 Runcorn 6,360 294 — 
 Shotwick Dean and Chapter of Chester 713 88 — 
 Walton on the Hill Vicarage endowed with Great Tithes. 46,642 294 100 
 Winwick Rectory 88 3,616 — 
 Whalley Vicarage 3,660 137 — 
 Whittle-le-Woods Perpetual Curacy 2,987 40 — 
 Wood Plumpton Perpetual Curacy 1,710 96 — 
 Lees, in Ashton-under-Lyne Perpetual Curacy 4,387 131 100 
 Kendal Vicarage 11,840 285 90 
 Heton Norris Perpetual Curacy Collegiate Church of Manchester 11,238 116 — 
 Holt Perpetual Curacy Dean and Chapter of Winchester 1,015 101 — 
 Douglas, in Eccleston 474 70 — 
 St. Bridget's, Chester Rectory 766 75 — 24 l. * l. 25 l. l. l. 26 27
 Mr. Charles Buller  took the same view of the subject that had been taken by the hon. Member for Weymouth, and maintained that the Bill was miserably deficient as a measure of Church Reform. There was throughout the country, a strong, earnest, and sober desire for the Reform of
 52
 Mr. Hindley  said, that he considered this clause quite unnecessary, as the object of it was already fully provided for. He moved that the clause be struck out.
 Mr. Lushington  said, he should nevertheless persevere in his amendment.
 Mr. Charles Lushington  said, that in proposing the amendment of which he had given notice, he should confine himself, to its specific subject, except when it was indispensable to advert to the noble Lord's observations on the general question. The hon. Member then continued as follows: Sir—Before I had the honour of a seat in Parliament I read a speech of a right hon.
 28 29 "When Bishops are settled for life upon their bishoprics, they will very probably mind their cures better than otherwise they can be expected to do. While a man lives in restless expectation of an elder brother's death, it will be one of his chiefest concerns to keep up and enlarge, if he can, his interests at Court, and with all great persons related thereto. He must be very courteous and easy in his present see, and mighty tender in his discipline, that he may be sure not to get any ill words from any quarter." "He must be blind and deaf to the scanda-
 30 "The intolerable spoil which is often made upon the temporalities of the poorer bishoprics by their transient incumbents you have well remarked, and I wish it could not justly be farther observed, that those expectants not content to make more than the best of what they have, do often cast a wishful eye too upon what they are in quest of, and push very hard against the 10th commandment, if not break through it. The expecter is very apt to think the old man lives too long,  et pater ante diem patrios inquirit in annos 31 Matrimonium inter Episcopum et Ecclesiam esse contractum. 32 l. l. 
 
 Worcester and Bath £5,000 
 St. Asaph and Bangor 5,200 
 Ely 5,500 
 Winchester 7,000 
 Durham 8,000 
 London 10,000 
 Archbishopric of York 10,000 
 Archbishopric of Canterbury 15,000 l. l. l. l 33 Periisse Germanicum nulli jactantius mœrent quam qui maxime lœtantur. 34
 Mr. Charles Lushington  begged to know from the hon. Baronet, the Under Secretary of the Colonies, whether the Committee for the promotion of Female Emigration to Australia had been acting under the sanction of Government? That Committee had sent out twelve vessels, containing about 1,500 single females, all of which had safely arrived. The last two, containing 600 females, had reached their destination without the occurrence of a single death. He was, therefore, desirous of knowing whether the Government were satisfied
 13
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that in the autumn of last year he had stated that he had some hopes France would make a reduction in the duty, and he was now happy to be enabled to state that those hopes had been realized. In consequence of representations made by the Government of this country to France, the French Government had acceded to a reduction of the duty, and that reduction had since been confirmed by an ordinance.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that he understood the hon. Alderman's objections to the clause to be, that it interfered with the rights of the Corporation of London as conservators of the river. It should be recollected, however, that it was the right of the Crown and of the Admiralty to interfere with all navigable waters. In the case of the Gravesend Pier Bill, the power possessed by the Admiralty was granted; he thought it was wrong to grant it; but no one disputed the right to grant it. He was sure that the hon. Alderman would not contend that the right of the City of London could override that of the Admiralty.
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, that a saving clause preserving all the rights possessed by the Admiralty with regard to the navigation of the river might be inserted, but where there was a question of conflicting jurisdiction, it should not be attempted to be settled in this manner in a private Bill. There was at present a Committee sitting on the port of London, before whom the whole question of jurisdiction would come, or had indeed already come, and that Committee would shortly report its opinion whether the river should remain under its present regulations, or be subjected to some other form of Government.
 Mr. George F. Young , as the Representative of a populous borough within the diocese of Durham, and one of those Members to whom an appeal had been made, must inform the hon. Member that he was not one on whose support the hon. Member could reckon. He took an enlarged view of the subject, and did not consider that the Bill only affected his constituents, but that it embraced abuses which had been long complained of in the Church Establishment.
 Mr. Lambton  said, that the Commissioners were not sufficiently aware of the nature of Church property in Durham; in fact the noble Secretary of State, to whom a deputation had gone up, had shown that he was unacquainted with the subject. He therefore was in favour of delay.
 Mr. Mackworth Praed  was convinced that the law-officers of the Crown, especially the Solicitor-General, ought to be present at the discussion of this Bill, and it would be impossible for them to attend a morning sitting.
 Mr. Angerstein  having moved the third reading of the Greenwich Pier Bill, proposed the insertion of a clause by way of rider.
 Mr. Poulter  would support the motion. It would be impossible to do justice to the Bill—indeed it would be impossible to pass it this Session, unless they got a morning sitting for its discussion. The measure was one that interested all the Corporations in England, and it went to remedy a great national abuse.
 Mr. Poulter : Sir, I consider that this Bill, if fairly and justly worked out, will be one of the most beneficial ever presented to the Legislature. I have for the Established Church as a body the greatest respect and veneration; if I had not I should be one of the most ungrateful of human beings; my education, my early connexions, lead me to entertain these feelings towards the episcopal institutions of this country, and towards all the ministers of that Establishment; so that, however in other respects hon. Gentlemen who have spoken upon this question may be greatly my superiors, none can claim more integrity of motive than I can. But it is now universally felt, that the extent of some of the emoluments and preferments of the Church are injurious to its true interests, and that it is not required for its true interests that the heads of that Church, its Bishops and Archbishops, should resemble more temporal princes than spiritual overseers. They deserve, and ought to possess, that degree of wealth which on a fair and moderate calculation may be found to be sufficient for supplying all the necessaries, the comforts, and enjoyments of life, and for enabling them to exercise those charities which adorn the dignity of their station. And my hon. Friend on my left, the Member for Weymouth, did not, as the right hon. Member for Cambridge University imputed—very unfairly, I think, to him—my hon. Friend said nothing against episcopal institutions,—he raised no objections to the Bishops,—he has declared himself favourable to those institutions; and all for which he contends is, that while they are fairly and justly provided for—which he desires to see—due regard be also had to the inferior clergy of the Church, in which I entirely concur with him, though there may have been parts of his speech with which I could not equally agree. But though I consider that upon the whole this Bill will operate bene-
 49 l. l. 50 l. l. l. l. l. l. 51
 Mr. Hume  wished to enter his protest against this Bill, at the same time he was not at all desirous to stop; because, so far as it went, it was good. He protested, however, against it as a settlement of the question. It was allowed that the deans and chapters had enormous incomes, and, in connexion with that fact, he thought they were bound to consider how they could deal with the question of Church-rates. Having passed a vote that they would not allow sinecures in the army and navy, he did not know why sinecures should be permitted to continue in the church. As his Majesty's Government had pledged themselves to a reform as to Church-rates, the public expected and hoped they would have the courage to make such a proposition. That House would support them. He recommended them to pursue this course, for there was no subject more important than that of Church rates. He could not take up a newspaper in which a reference was not made to this subject. He thought that no man could for a moment entertain the notion that Church-rates would be voted out of the consolidated fund. Every day the feeling respecting Church-rates was becoming stronger, and he assured his Majesty's Ministers, that neither could Church-rates be paid out of the consolidated fund; nor was it possible to go on with them, as at present. Why not provide for Church-rates out of the sinecures of the Church? He did not wish to take anything away from the Church, but he wished the amount of those sinecures to be applied to the support of the Church. The noble Lord stated, he wished to continue the connexion between Church and State. Unless the noble Lord put an end to Church-rates, questions would be constantly arising which would risk that connexion. It was to be remarked, that the revenues of the bishops were not simply from 4,000 l. l. 37
 Sir Love Parry  could bear testimony, as the Representative of a Cathedral district, that the Bishop of the diocese, although the income of the See did not exceed 3,800 l.
 Sir Love Parry  eulogised the conduct of the Commissioners, (Ecclesiastical Commissioners), and above all the Archbishop of Canterbury, but contended that sufficient attention had not been paid to the situation of the inhabitants of Wales in the new arrangement of the Welsh dioceses. By the proposed system the Bishop of St. Asaph would be liable to constant charges of non-residence, and would lose a great deal of his influence in his diocese. The great mass of the population of North Wales consisted of Dissenters, but they were friendly to the Church, and they, as well as the ministers of the Church, looked at the proposed change with great jealousy. After these observations, he would conclude with expressing his sincere hope that the House would not alow the see of Bangor to merge into any other, and that no part of the funds belonging to that see shall be withdrawn from it.
 Mr. Potter  wished the House to wait till it was ascertained what the other House of Parliament would do with the Irish Church Bill, and the Dissenters' Marriage Registration Bill, before it proceeded with this Bill.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  objected to the power which this clause gave these Commissioners. By this Bill a certain number of individuals would have the whole power of regulating the Established Church; he (Mr. Wason) could not conceive of a British House of Commons consenting to delegate that power, which Parliament ought to keep in its own hands, of legislating for the Established Church, into the hands of these Commissioners. He considered such a delegation of power as most unconstitutional. The other night the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, had objected to the House delegating its functions to Commissioners, and the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had acceded to his views. Why, then, should he hand over so much power as was given to the Commissioners, in this Bill? Why, did the hon. Member for Durham know, that under this Bill the Commissioners would have the power of
 58 "loud cries of no, no," "no, no."
 Mr. Wason  contended, that the preamble of the Bill quite counteracted any restrictions on the powers of the Commissioners, which the 10th Clause might be supposed to contain. He would not weary the House by going through the lengthen-
 59 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Wason  observed, that if all the patronage now in the hands of the Bishops were placed in the hands of Commissioners, a fund would be provided sufficient to increase small livings and for the building of Churches. He could not see why this ought not to be done. The next presentations to livings in the gift of the bishops could be as well disposed of as those in the gift of the corporations. The bishops said their incomes varied from 4,000 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Lennard  complained that the Bill only provided one course of proceeding against a clergyman for non-residence—namely, at the hands of the bishop, or at least through his permission. He hoped that in Committee the Bill would be altered in this particular, so as to give any one who thought proper, the right of proceeding against the clergyman in such case.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said his complaint against the Bill before the House was, that it did not go far enough. If a reform of the Church was intended, a more substantial measure was necessary. The right hon. Member for Tam worth had assigned as a reason for supporting the Bill, that it was in conformity with the report of the Commissioners; but he (Mr. Buxton) disapproved of it, because it was not in accordance with that Report. He should be guilty of great injustice if he did not state, that the person who drew the report appeared to be actuated by a desire to effect a reform of the establishment; but what he complained of was, that the most important points brought under notice by the Report were not touched upon in the Bill, and had hardly been alluded to by the noble Lord who brought forward the measure. The first important fact stated in the Report was, that there were 3,500 livings with salaries under 150 l. l. l. 43 John Russell l. l. l. l. l. s. d. s. d. 44 l. l. 45 l. l. l. l 46 l. l. 47
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that undoubtedly the withdrawing of the Bill might lead to this advantageous result, that it would give the hon. Member an opportunity of rendering himself acquainted with the Report of the Commissioners, and the measure founded upon it, which it was evident he had not yet read. If the House were to be guided by the statement of the hon. Gentleman, they would believe that the only object of the Report and the Bill was to place the lower bishoprics on a level in point of emolument with the higher. Now that was not a candid statement. It kept out of sight the fact, that the Bill restored a number of benefices which were at present held  in commendam 53
 Mr. Ewart  seconded the amendment. He most cordially concurred in the views entertained upon this question by his hon. Friend. The noble Lord had spoken of a system of equality being established. He could not see any equality in a system in which the revenues of the bishops so much varied—the differences existing in the incomes of the bishops were, in his opinion, so many steps in the ladder of ambition. If they did away with translations, there would be no longer temptations to ambition in the Church. He objected to this measure, because it provided for the great aristocracy of the Church, instead of providing for the democracy in the Church. They were enlarging the ornaments of the edifice, when they ought to be extending and strengthening the foundation. It was his opinion that the system of patronage, now existing in the church, produced a bad moral effect upon the people. The ambition, too, that prevailed in the Church was likely to shake the confidence of the people in the Established Church. With respect to translations it was to be remarked that the majority of those belonging to the Church were opposed to it and Doctor Burton, of Oxford, declared that he never yet had found a single clergyman who was an advocate for translations. He confessed that he could not consider the measure then submitted to them as a measure of real Church Reform. They ought to look more to the democracy of the Church than they had done—they ought to seek to make them more like the clergy of the Scotch Church—they ought to have them more accustomed to the habits of the people—to live for the
 35
 Mr. Ewart  was favourable to morning sittings. Discussions were then carried on with greater sobriety. They should remember that the whole of the Poor-law Bill was carried through Committee at morning sittings.
 Mr. Harland  observed, that the Bill proposed to them was founded on three reports, and they had only two of those reports before them. Under these circumstances, he thought the Bill ought to be postponed to the next Session. The principle of the Bill was, to provide from a surplus, not for the wants of the poorer clergy, but to increase the incomes of the smaller bishoprics. He objected to the Bill on that principle. It was proposed to take a large sum of money from the Diocese of Durham, while it was proved, that in that very diocese, there were 136 livings under 300 l. l. 36
 Sir George Grey  had no difficulty in stating, that the Committee to which the hon. Gentleman had adverted, and of which he was an active Member, had rendered most efficient assistance in promoting the objects of female emigration to Australia. The hon. Member for Berkshire had alluded, the other evening, to a placard, which he (Sir G. Grey) had not then seen, but which he had since learned had emanated from that Committee. He then stated it was a voluntary committee of gentlemen, who gave their time gratuitously for the promotion of a laudable and useful object, and he had now to say, in addition, that that committee had acted under regulations which were sanctioned by Government—regulations which he believed had been made after much deliberation, and with a view to render their object as efficient as possible. With regard to the approbation of the Colonial Government, he had only to refer the hon. Gentleman to the paper containing a Report of the arrival of the ships, and the location of the emigrants after their arrival.
 Sir Hedworth Williamson  entreated the noble Lord to postpone the Bill till another Session; and in the mean time the clergy of the diocese of Durham would give every possible information respecting the spiritual state of that county.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that the hon. Member who had seconded the motion had alluded to a Bill which had been introduced in the year 1701 upon the same subject, and which had not passed in consequence of its containing a clause relating to Mayors and Aldermen. It was very true, that this Bill, even with the proposed amendment, would not be open to the same kind of objection. But (to speak seriously), he trusted that it would equally fail. To the Bill itself, indeed, he retained all his objections, though he would not now repeat them; but would confine himself to the single question raised by the amendment. The hon. Mem-
 41
 Sir Robert Peel  said, upon the proposal of the noble Lord to go into Committee, a motion had been made and seconded, to prevent the translation of bishops. The hon. Gentlemen who proposed and seconded the amendment, confined themselves strictly to the merits of the amendment. All the other hon. Members who supported the views of the Mover and Seconded had rather strayed away from the amendment in their remarks. With respect to the see of Durham, as he did not perceive that it had any necessary relation to the question now before the House, he could not discuss it at present. He thought, however, that before the motion was debated further, it would be very convenient to know whether the hon. Member intended to press his motion to a division or not. In case he did, he thought the best form he could take would be as an instruction to the Committee; it would be advisable, however, that the House should be assured upon this point, in order that it might know how to proceed. [Mr.  Lushington 38 39 40
 Mr. Williams Wynn  would not upon that occasion go into the merits of the Poole Corporation Bill, but when the hon. Gentleman said, that it was a Bill that concerned every Corporation in England, he must be permitted to reply that that was the very objection urged by the opponents of the measure against it. They said, and he thought justly, "Why not make this a general measure—why not apply the remedy to all cases, instead of bringing forward a local Bill of this kind?" On the contrary, the hon. Member for Shaftsbury resisted every attempt made on the Opposition side of the House to convert the Bill into a general measure. Everything, in fact, was rejected that did not tend to supersede the decision of a court of law, which it was attempted in the first instance to forestall, and which now it was attempted, if necessary, to overturn. The question now was, whether there was any good reason why this Bill should not take its course like all other business before the House. Why should this merely local Bill supersede all the important local and public business that was going on in the Committees of that House? Committees could not sit when the House was sitting. To himself and to other Members of Parliament it might make no difference if the House sat from twelve o'clock until midnight; but it would be a matter of great moment, and a source of great inconvenience, to the various parties in attendance on Committees, who would be kept in town in consequence. Nothing would be gained, while great inconvenience would be occasioned by taking the discussion of public business at twelve o'clock. Members of that House must take food and have sleep like other persons. If the business of the House was to begin at twelve o'clock, and go on till four, and if public business was to recommence at half-past four o'clock, it would be neces-
 11
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  expressed his regret that he must oppose the motion for the Speaker's leaving the Chair. He felt, however, that he had a duty to discharge towards the inhabitants of that diocese with which he was most connected, and towards the large body of the clergy of that diocese whose petition he had had the honour of presenting to the House. It was highly desirable that due time should be afforded for ample communications with those who were so deeply affected by the measure, and he had the satisfaction to know that in that view of the subject he should be supported by hon. Members who had a deeper interest in the question than he himself bad. He would not enter at large into the subject. It was notorious that the Bill went to abstract a large annual revenue from the see of Durham, and did not confer any local benefit in return. Strongly opposed, therefore, to what he conceived to be an act of gross injustice towards his constituents, he would move, as an amendment,
 55
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  should certainly vote against the motion of the hon. Member for Ashburton. At the same time he would add, that for his own part he thought it extremely desirable that all legislation on this subject should he deferred to a future Session, in order to give time to the Members of the House to confer with their constituents on a subject so very important to the whole community. The hon. Member then defended the practice of translations, as a great advantage to the zealous performance of the duties of the Church—provided they were not so frequent as to render the Bishop indifferent to the charge in his hands. When he looked at the duties of the Archbishopric of Canterbury, for instance, he did believe that they were of a nature involving such manifold difficulties and such responsibility, as would render it extremely hazardous, to place that see in the care of any one who had not had the
 42
 Viscount Ebrington  did not entertain the same desire to have the Bill postponed as had been evinced by the hon. Member for Ashburton. He would not postpone the advantages that the Bill promised, more especially as they were likely to have the concurrence of the other branch of the Legislature. He thought some alterations might, however, be made in Committee; and although no one entertained stronger opinions of the impropriety of the present disparity in ecclesiastical revenues, he did not think that he could, under any circumstances, go the length of the hon. Member for Ashburton, who so entirely restricted the translation of the bishops as not to allow the elevation from the bench to the Archiepiscopal see.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, this Bill created alarm in every part of the empire—the more especially as being brought forward
 93
 Sir R. Price  said, there was a general excitement on this Bill throughout the country, and it would be necessary to have the opinion of the House on it. Something ought to be done to set the subject at rest.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to take that opportunity of expressing his surprise at the introduction of this Bill, which had been read a second time already, the nature of which he did not ascertain until it was sent to him. It appeared to him to be one of the most extraordinary bills that he had ever seen laid upon the table of that House. "Without the slightest preamble, that Bill went on at once to say, that all personal tithes should be abolished. With-out any plan of compensation, without any inquiry into the effects of such a Bill, it declared that personal tithes should be abolished. Why were these tithes to be abolished without reference to any valuation, or provision of compensation for the loss of them? Was it because it was found difficult to assign any reason why they should be abolished? He had never heard of such a Bill before. There was no preamble whatever; and yet it seriously enacted that personal tithes should be abolished. To pass such a Bill as that would be a defective act of Legislation: and he felt that he should neglect his duty to his constituents, and to those whose interests he had always anxiously watched, if he did not strongly express his opinion against this extraordinary Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that if the noble Lord would take the trouble to inquire, he would find that personal tithes formed the greater part of the property of many in-
 95
 Mr. O'Connell : Oh, Mr. Wakley.
 Mr. Goulburn  contended, that no necessity had been made out for such a measure as that before the House, and he saw no remedy in it for that which he considered an evil which was susceptible of remedy, namely, where persons had property in two different counties, they could not vote for both in consequence of the elections being fixed for the same day. Here they were prevented from exercising the franchise in both counties; and this he considered was a subject that ought to be provided for, although it was subordinate in its character. Another question was with regard to expense; and so far from diminishing expense, he thought the present Bill would add considerably to it, for the more the places of polling were multiplied, the more would the expenses of the candidate also be multiplied. He doubted very much whether the diminution of the expenses for conveyances for the voters to go to the poll, would not be equalled by the additional expenses arising from the polling places, which by this present Bill it was intended to create. Neither was he disposed to concur in the principle of confining the polling at elections for counties to one day. Another objection he had to the Bill was, that the elections were not to close until six o'clock in the evening. The consequence, therefore, must be, that they would have in some seasons to be carried on in the dark; and those persons who might desire to return a particular candidate might have the opportunity of so obstructing the poll on the part of the other candidates as to secure
 106
 Mr. Pryme  considered this as an evil incidental to the Reform Bill, and an evil which persons choosing to hold property in several counties must run the risk of incurring. He himself was in the predicament described by the hon. Member for Walsall, and lost several votes in consequence at the last election. A freeholder had always the choice for what property he would give his vote, and he (Mr. Pryme) could not conceive it proper to alter the whole course of elections in the country to meet individual cases of this kind.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison : His noble Friend had said, he could conceive of some cases in which the objections stated by the right hon. Baronet opposite, might arise. His (Mr. Denison's) imagination was not, however, so fertile as his noble Friend's, and he must say, he conceived of no circumstances under which these objections could possibly hold. The great objections of the right hon. Baronet seemed to be, first, that by the late hour at which the polls would close, some voters would be compelled to travel home, perhaps eight or ten miles, in the dark; and then, that the limitation of the poll to one day would facilitate a monopoly of carriages. Now, his (Mr. Denison's) answer to both objections was the same; viz, that under the proposed system, if the additional polling places were properly distributed, no voter would have to travel such distances as to render travelling dangerous in the dark; or as to render conveyances necessary.
 Mr. Goulburn  begged to ask the hon. Member for Nottinghamshire (Mr. Denison) what clause in the Bill prevented a person holding property in the northern, and residing in the southern division of a county, from having to go and give his vote in the northern division? [" the Registration Bill.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  explained; he understood, that all along the discussion was conducted on the understanding that the Registration Bill would be passed. Undoubtedly, if it were not, he should agree with the right hon. Baronet in the necessity of some alteration in this Bill.
 Mr. G. Heathcote  thought it extremely hard where persons had property in two counties that arrangements were not made so as to enable them to exercise the franchise in both. In towns this was provided for, and he thought a clause ought to be framed by which this difficulty might be obviated.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison : As the law stood at present, the objections urged by the hon. Member for Walsall might hold, but by a Bill which had gone through this House, it was provided that any voter might choose at what polling place in a county he gave his vote: whereas at present he was compelled to give it at the particular polling place of the district in which his property was situate. And surely the voter could have no difficulty even in the case suggested by the hon. Member for Walsall, in selecting the three polling places in the different counties which were nearest to each other, and so be enabled to give his vote in every one of them.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the impression on the minds of several hon. Members was, that the clause relating to newspapers would not come on that night, and they had left the House in consequence. For himself he must say, that there was not a clause in reference to that subject, which was not a direct attack on the press, and which would not operate as a restriction on the liberty of the Press. There were now five other public Bills on the orders, which had not received discussion, and under these circumstances, and knowing full well that several of his hon. Friends
 111
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt called upon to state, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury, that it was not intended in any one clause of the Bill, or could it be, in the slightest degree, to impose the smallest restrictions on the liberty of the Press. There was no one clause in the Bill when presented to the House that could by possibility produce such an effect. With respect to the delay asked for by the hon. Member in reference to the subject of the stamp duty on newspapers, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not consent; he was ready to go into the Committee fully to discuss the clauses; and if the hon. Gentleman was disposed to object to them on the principle which he had raised, he would not hold himself responsible for delay. Every hour he was receiving complaints from the Press from every part of the country in consequence of this object having been postponed, and in consequence of hopes having been held out that the reduction would have taken place on the 5th of July, and calling upon him to proceed with the Bill. He said let the House proceed now with the measure, in order to have an opportunity of deciding upon it; and he must say that it was somewhat extraordinary that those very Gentlemen who last year professed themselves to be the friends of the diffusion of political knowledge, now raised objections on matters, to which if he were disposed to accede, nothing would be more discreditable to him. He had been asked repeatedly at what time he would bring on this question, and he had as repeatedly said that he would bring it on that night, and that he meant to limit the discussion in the first place to that part of the Bill which referred to stamps on newspapers—and that course he had determined to persevere in—a course which had been stated by his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, on Friday last. Therefore there was no reason for hon. Gentlemen saying that they had been taken by surprise in this proceeding, and he must
 112
 Mr. O'Connell  could not imagine that his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury, seriously meant to divide on the question of the House going into Committee; it was very desirable that they should proceed with this very important measure. It was essentially necessary that they should agree to a reduction of duty; the only question at issue was whether the scale of that reduction of duty should be lower. The question which remained behind was one of detail in Committee; and so also were the clauses which went to prevent any persons from printing a newspaper who did not contribute to the revenue. But then arose the doubt whether these clauses were not framed with unnecessary severity? He himself had a very strong opinion that, when they reduced the duty, they ought in the same proportion to reduce the severity of the enactments by which stamp duties were regulated. He thought with the hon. Member for Finsbury that these clauses were unnecessarily severe; and he hoped, therefore, that his hon. Friend would allow the House to go into Committee without dividing.
 Mr. Hawes  had certainly heard the statement that it was the intention of the Government to proceed with the newspaper part of the Bill to-night, and he hoped, therefore, the hon. Member for Finsbury would not oppose the Bill's going into Committee.
 Dr. Bowring  thought his hon. Friend could not complain that he had been taken by surprise, and he also begged he would allow the Bill to go into Committee.
 Mr. Freshfield  had also understood that it was intended to proceed with this part of the Bill to-night.
 Mr. Wakley  insisted that such an understanding had not been entered into by many hon. Members. Neither the hon. Member for Middlesex nor the hon. Mem-
 113
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied that he had shown any want of courtesy to Members of that house. The hon. Member for Finsbury was the only person who had made an application to him for postponement, and if it could be shown that any other hon. Member had been taken by surprise, he would not press his motion; but as he felt that due notice had been given, it would be impossible to interrupt the public business. Before they went into Committee, however, he should move that it be an instruction to the Committee that it have power to divide the Bill into two or more Bills, an arrangement which would enable the House, if, circumstances should render it necessary, to proceed with that part of the Bill which related to newspapers as a separate measure. He allowed that this proposition was different from the one which he had formerly submitted to the House, but although he might be charged with inconsistency in pursuing a course which he had before declined to follow, he should never be ashamed of retracting an opinion if he found that it would benefit the public to do so.
 Mr. Goulburn  had never imputed anything like inconsistency to his right hon. Friend for taking the course which he now seemed disposed to adopt, and which he thought it the most advisable to follow.
 Mr. Robinson  inquired whether what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to be considered as an intimation that this was the only part of the Bill with which it was intended to proceed this Session?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would promise not to bring in any other part of the Bill without giving ample notice to those gentlemen who were interested, and if they should offer any opposition to its progress on account of the unreasonably late period of the Session, he would not, on the part of the Government, press the other parts of the Bill. Still he was very anxious that a measure of such extreme importance as the consolidation of this great branch of our law should, if possible, be passed this Session; and he did not yet abandon the hope that it might be carried into effect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that they would then proceed to the clause embracing the actual proposition he intended to make, Clause 163; and in proposing this clause, he wished gentlemen to bear in mind, that the principles which he had avowed in proposing the reduction of the stamp-duty on newspapers were principles leading him to extend protection to those who contributed to the revenue as well as to collect it; and if gentlemen could show him any one clause in the Bill which was not necessary, and justified, as far as regarded these revenue purposes, he would strike it out. He only asked the House to give him the power of collecting the reduced revenue, and of being just to the parties who paid it. In consequence of the omission of the former clauses, it would be necessary to make a new preamble for the Bill, and to leave out schedule A.
 Mr. Wakley  complained that the new and cumbrous machinery created by this Bill would act as a heavy clog upon the liberty of the press. By this Bill, the 60th George 3rd, the Trash Act, as it was called, was rendered even yet more burdensome and oppressive than it was at present. By the law as it stood, a pamphlet, consisting of not less than two sheets and a quarter, and sold for no less than 6 d.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury seemed to anticipate that the present Bill would have the effect of imposing a duty upon a class of publications which were not entitled to pay a duty at present. When they came to the consideration of the schedules, in which the word "pamphlet" would be more particularly defined, he undertook to show most distinctly that such was not the intention. He hoped
 115 d. d.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the clause as it stood. He should have voted with the hon. Member for Finsbury if he thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had fallen into the mistake attributed to him by the hon. Member for Finsbury. His impression was, that if they were to omit the word "pamphlet" in this clause before they had defined what a pamphlet was, parties might bring out a paper called  The Morning Pamphlet The Morning Chronicle, The Evening Pamphlet The Courier,
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that an Act had till lately existed imposing a duty upon pamphlets, and in which, of course, was contained a clear definition of what a "pamphlet" was intended to be considered. That Act having expired, it became necessary, in his opinion, to come to a clear definition in respect to the present Bill as to what was a "newspaper."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if eventually it should be considered that the word "pamphlet" would not comprehend a newspaper under another name, he should consent to its omission when the schedules were being considered. In the meantime he should press its being retained in the clause.
 Mr. Wakley , referring to the words of the clause, said that it clearly comprehended "pamphlets," as in addition to "newspapers." The words were "newspaper or pamphlet," &c. If the word "pamphlet," therefore, was permitted to remain in this clause, it appeared to him that all the subsequent provisions of the Bill, must necessarily apply to pamphlets as well as newspapers—not only as respected the payment of the penny duty, but also in all the onerous restrictions contemplated by the machinery of the Bill. He thought, before they went further, that
 116
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  repeated that he should be quite ready to omit the word in the schedule if it were found to be unnecessary to the purposes contemplated by the Bill, and which he had already explained.
 Colonel Thompson  said, if he had rightly understood the Attorney-General to say, that a pamphlet was only a "sewed paper" ( pan filé
 Mr. Wakley  must insist upon dividing upon his amendment.
 Mr. Wakley  declared that the Committee had declared that a pamphlet was a newspaper [ "No,no!" O'Connell:
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it should be recollected that provision was to be made for the free transmission by post of newspapers and pamphlets, and for facilitating in many ways the means of communication. It would be very incorrect to say that a pamphlet  per se
 Mr. Wakley  hoped every hon. Member would recollect the interpretation which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had put upon this clause, as it might become highly important on some future occasion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad to have the question which arose out of this clause brought under the attention
 117
 Dr. Bowring  thought that the penalties imposed by this clause were very disproportioned; for the printer or publisher was only compelled to pay a fine of 20 l. l.
 Colonel Thompson  said, the direction that whenever a supplement to a newspaper was published, words indicating the publishing of the supplement should be
 118
 The Attorney-General  pointed out the fact that these penalties could only be put in force by the Attorney-General, and not on the information afforded by a common informer.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he did not hesitate to comply with the suggestion which had been thrown out by the hon. Member for Kilmarnock to reduce the second penalty provided by the clause from 50 l. l.
 Mr. Wakley proposed , that before the words "printer or publisher," in this clause, the word "proprietor" should be inserted. He did not see why the proprietor of a paper should be free from those liabilities to which the printer and publisher were subjected by this clause. He believed that it would be difficult, under this Bill, to get a printer or publisher to incur those responsibilities from which those who employed him were exempted. But the fact which accounted for the terms of the clause as it at present stood was this—that it was drawn up by the proprietors of the stamped press of the metropolis, and that the right hon. Gentleman knew nothing of it until it was put into his hands.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was most anxious to apprise the hon. Member for Finsbury, as well as the House and the public, of the mistake into which the hon. Gentleman had fallen, when he expressed his belief that this measure was proposed by the proprietors of the stamped press, and that the Government knew nothing of it until it was placed in their hands by the parties to whom he had alluded. He was prepared to state, as a matter of fact, coming within his own knowledge, and as such entitled, he hoped, to credence, that there was no foundation whatever for such an assertion.
 119
 Sir George Grey  was understood to say, that he had heard that his right hon. Friend intended, where the proprietors of a paper were numerous, they should be represented at the stamp-office by two of the body.
 Mr. C. Buller  wished to know why the names of the proprietors should not be known? If they were, they would take care not to leave the business of their paper to the control and superintendence of worthless agents. Why should not, he repeated, the proprietors be known, in order that they should, if the manner in which the paper was conducted deserved it, be held up to public esteem; and if it did not deserve it, and that it was made subservient to malicious motives, or to the purposes of slander, that they should be held up to public infamy. He would go farther, and say that if the proprietors were not known they should not be entitled to recover for their property.
 Dr. Bowring  suggested the impracticability of adopting such a suggestion as that which had been given. How could it be possibly acted upon in case the proprietors amounted to a thousand persons?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was quite willing to acknowledge the justness of the arguments of the hon. Member for Liskeard in favour of every fair degree of notoriety being given to the proprietors of newspapers. But the difficulty which he felt upon this question was that which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, namely, that which arose from a number of proprietors to one concern. He should, however, have no objection to have the names of the persons originally engaged in the proprietorship before the paper started inserted at the Stamp-office. But he feared, that if it were required upon all transfers of shares to have due notice given, such a provision would render the application of capital to the extension of newspapers almost wholly
 120
 Mr. Pryme  thought the proposition of the hon. Member for Liskeard would in practice amount to an additional restriction upon the press. By the clause as it stood the public had sufficient protection in the registration of the printer, publisher, and two proprietors. He had stated that the proposition amounted to restriction, because many persons would withhold taking shares in newspaper speculations, inasmuch as they would not wish to make themselves liable to actions for libel. It was sufficient for the public to have two sufficient persons registered.
 Mr. Jervis  remarked, that in the case of joint-stock banks no difficulty arose as to registration, and contended that no person ought to be the proprietor of a newspaper, unless he was prepared to take his share of the responsibility for all that was published within its columns. Such a provision must, he submitted, tend to raise the character of a public journal.
 Mr. Pryme  submitted, that the course suggested would tend materially to deteriorate from the character of the newspaper press. Such a provision would prevent many persons from becoming proprietors, because they would be unwilling to be held responsible for all or any part of the publication to which they might be attached, and thus the control and conduct of newspapers would be thrown into the hands of less respectable individuals.
 Viscount Sandon  was of opinion, that it was contrary to the open character of all our customs and institutions that the proprietors of newspapers should not be known, and be made responsible for every act which they committed, to the same degree that they were in their individual capacity. It struck him that newspaper proprietors, in the same way as the Steam Companies and other companies, should be bound to register on every transfer of shares. He thought it not at all impracticable that the value of the property might be represented by a certain proportion of the proprietors.
 Dr. Bowring  would be glad to know by
 121
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was quite ready to assent to the principle of the proposition of the hon. Member for Liskeard, but as the question was one of some importance, he would suggest that the amendment should be deferred until a further stage, in order to allow time for the consideration of the best plan for obtaining the desired register. The only thing he should then stipulate for was, that in any arrangement to be hereafter agreed upon, no unnecessary checks should be imposed upon the transfer of the shares. It should not, for instance, be required that each transfer should be registered at the very time the change took place. His view was, and he only gave it as an impromptu, that there should be a quarterly or half-yearly register, and that it should not be requisite for a party transferring his shares to change such register until the arrival of the ensuing period. If they were to require each transfer to be placed upon the Stamp-office books on the day of its date, great inconvenience and expense would be imposed upon that department. The subject, however, was one for consideration at a future period, and he should reserve all further observations respecting it until it came more regularly under notice.
 Mr. Charles Buller  was of opinion, that in the event of a general registry of proprietors, which it was now probable would take place, it would be very desirable to constitute the Stamp-office registry conclusive evidence of title in newspaper property. If this were done, the trouble and expense of transfer deeds would be saved. Although the right hon. Gentleman had been tolerably explicit as to his views, he hoped he should be pardoned in asking him if it might go forth to the public that his suggestion had been adopted by the Government?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he entirely assented to the principle of the suggestion, but reserved for further consideration the machinery by which it should be carried into effect. Had he not been afraid that by proposing such a measure, he should have laid himself open to the charge of imposing greater restrictions on the press than his duty as Finance
 122
 Mr. Warburton  fully concurred in the proposition of the hon. Member for Liskeard, which he was glad to see so readily taken up by the Government. With respect to the machinery by which it should be carried into effect, he would reserve his opinion until the proper occasion for its expression. He hoped, however, that in its framing, care would be taken to prevent a proprietor from registering his name on the first of January, and then on the 2nd putting down the name of an irresponsible person. He thought the principle should be, that the party receiving the profits of the newspapers, should be made liable for its laches.
 Mr. Wakley  expressed his satisfaction at finding the Government favourable to the proposition of the hon. Member for Liskeard. He merely rose to suggest, that the Bill for the extension of the rights of copyright to newspaper publications would present a more fitting occasion for the introduction of the proposition than did the measure under consideration.
 Mr. Buckingham  suggested, that it should be made compulsory on each newspaper establishment to publish the names of its proprietary at stated periods in each year. It was his great wish to see the newspaper press of England edited for the most part by the parties in whom the property was vested.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that as newspaper copyright had been alluded to, he could not refrain from expressing his regret that the Bill under consideration did not contain provisions for securing it. It might have been, in his opinion, with great propriety introduced. If, however, that was deemed inexpedient, he trusted that no time would be lost in bringing forward a supplemental Bill. The subject of copyright was one of great importance to the newspaper interests, and should, if possible, be brought to an understanding during the present Session.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the subject of newspaper copyright was under consideration, and that, though it was one of some difficulty, he had every reason to hope it might form the subject of legislation during the present Session, He thought, however, it was requisite to have it in a Bill distinct from the present. They were then considering a measure of revenue, into which
 123
 Mr. Leader  was understood to complain of the publication of the stamp return, so long as it was impossible, through the defective arrangements of the Stamp-office, to give a correct idea of the circulation of each paper. He hoped that until better means for arriving at a correct conclusion were devised, no member would think of calling for a newspaper stamp return.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted, that under the present system of issuing stamps, the public had no means of forming a correct judgment as to the condition of each paper; but at the same time he doubted whether, as it was not necessary for the purposes of the revenue that it should be ascertained to what papers stamps were issued, it was in his power to propose a remedy for the evil. In a measure particularly relating to revenue he did not see the justice of imposing on parties against their will, any restriction to which they might object. He thought it was quite right to allow all parties who wished for distinctive stamps to have them; but he certainly should be going beyond his jurisdiction were he to make an attempt to compel those who were content with the present system to depart from it.
 Viscount Sandon  disagreed with the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He contended, that a distinctive stamp, if made voluntary, would not be productive of any good. The paper that did not adopt it would have an unfair advantage, as far as public impression went, over that which did. It was his opinion it should be made compulsory, or not at all attempted. In the
 124
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had always opposed the production of the Newspaper-Stamp Returns; in the first place, because he saw no Parliamentary grounds for calling for them; and secondly, from the knowledge that, under the present arrangement, they could not impart to the public any thing like a correct idea of the circulation of each newspaper. It was notorious that the present arrangement enabled one paper to take out stamps for several, and consequently to take credit to itself for a circulation considerably beyond its actual one. He hoped, however, that under the new arrangement this defect would be obviated. As regarded those papers which should adopt the distinctive stamp, it was evident the new system must prove effective; and as the Bill contained a clause prohibiting any editor or proprietor of a paper, under a heavy penalty, from procuring stamps except from the distributor of stamps at Somerset-house, he entertained great hopes that all future Returns would give very nearly, if not altogether, and for the first time, the correct circulation of each paper.
 Mr. Pryme  thought there was a very strong objection to the clause prohibiting editors of newspapers from procuring stamps except from the proper distributor. It often occurred that in consequence of an accidental mistake or omission, a paper had not in its office a sufficient number of stamps for a pressing publication, and was obliged to borrow of another establishment. It was well known that papers of different politics often so accommodated each other. Now if this custom were restrained, great injury might be done to property. He should, therefore, when the clause in question came under consideration, move that its operation should not extend to parties borrowing stamps for temporary convenience.
 Mr. Robinson  thought that the proposition of having all the names of proprietors and the transfer of shares registered was a very good one, but he considered that the cumbrous machinery for effecting this purpose was unnecessary, considering the
 125 "No, no." l.
 Mr. Wakley  put it to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was fair in this Bill, which purported to be a consolidation of old Acts, they should introduce provisions which were not to be found in any old Act—provisions more severe than had ever been proposed before. It was a most monstrous proposition that any person giving a description of his house, &c. which in any degree varied from the proper description, should be subjected to a penalty of 100l. He would move that the penalty be reduced to 10 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if they had not an exact description of the party's residence they would have nothing. There would be nothing to prevent a person printing a newspaper, and giving the residence of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He certainly must adhere to the amount of the penalty imposed by the clause as it stood.
 Mr. Wakley  objected to the penalties it imposed, as too severe.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it would be a delusion and a fraud on his part to ask the House to impose duties, if he did not also ask the House to give him power to collect those duties. It would be a fraud on his part if he did not by all means in his power endeavour to protect the fair trader, whilst at the same time he used every exertion to put down the unstamped press. The putting down of the unstamped press was the only condition on which he could call upon the proprietors of stamped newspapers to agree to this Bill; and for his own part he could not see any difference between the case of a man who sold smuggled whiskey, and the man who sold unstamped newspapers. They were both alike a fraud on the revenue and upon the fair trader. He did not think that the penalties were by any means too severe, as nothing but severity could put down this illegal traffic.
 Mr. Wakley  was glad to hear that it was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman to put down the unstamped press, but he thought that the existing law was quite strong enough for this purpose, if the right hon. Gentleman chose to carry it into effect. The Government was to blame for not enforcing the law when it was first violated, but the cause of their not doing so then was easily explained. Six years ago, agitation was very conve-
 127
 Dr. Bowring  wished to ask his Majesty's Government whether the struggle in which they were engaging with the unstamped press was worth their while? The clause was calculated to bring ruin upon hundreds of persons. He was happy to see that the revenue was at this moment in a very flourishing condition, and as they had been told that this was a fiscal question, and that in the then state of the revenue it was not possible for the Government to spare the whole of the duty upon newspapers, he thought that all they required was satisfactory evidence to show that the Government, from the improving state of the revenue, could grant this boon. He had never known a subject on which the feelings of the people were more excited. The people entreated that they might have free access to publications diffusing political knowledge; and he trusted the House would respond to the wish. As to the law,  salus populi
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 128 à propos à propos
 Mr. Wallace  was of opinion that it was much better to have a free circulation under a stamp. He was not prepared to say that we were in a condition to have a free postage and no stamp; when he saw we were in such a state, he should be pre-
 129
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that though he was on principle an advocate for removing all taxes from newspapers, and did not concur in thinking with the right hon. Gentleman that the free postage was an equivalent for the penny stamp, (for he thought that a farthing stamp would cover postage,) yet he accepted the boon of the right hon. Gentleman. This clause only gave the power to retain the revenue, and if a tax was to be raised, it was essential to provide a sufficient power to secure the tax, but not beyond that. The part of the clause which he objected to was that which enacted, that "if any person shall have in his possession, and without a satisfactory excuse (the proof whereof shall lie on the party accused), any newspaper not duly stamped," he shall forfeit 20 1.
 Mr. Pryme  said, he had had sent him copies of unstamped newspapers, and under this clause he might be sent to hard labour for a month. Would it not be sufficient to impose a penalty on the sale or disposal or distribution of the papers?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it would be impossible to collect any fiscal revenue if the Government had not the power of seizing the smuggled articles, whether in the possession of the smuggler or in the possession of any person to whom he might have transferred them. He begged to ask whether any hon. Gentleman believed the law could be enforced
 130
 Mr. Jervis  observed, that under the new law an alarming power was given to constables and peace-officers, too great a power than ought to be given for the mere collection of the revenue. It was taken from a law which was not a law of England, but an Irish Act.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, this clause would give a greater power than was possessed for the collection of the revenue when the duty was four times as high as it was now. Every person ought to be supposed innocent till guilt was proved; but the effect of this clause would be to put the person accused to the proof of his innocence. It might be said that there were some instances of fiscal laws having a similar effect, but there was this distinction between the present case and those referred to—the illegal possession of spirits or tobacco was established by showing that the one was held without a licence, but what guilt could there be in merely having possession of a printed paper? Persons might have unstamped papers in their possession without a guilty knowledge. It was believed out of doors that this Bill was meant to be a gagging Bill; he did not believe that, but he trusted it would not be persevered in, so objectionable as it was felt to be. It was impossible for any one to vote for the clause without feeling that he was voting for that which would violate every principle of justice.
 Mr. Villiers  urged on the right hon. Gentleman the consideration, that when laws ran counter to the public feeling they became a dead letter. The proposed law was opposed to the feeling of the country; it was considered that its object was rather to suppress intelligence than to facilitate the collection of the revenue. It would expose the poor man to great hazard, inasmuch as he might be violating the law without knowing that he was doing so. Any one might go and place in the poor man's cottage an unstamped paper, and thus render him liable to a heavy penalty. When a law was capable of so much mischief, the people would be very scrupulous in applying it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had looked at the clause in the original Act now before him, which provided that a person having in his possession a newspaper not duly stamped was subject, as in this Bill, to a 20 l. 131
 Mr. Jervis  asked, whether the power was to be retained which the Bill gave to peace-officers?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the proposed Bill was a limitation of the present Act in that respect. The five hundred cases of prosecution of which there was a return before the House, were not at the instance of the law-officers, but at the instance of common informers.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that there were preparations already made for evading this law. He had seen the prospectus of an unstamped daily paper, to be conducted by a Member of that House. The same course, therefore, was to be pursued under the new system, and the Government were to be forced to abandon this duty as they had the former. He thought that Government should be exonerated from the charge of improper motive in this clause, which was necessary, in order to protect the revenue. It would have been better if they had gone to the fountain head, and not punished persons in humble life, who had no other way of gaining a living, and suffered persons in higher rank to pass with impunity.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the effect of the clause, as he proposed to alter it, would be, as far as regarded persons having unstamped papers in their possession, to leave the law as he found it. He proposed to take the words in the statute of 38th George 3rd; those words were "knowingly and wilfully;" and he proposed further to omit the words to which objection had been made. This would throw the onus of proving the offence on the party making the charge.
 Colonel Thompson  said, there were provisions in a future clause (233) directly
 132
 Mr. Aglionhy  suggested the addition to the words "knowingly and wilfully, of the words," without sufficient excuse."
 The Attorney-General  observed that "knowingly" was to be interpreted persons taking the paper knowing that it was not stamped, and "wilfully" with an intention to violate the law. The clause, as amended, was agreed to.
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to fill up the blanks, by enacting that the poll should open at eight o'clock and close at five.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the system of reducing the days of polling in counties to two, had worked exceedingly well, and it was considered that by affording additional polling places, and greater facilities for taking the votes than at present existed, that the elections could be as easily accomplished in one day as they had been in two. He could not help thinking it an object of great importance that the Poll should be taken in one day, for he was persuaded that if two days were allowed much greater expense would be incurred, and greater opportunities given for corrupt practices to be carried on and undue influence exercised. It was an object which in his opinion might easily be accomplished: a clause of the same nature as this had been proposed in Committee on the Registration Bill by his noble Friend the Member for Devon, which had been much approved of by the House, and no difficulty was apprehended in carrying that into effect. The objections urged against this clause by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, were objections which must, and indeed were urged, with equal force against the alteration of the time from fifteen days to two. As to the objection urged by the right hon. Gentleman, that it would have the effect of disfranchising a class of voters who had property for which they would be entitled to possess the franchise in different counties,—that a person for instance possessing the franchise in Devon could not, if the time for taking the poll were limited to one day, give his vote for property situated in Yorkshire, which he might do if the time were extended to two or three days, he, (Lord J. Russell) thought it hardly possible that Parliament should legislate for such extreme cases.
 Lord John Russell  was aware that the right hon. Gentleman took a great deal of interest in questions of this nature, but he believed that the right hon. Gentleman was not present in the House during a very long discussion which took place recently upon that question. The general sense of the House was, that personal tithes were very oppressive, that it was difficult to collect them, and that they ought not to be suffered to remain any longer. On the other hand, it had been stated that the clergy were not much interested in them. He had no objection to introduce a preamble to this effect "whereas it is expedient that personal tithes should be abolished," and so on.
 Mr. Hawes  was gratified in hearing the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tam-worth, declare his intention to oppose the Bill on principle, as it involved many difficulties, and was calculated to be very injurious in its tendency.
 Mr. Forster  could assure the noble Lord that he knew of more cases than one in which by limiting the poll to one day large bodies of electors would be disfranchised,—especially in the case of a
 107
 Mr. Charles Lushington  was deeply sensible of the indecorousness of intruding upon the public business, matters which related to himself, but he hoped the House would allow him to make some explanations in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Berkshire, in vindication of the Emigration Committee. The hon. Member had said, that the placard which he had alluded to was unjustifiable and indecent. Before going further, he (Mr. Lushington) would premise that he had
 103 "I was anxious to say to you, as I saw your name on the Female Emigration Committee, that we had had the ship  Canton, 104
 Mr. Baines  would merely give the House the result of his own experience in the working of the present system in the largest electorial division of the kingdom. He could state, from his own knowledge, that the East Riding of Yorkshire, in which there were at the last election 18,000 voters, and he believed there would be 28,000 at the next, the polling was carried on with the greatest ease in two days, and he believed that, by the additional facilities afforded by this Bill, the polling could as easily have been taken in one day as two.
 Mr. Robinson  said, his constituents took a deep interest in the question, and without entering upon its merits, he would merely observe, that all they wanted to know was, what the intentions of the Government were. It was rather extraordinary, that upon a question of such importance the Government had not made up their minds; the consequence of which was, that a large amount of capital was paralysed, and extensive operations, in which the public were deeply interested, suspended.
 Mr. Goring  could confirm what was stated by the hon. Member for Leeds, as
 110
 Mr. Goring  thought it right to state with respect to Cholesbury, that a large sum of money had been expended in the purchase of land, and furnishing the means of cultivation. He should be able to prove that the society had not been altogether unsuccessful.
 Mr. Labouchere  explained. The hon. Member misunderstood him if he supposed that he (Mr. Labouchere) had stated that the Government had not made up their minds. He was satisfied that when the Bill was before the House, the Government would be prepared to state what course it meant to pursue; but he could not take upon himself to state what that would be in the absence of his right hon. Friend.
 Mr. Labouchere  believed it to be the intention of the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Morrison) to persevere with his Bill; but in the absence of his right hon. Friend, he was not prepared to say what course the Government would take, on a question which was one of considerable difficulty.
 The Speaker  asked who seconded the motion?
 Mr. Fielden  presented a petition from several places praying for a Ten-hours' Factory Bill.
 Mr. Walter  said, it was not with any view essentially to delay the proceedings on the Order of the Day, that he rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, but merely to insure that attention to it which it might otherwise fail of obtaining. He had been waiting for the opportunity which he thought the notice given several weeks ago by the Under Secretary for the Colonies would have afforded him to bring this subject under the notice of the House. He had attended on numerous occasions when the hon. Baronet's notice stood among the orders of the day, but had constantly been disappointed. He would now shortly recapitulate what he stated the other night, that very unjustifiable means had been taken—at least under the semblance of authority—to promote female emigration. All the postmasters in the kingdom had been directed to place placards in the most conspicuous parts of their offices, and to distribute copies among the clergy and parochial authorities, urging young women, with what he should call indecent and improper incitements, to quit their homes. The placard stated, that His Majesty's Government, in order to encourage the emigration of single women and widows of good character to Van Dieman's Land, where the number of females, as compared with the entire population, is greatly deficient, and where all who may conduct themselves with discretion and industry, may calculate in time importantly to benefit their condition, has authorised the Emigration Committee to grant a free passage to such single females, between fifteen and thirty years of age, as the Committee may ascertain to be likely to conduct themselves creditably and usefully in the colonies. The placard went on to say, "that a large proportion of those who had already gone out had married respectable settlers; and altogether the information received of the results of emigration to young women of discreet conduct, clearly demonstrated that all such had importantly benefited their condition by proceeding to this healthy and prosperous colony." Now he should be able, before he sat down, to show, that if this placard did not assert a series of untruths, as he verily believed it did, it at
 97 C. Lushington Order 98 "That they are particularly anxious to call attention to the practice of sending out to that colony very young girls from the workhouses, schools of industry, or reform, or other charitable institutions. They have experienced the most painful solicitude respecting many of those who have arrived in every ship with female emigrants; and although they have exercised their best care, yet it is lamentable to observe the number of those young girls who have deviated from the paths of virtue. The Committee make this representation from the great difficulty they have always found in procuring situations, in respectable families, for girls from fourteen to sixteen years of age. Few persons are willing to take them as servants; and it has frequently happened, that after having been placed by the Committee in a situation where they would be taken care of, many have quitted those situations and sought a home with abandoned and depraved characters, of whom there are many in this town willing to receive them. The Committee would therefore most earnestly hope that, in future, none under seventeen or eighteen years of age might be induced, by any assistance from the Government, to emigrate to this colony, where the first lesson they learn is that they are free, and subject to no control but such as they are willing to submit to. The Committee are desirous to urge this point very strongly for the serious consideration of the Government, both as it affects the welfare of the young emigrants themselves, and also for the sake of the best interests of the community, which cannot be better served than in promoting the advancement of religion and virtue, and preventing the increase of immorality and crime." 99 C. Lushington "The females which have come to us by the present opportunity, are of unusually tender years to be thus launched upon the world. Contrary to the stipulation, many of them are under fifteen; and about thirty, we learn, under twelve or fourteen, will require to be kept like our own orphans, and reared and educated for some years at the public expense, until fit for service. A person of common sense, whether male or female, will naturally ask these urgers of forced emigration—' If it be so fine a thing, how comes it, gentlemen, that you are not gone?' Example is better than precept—is much better than persuasion based on so rotten grounds. But no; in default of this natural and obvious inducement, flattering pictures, delusive statements, and advertisements of all kinds (paid for, of course, out of our poor acres) are disseminated in all quarters. Most sincerely do we wish that their condition may be ameliorated, though with all the welcome, the disinterested and benevolent intentions, for which the inhabitants of this place are proverbial, much disappointment must ensue. When we find that the heads of these young females are filled with such notions as that 'Van Dieman's Land is a splendid little spot, filled with pretty white cottages, each with single men, of all ranks and callings, waiting for wives,' we cannot hold scathless the authors of such delusion, seeing it is used to induce them to accept it in place of home, and all those ties which, in a female breast in particular, are at once so delicate and binding." 100 101
 Mr. Walter , in explanation, said, that the extracts which he had read were from the official paper, he believed, of the Government at Hobart-town, and from the documents laid on the Table by the Colonial-office. As to the denial of the affair at Cholesbury, given by the hon. Member for Shoreham, he could only repeat, that there bad not been a rood
 105
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the Report on the Church of Ireland Bill.
 Mr. Potter  said, he had a petition, to which he begged the attention of the House whilst he shortly stated its allegation. It was from a gentleman of the name of Robert Mortimer, a highly respectable solicitor, of Barnstaple, in the county of Devon. The prayer of the petition was for an alteration in the Act of the 5th of George 4th relating to vagrants, and that the House might alter that Act, and remove from it those vague and ambiguous clauses which relate to vagrancy. The petition stated that two boys (brothers), named Callaghan, one aged thirteen and the other only eight years old, were singing duets in a very superior style in the
 90 91
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  believed that it was in consequence of a motion that he had brought forward that the House came to the determination that personal tithes should be abolished; and it was in consequence of that determination that the noble Lord had introduced the Bill in question. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) seemed to ask what reason there was for the abolition of this tithe? He would answer, the reason was, that the cause of humanity demanded it. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman in what parishes did personal tithes form the greater part of the property of the incumbents? On the evening he brought forward his motion, he stated to the House, that he could find only one case in which the tithe was demanded;—that was the case of a parish in Yorkshire, the clergyman of which endeavoured to obtain 4 s. d.
 Mr. Wakley : I second the motion.
 Sir Charles Knightley  asked, if 6,000 voters could poll between eight and five on one day?
 Sir Charles Knightley  observed, that in winter it was often dark at half past three. He should object to the clause even as amended.
 Sir George Grey  said, it was not his intention to travel through the whole of the observations of the hon. Member for Berkshire, who, he thought, had pursued a very extraordinary course. The hon. Member had found a certain placard exhibited in the window of some post-office at a distance from London, offering to the notice of young persons the advantages of emigration. Now, it would not be necessary for him (Sir G. Grey) to say more than what he had said on a former occasion—that these circulars had been issued without the authority of the Government. Whatever might be the sources from which the hon. Member had drawn his information, he trusted that the people of England would not take their idea of the advantages or disadvantages of emigration, from the picture which he had drawn with the assistance of anonymous paragraphs from Hobàrt-town newspapers The hon. Member was mistaken in saying that people were torn from their families and sent to remote colonies; the fact was, that the emigration of these females was voluntary. He believed that the Committee which had conducted the business of emigration, had done so ably and prudently. He was speaking in the presence of two or three Gentlemen of that Committee, and he believed the measures which had been adopted had been productive of much good in the colonies. He would recommend the hon. Member for Berkshire to examine the Reports and authorised documents which were laid upon the table of that House, instead of collecting his information from newspapers. Considering the great number of females which went out, it was not to be wondered at if some turned out badly. The subject, however, had been taken up in the proper quarter, namely, by the colonists themselves. He could only hope that the statements of the hon. Member would be received with caution.
 Mr. Mark Philips  agreed with the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), and hoped the discussion would take place as early as possible, so that the public might know how to employ their capital. A great deal of capital was laid out in canals; and upon inquiry, it would be found that no inordinate profit had arisen from them.
 Mr. Mark Philips  availed himself of that opportunity to correct a mistake into which a right reverend Prelate had fallen, when he stated, that 8,000 deserted children had been found in the streets of Manchester, which was attributed to the factory system. The truth was, that all children found straying in the streets of Manchester were taken care of by the police, the number was a proof of its vigilance, not of the evils of the factory system. Of the 8,000 so called deserted children not ten had been, as described by a right rev. Prelate in another place, abandoned. The rest had merely strayed from their homes, and by the assistance of the police had been restored to their parents. He considered it his duty to allude to this subject in consequence of having received communications on the subject, more particularly as such a statement was calculated to do much injury. It was also asserted, that the poor-rates of that place were extremely high, which indicated distress among the inhabitants; so far from it, the poor-rates were never known to be lower, amounting to only one shilling and four pence in the pound. It would be very desirable if those who were disposed to acquire correct information on these subjects would have the kindness to proceed to the manufacturing districts and judge for themselves, instead of giving currency to misstatements.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that perhaps the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland would permit him to put a question to him relating to certain alterations which he perceived had been made in this Bill, and which were, as far as he understood them, of considerable importance, inasmuch as they affected the question of the surplus, after supplying the wants of the Irish Church. He understood, that the alterations went to raise the  minimum l l., l l
 The Attorney-General  said, he believed that the only personal tithe that would be abolished by the Bill, was tithe on labour. There could be no doubt that tithe on labour could be legally enforced, but to the honour of the clergy, there had been no case of their being exacted for very many years. With regard to the preamble, he believed that this was not the first Bill that had been introduced without a preamble, though such instances had but seldom occurred. He was anxious to see this Bill passed into a law, for the purpose of delivering the Church of England from a source of much inconvenience and odium.
 Sir Robert Peel : It might be true that when only two days were allowed in practice, the greatest number of votes were polled on the first day, but it did not necessarily follow that the elections should be limited to one day; for it was not quite
 108
 Sir Robert Peel  presented a petition from the proprietors of shares in the Birmingham and Derby Railway, against the Bill before the House, for the regulation of tolls on railways. He regretted, not to see the hon. Gentleman
 92
 Viscount Howick  could not help thinking that the right hon. Baronet never had the misfortune to stand for a county, or he would not have said that there was no valid reason for this change. He Lord Howick was convinced that limiting the poll to one day would make a great difference in the amount of expenses, at present very large indeed. But the right hon. Baronet objected, that it would lead to partial inconveniences and he (Lord Howick) was ready to confess that it might be possible to imagine cases in which such inconveniences might arise. But he did not believe they would be found arising to any extent. As to intimidation, he (Lord Howick) believed that in county elections intimidation was of infinitely more rare occurrence than in towns. [ No! no! 109
 Viscount Morpeth  replied, that in order that the nature of the alterations might be clearly known, he intended to move that the Bill be reprinted before the third reading. He had certainly introduced the alterations to which the right hon. Baronet had adverted. One of them was that of increasing the minimum; but as his calculations had been formed upon the maximum, it would make no difference in the result, As to the glebe lands, he was
 94
 Mr. Thomas Dvncombe  presented a petition from two individuals resident in Bunhillrow, City, who were proprietors of a patent that had been granted to an individual of the name of Williams, in 1833, for the manufacture of an article to be substituted in many cases for paper and leather. They stated that at the time the patent was granted the Excise Board had reported that the article in question could never be considered paper, and that it would not be liable to paper duty—that they (the petitioners) had laid out a capital of 10,000 l.
 Mr. Warburton  objected to it. He thought that the Ballast Board of Dublin, the Commissioners of Northern Lights, and the Trinity House, ought all to be placed under the control of a Central Board, that Board being under the superintendence of the Admiralty. His second objection was, that the Trinity Board was to have a control over the other Boards as to the mode in which the lights were to be used. He remarked that the members of the Trinity-board received 6,000 l. l. 140
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the object of the amendment was to put an end to the powers now possessed by the Trinity House. The Trinity House, however, enjoyed certain powers over the whole lighthouses of the kingdom nearly. Those rights they held under various Charters and Acts of Parliament; and his hon. Friend would deprive that body of the powers which they had exercised, he must be permitted to say, so properly and advantageously for the country; and he sought not merely to alter the Bill, the object of which was to give the Trinity House Corporation additional powers, but he, at the same time, suggested various grievances, as against the constitution of the Trinity Board. Now he would ask whether the plan which had been suggested, would afford a remedy for those grievances. His hon. Friend complained of the constitution of the Board, of the salaries of its officers, and of the whole conduct of the Trinity House; and he had said that from their past conduct he was not inclined to vest further powers in that body. The redress which his hon. Friend proposed, would not remedy the defects in its constitution; but he would have another Board for the supervision of that of the Trinity House. Now the supervision of the Admiralty would not change the constitution of the Board. If his hon. Friend had referred to the Report of the Committee, which sat on this subject in the year 1822, he would have found that they recommended that the Trinity House should be continued in possession of the powers which were confided to it. That Select Committee recommended, that the general public lights should be placed under the Trinity House. This was more than the present Bill meant to do. The question of substituting the authority of the Admiralty, was one which was discussed before that Committee, who came to the decision, without a division, that the Trinity Board was the best Board to which those interests should be deputed. Surely, then, it would be absurd, after the two
 141
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was understood to say, that as to the Board of Northern
 142 l.
 Mr. George F. Young  confirmed the statement made by the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade with reference to the good management of the Trinity House. He (Mr. Young) did not defend the self-elected constitution of that Board; but the Committee had decided, that no better constitution could upon the whole be devised by them, and the hon. Member for Brid-port had not favoured the House with any plan on this subject. He cordially concurred with the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, in the importance of confining the Board to merchant seamen officers. He was, moreover, perfectly certain that the constitution of that Board was every day improving. He objected to any proposal for interference on the part of the Crown, recollecting under what circumstances four lights had been renewed some years ago, to which he would not trust himself to refer further. The Trinity Board had not the power to erect a light except upon application from those connected with maritime commerce. He thought it would be impossible to have the
 143
 Sir Edward Codrington  did not think it fair that naval officers should not be allowed to take their seats on this lighthouse Board. It was true they were excluded by the resolution of the Committee; but there was a compromise which included that resolution. He (Sir E. Codrington) agreed that the constitution of the Trinity Board might be so far right, that a majority of its members should be merchant seamen. But he must say, that in his opinion masters, lieutenants, captains, &c, in the navy were as able to decide where buoys and lights might be most properly placed, as any merchant officers. Indeed, more so; for it was much more their profession than it was that of gentlemen in the merchant service. He considered the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, as a very mercantile speech altogether, [ laughter,
 Mr. Robinson  thought the only question for the House to decide was, whether under the Bill proposed by the Government, the object proposed to be attained —a good system of lighting, would be better attained than under the amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport. And with all the respect which he (Mr. Robinson) entertained for that hon. Member's scientific knowledge, he felt himself compelled to say, that he must support, not his proposal, but the Bill as framed by the Government. The hon. Member for Bridport had argued this question as though all the lights in the country were to be placed under the absolute control of the Trinity Board. That was not the fact. The Ballast Board of Ireland, and the Commissioners of Northern Lights in Scotland, were to suggest where they consider new lights may be advantageously placed, or in what manner alterations may be effected in the old ones, and it was only provided that they should not have the power of either erecting or altering until the Trinity Board's concurrence had been given. That was in his opinion a very wise provision; but then let it be remembered, that it was combined with an appeal to the Privy Council; and thus you would have first, the local experience of the two Boards he bad mentioned; then the practical know-
 144
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the Committee, consisting of forty-seven Members, only seven of whom were what were called Conservative, had reported unanimously in favour of the present constitution of the Trinity Board. The question had been asked why the lighthouses were not given over to the charge of the Admiralty? he would reply by referring to the case of France, where the first act of the Convention was to put the lighthouses under the department of the marine, an arrangement, however, which had very soon been practically abandoned. He begged to refer to the Report of the Committee, to show that the Trinity Board had proceeded with regularity in the improvement of the system under their superintendence; and he must express his conviction, that if any new schemes could be devised for its further improvement, and for the further introduction of economy into it, there was no public department which would be found more inclined to adopt them, if practicable, than that Board. He could not conceive a greater encouragement to the mercantile marine of the country than to give to its members, on their retirement from that service, these distinctions. But he did not rest his defence of the constitution of the Trinity Board on that narrow ground, but on this higher ground, that it was on the whole the best authority to which the management of lighthouses could be committed. Lieutenant Drummond, in his evidence before the Select Committee, declared, that in every case of experiment the business was conducted in the fairest and most agreeable manner, and with every facility to the parties engaged. He did not think that there would be a higher testimony in favour of the Trinity Board than that afforded by this gentleman. This gentleman, however, suggested for the im-
 145
 Mr. Hawes  said, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had not touched the proposition of the hon. Member for Bridport; but had confined himself to the constitution of the Trinity Board. It was no part of the proposition of the hon. Member to alter that constitution. The hon. Member for Tamworth indeed said, he did not approve of the Board being self-elected. But the hon. Member for Bridport only said, "I do not wish to alter the constitution of the Board at all: I leave it as it is—I leave it in possession of all the "collateral advantages" of which the right hon. Baronet opposite spoke." All the objections, then, to that proposition, which had been urged on the ground of any alteration in the constitution of the Board, fell to the ground. The real question was, how would the public service be best conducted? And certainly, looking back to the past, he (Mr. Hawes) did not think the Trinity Board entitled to unmixed praise. All that the hon. Member for Bridport proposed was, to place this and the two other Boards under the super intendance of the Admiralty. No arguments had been urged against that proposal, and he (Mr. Hawes) should support it to a division.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  said, the amendment of the hon. Member for Bridport went to take away from the Trinity Board its duties; and as a Member of the Legislature, he (Mr. Chapman) objected to such a proposition: he contended, that the acts
 146
 Mr. Wallace  supported the proposition of the hon. Member for Bridport, on the ground that it was not expedient to place such a degree of control as that which was proposed in the hands of a self-elected Board like that of the Trinity Board.
 Mr. Ewart  supported the proposition of the hon. Member for Bridport, on the ground that it would bring the lighthouses of the country under the control of a body which would be subject to greater responsibility than at present existed. It was idle to suppose, that a body such as the Trinity Board constituted out of the House, having no representatives in the House, could be so responsible as the Admiralty. He did not see that there was any force whatever in the argument of the hon. Member for Whitby, that the Board of Admiralty could not attend to the business of the Trinity Board without neglecting its own. Surely, the Board of Admiralty might superintend and supervise the business in the same way as the Home Department exercised a control over departments the particular business of which was not conducted by it.
 Sir J. Graham  bore his testimony to the perfect satisfaction given by the mode in which business was conducted between the Admiralty Board, and the Trinity Board. He gave his cordial assent to the measure.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was perfectly true that he concurred in the Report which had been made by the Committee which sat upon this subject; because, when he found it impossible to carry his proposition for placing the three Boards under one body, which should be under the control of the Admiralty Board, and through the latter responsible to that House, he consented to the power given to the Trinity Board, after the Deputy master had come forward in an open and unconstrained manner, and declared the intention of the body to have some alterations in its constitution, which he, for one, considered essentially necessary. Whilst, therefore, he agreed in the principles on which his hon. Friend's proposition was founded, and expressed his conviction of its being ulti-
 147
 Sir Charles Adam  was clearly of opinion, that the principle of centralization which this Bill was framed to enforce was necessary; but he could not see the propriety of placing under the control of the Admiralty establishments which were supported by a tax on the maritime community.
 Sir L. Parry  bore his testimony to the satisfaction given at present in his country (Wales we suppose), at the manner in which the lighting at least was conducted under the Trinity Board.
 Mr. Warburton  felt bound to press his proposal to a division.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that all the information which he had been able to obtain upon the subject induced and justified him in opposing the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex. There had been no complaint whatever made by the shipping interest against the payment of the pensions in question, nor was there the slightest suspicion of any favoritism or misapplication of the money. The number of persons who benefitted by these pensions was 8,557, and the aggregate amount of the pensions was only 23,000 l.
 Mr. Wallace  objected, not to the charity, but to the manner in which the money was raised. If the hon. Member for Middlesex divided, he would, as a matter of principle, divide with him.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  concurred in the opinions which had been expressed by the President of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. George F. Young  called the attention of Members to the charter of the Trinity House, by which it appeared that they were authorised and directed to distribute their surplus in the charitable manner they did at present. He referred to the late manifestation of opinion at Greenock, on a question that arose in favour of those pensions, and also to the unanimous approbation declared at the town which he represented (North Shields), which, in commercial importance, was entitled to great consideration, as equal to Liverpool, and only inferior to London.
 Mr. Hume  objected to these pensions being paid out of the shipping rates. He knew a parish in Yorkshire from which a single ship had never sailed, and where, notwithstanding, there were ninety-five pensioners, he had no objection that private individuals should subscribe to this purpose if they chose to do so. All he asked was, that they should act on the recommendation of the Committee of 1824.
 Mr. Maxwell  begged to be permitted to move the second reading of the Hand-loom Weavers' Bill.
 Lord John Russell  could not consent to the motion,
 Mr. Maxwell  must then move as an amendment, that the order of the day for the second reading of the Hand-loom Weavers' Bill be read.
 Mr. Jervis  rose to make the motion of which he had given notice relative to the principality of Wales. It was notorious to every one who knew anything of that part of the country, that dissent had very much increased of late years; and he (Mr. Jervis) believed that that increase was mainly owing to the fact that the great majority of the clergymen and dignitaries of the Church in that district were Englishmen, and consequently alien in blood, in manners and in language from the great bulk of the population. To show that he was not without some foundation for this belief; he would beg the House to attend to the following short statement. In the seventeenth century, during a period of forty years, the Diocese of St. Asaph was occupied by four Welchmen; for a like period in the last century the same see was filled by four Englishmen. Let the House mark the different results which followed in the two cases. In the first period, one of the Bishops translated the Bible,—another the Testament into Welsh, and the other two were prelates of great learning and piety. In the second interval, one bishop was appointed because he had been tutor to a nobleman; and another was non-resident. During the earlier period, the population were converted from popery to Protestantism; during the later period, they were
 151 152
 Sir Love Parry  most cordially seconded the motion, he thought the House bound either to assent to that motion, or to establish a general system of education to teach the Welsh the English language.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, before the House required it as an absolute condition of induction into any living or see in Wales that the clergyman or ecclesiastical dignitary should be acquainted with the Welsh language, they should be quite certain that the proportion of those who did not understand the English language was sufficient to justify such an enactment — which would so restrict the choice of persons best qualified for discharging the duties of the pastoral office in Wales.
 Sir Love Parry  could assure the House there were immense masses of population, in Radnorshire, Brecknockshire, Caernarvonshire, &c, who could not understand a word of the English language.
 Mr. Hume  said, that having presented several petitions from Wales on this subject, praying for such an enactment as that proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Chester, he should feel it his duty to support that proposal to the utmost of his power. At all events he agreed with the hon. seconder, that the House was bound either to make the proposed enactment, or to establish schools throughout Wales, to instruct the inhabitants in the English language.
 Mr. Buckingham  supported the motion. He could bear testimony to the fact, that the English Church suffered much in Wales for want of pastors who understood the language of the people.
 Mr. Wynn  said, it seemed to be assumed that Clergymen in Wales were, generally ignorant of the Welsh language; and that the
 153
 Lord John Russell  was not disposed to vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Chester. His chief objection to it was, that it would in his opinion tend to widen the separation between the two countries. It was undoubtedly desirable that parishes in which the Welsh language prevailed, Welsh clergymen should be appointed; and he was not aware that under the present system such was not the case in the majority of instances. But to enact positively that no person who did not understand the Welsh language should be presented to any living or benefice in Wales, he (Lord John Russell) believed would draw a line of separation between the Welsh clergy and the English clergy, which he for one did not desire should be drawn. If this motion were carried, what should prevent the same principles being extended to the case of Judges going upon Welsh circuits. Indeed the argument was stronger in that case, than in the case of a Bishop. And so the argument might be carried through a variety of other cases,—thus gradually widening the separation between the countries which all must wish to see removed. He (Loyd John Russell) was much more inclined to accede to the latter alternative of the hon. Baronet who seconded the Motion, and educate the Welsh in the English language, than to agree to the proposal of the hon. Member for Chester.
 Lord Robert Grosvenor  said, that though he did not feel it necessary to go as far as the hon. Member for Chester, he was favourable to his motion to a certain extent, because he believed the
 154
 Mr. Paget  thought no measure would so much tend to promote the success of the Church of England and Wales, as the proposition of the hon. Member for Chester, and he would give it his cordial support.
 Lord Granville Somerset  thought, that the best remedy for the evil complained of by the hon. and learned Member for Chester, was in the exercise of a sound discretion, and not in the compulsory and absolute provision which he proposed to make, and which entirely precluded all discretion. There might be cases in which it would be inconvenient and improper to take the qualification he suggested as a test of the fitness or unfitness of a clergyman for a Welsh living, as well as cases in which it would be beneficial and proper so to do. There might be cases in which a bad Welshman, but a good clergyman, would be more desirable than an indifferent clergyman, though well versed in the Welsh language. He (Lord G. Somerset) agreed with the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, that it was exceedingly undesirable to keep up any such distinction in religious matters which might widen the separation between the two countries, as this motion would produce. Altogether, he had rather, as he said, that the remedy should be sought in the exercise of a sound discretion than in any legislative enactment.
 Mr. Rice Trevor  believed the great increase of dissent in Wales, was entirely owing to the absence of a sufficient number of clergymen acquainted with the Welsh language. And he thought it a very desirable provision which was proposed by the hon. Member for Chester. As to what had been said about its tending to widen the separation between the countries, if he (Mr. Trevor) thought it would have that effect, he certainly would not support it. But he did not think it at all likely that
 155
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that agreeing as he did in the principle advocated by the hon. Member for Chester, and believing that the majority of the House conceded to that principle, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not divide the House upon his motion, because, as there appeared to be certain difficulties apprehended in the way of carrying his object into effect in the manner which he suggested, a wrong construction might be put upon the feeling and opinion of the House; and it might be supposed that the House did not agree in the principle of the hon. Gentleman, because they did not accede to his proposition: although he (Sir Robert Peel) could not go along with the hon. Gentleman in making it an absolute condition upon induction into a living or see in Wales, that the person inducted should be conversant with the Welsh language, he cordially agreed that the object he wished to attain was a very desirable one. He (Sir Robert Peel) owned that he was not influenced in his opinion upon this subject by being told that if this motion were carried, it would be impossible to resist another motion for extending its principle to the case of the Judges who went the Welsh circuits. He was not quite sure whether that would not be advantageous; and whether justice would not be much more satisfactorily administered, when the judge himself could understand the evidence of the witnesses directly from their own mouths, than when that evidence must be received through the medium of an interpreter. Neither could he agree with those who apprehended from this motion being carried, any tendency to widen the separation between the two countries. He believed it would have a contrary effect. Depend upon it
 156
 Mr. Jervis  explained, that he had no intention to make his clause compulsory, in the case even of a parish in which the bulk of the population did understand the English language. All he desired was, that the Commissioners should have the power of requiring that the clergyman should be conversant with the Welsh language, in cases in which his parishioners could speak that language. If the House adopted the principle of his instruction, there could be no difficulty in framing a clause which should meet both cases.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that there could be no doubt as to the desirableness of the object which the hon. Gentleman wished to attain; but he (Mr. Goulburn) would rather that, if possible, it should be attained without legislative enactment. That object might be secured in two ways: by taking care that persons intended for the ministry in Wales should be acquainted with the Welsh language, or by providing that persons acquainted with that language should be educated as divines. The hon. member for Chester seemed to prefer the former course. Now that method was sufficiently provided for at present. For there was at this moment in Wales, an university for the express purpose of educating young men intended for the ministry in Wales, in the Welsh language. This was in his (Mr. G.'S) opinion the best mode by which the evils the hon. Gentleman complained of could be removed—it furnished the
 157
 Mr. Guest  knew one parish in Wales, in which there was not one person who spoke English, and he certainly would support the motion.
 Mr. Chisholm  also approved of the proposal of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Chester. Nor could he see the distinction in this case between the bishops and parochial clergy.
 Mr. Jervis  withdrew his original proposition, and, after amending it moved: —"That it be an instruction to the Committee, that they have power to receive a clause, empowering the Commissioners to make regulations by which no clergyman, not fully conversant with the Welsh language, shall be appointed to any see in the principality, nor to any benefice in Wales, the inhabitants of which are not acquainted with the English, language."
 Lord John Russell  thought, that his hon. Friend was mistaken as to the effect of the Bill. When he addressed the House on the subject of this measure on a former occasion, he stated that there would be a sum of money derived from the bishoprics, as well as about 129,000 l. 160
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  stated, that the greatest apprehension had been excited in the diocese of Durham in consequence of the recommendations of the Commissioners, and the measures which had been brought forward founded on them. He contended that adequate attention had not been paid to the wants of the population of this large and important diocese.
 Mr. Harland  only rose for the purpose of stating, that there existed on this subject a very strong feeling in the Bishopric of Durham. A great portion of the reve-
 161
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that the proposal of his right hon. Friend would be quite satisfactory to the petitioners.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he wished to put a question to the hon. the Secretary of the Admiralty, not certainly on the subject of lighthouses, but in reference to maritime concerns, and therefore not entirely unconnected with that subject. It would be recollected that, some time ago he had called the attention of the House to the unhappy loss of two convict ships, which were wrecked on their voyage to New South Wales. It was the general understanding of the House that care should be taken in future to select seaworthy vessels for this service. Now, he understood that two ships, second-class ships, he believed, had been recently taken up for this purpose; the one, the  Marquess of Huntly, Bengal Merchant,
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the duty had hitherto been thirty per cent., but that the French Government had consented to reduce it to twenty per cent., which reduction had been confirmed by an ordinance, and by an Act passed in the late Session of the French Chambers. That was a reduction of ten per cent., which he supposed the hon. Gentleman would regard as a considerable one.
 Mr. Charles Wood  replied, that although it was quite true that two ships had been lost, neither in one case nor in the other had the catastrophe occurred in consequence of any want of seaworthiness in the vessels, one of which was lost in making a dangerous passage during the night, and the other in consequence of the neglect of the master, and his ignorance of the coast. It had been agreed that all ships taken up for the transport service, should be of the class ranked A 1; and he assured the right hon. Gentleman, that a strict survey was always made by the proper officer, and the Lords of the Admiralty did not feel themselves satisfied until they received the Report of that officer. Immediately after the discussion which took place on this subject on a former occasion, he directed a full inquiry to be instituted into this service, and no vessel was finally taken up until she had been
 139 Bengal Merchant,
 Mr. Baines  merely rose for the purpose of preventing a misapprehension from going abroad that the majority of Members in that House were favourable to the measure. He had taken some pains to ascertain the opinions of hon. Members on the subject, and he would state, that so far from there being a majority in favour of the Bill, there was a large majority against it. Those interested in railway speculations could know that there never was a measure more obnoxious to the majority of that House.
 Mr. Sanford  presented a Petition from the Shareholders in the Bristol and Exeter Railway Company, against the Railways' Revision of Tolls Bill. He wished to know from his hon. Friend the Member for Ipswich whether it was his intention to press the Bill through this Session. It had already produced the most baneful effects. By the mere introduction of it, a panic had been created throughout the country, of which his hon. Friend could scarcely be aware.
 Mr. Morrison  said, that he found himself in an embarrassing situation on this subject. He was, on the one hand, very strongly impressed with the importance of the Bill he had introduced, and he was most anxious that it should pass this Ses-
 135
 Mr. Potter  said, that the main fact of the committal of the boy was admitted, and that he thought a subject for complaint.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was true that in the year 1833 an individual who was about to establish a particular manufacture applied to the Board of Excise, and laid before them a specimen of the article which he intended to manufacture, and out of which were to be made papier maché, &c. He was then informed that such an article would not be liable to excise duty. A further application was made to the Board in 1835, and it was then first discovered that an alteration had been made in the manufacture so as to render the article liable to the paper duty. The parties were accordingly informed that it would be proposed to Parliament not to interfere in the slightest degree with the original article as manufactured in 1833, but to impose a duty on the altered manufacture of 1835. As, however, there existed a difference of opinion between the petitioners and the officers of Excise as to the statements made, and as the imposition of a duty might involve a breach of engagements he would postpone the third reading of the Bill, and would to-morrow, at an interview which he intended to give to the Excise, officers and the petitioners, take care to hear both sides of the question. If he should
 137
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that on Friday evening, the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, had, in answer to a question from an hon. Member (Mr. Heathcote), stated, that the French Government had at length made a reduction in the duty on British wool. The duty hitherto had been so high as thirty per cent., while we admitted French wool and woollen manufactured goods at a nominal duty. As the subject was one of the greatest interest and importance to the agricultural community, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would be good enough to state the amount of reduction which had been made in the duty by the French Government?
 Lord Ebrington  hoped the House would indulge him while he called its attention to the petition presented yesterday by the Member for Wigan (Mr. Potter) from a solicitor at Barnstaple, complaining of the arrest and imprisonment of a boy there for ballad singing, by one of the magistrates of the borough, he would beg leave to read a statement from the magistrate in question. That magistrate stated that he had some time ago committed on his own view a boy of eighteen years of age for singing and begging in the streets, that the boy was one of a whole family which the father and mother sent about the country to beg, and that they subsisted on the product of their children's begging. The magistrate added, that the case had been brought before the town-council in his absence, but at their next meeting he laid before them a statement of facts which had satisfied them and the public of Barnstaple of the propriety of his conduct. He must inform the House that he had known the gentleman in question for many years, and he was sure there was no individual less likely to exercise his authority as a magistrate in an arbitrary or unjust mannre. He believed that his conduct as a Magistrate had given general satisfaction to the town-council and inhabitants of Barnstaple.
 Mr. Warburton  remarked, that as this Bill was framed very much after the fashion of the hon. Alderman's other Bills, he should move, that it be committed on this day six months.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  complained, that after the Bill had been altered to suit the wishes of the hon. Member, by the omission of clauses, he still resisted the reference of it to a Committee, where it might be made still less objectionable. The truth seemed to be, that the hon. Member for Bridport, (Mr. Warburton) had got a crotchet in his head, and nothing could make him believe that anybody was capable of doing well and wisely, but himself. Only a little while ago, the hon. Member was sitting in single state in one of the Committee-rooms up stairs, surrounded by all the surgeons, sextons, and parish clerks in Lon-don, but without any beneficial result, and; that ought to have taught him, that at least all his crotchets were not invaluable. He believed that the Police Act would expire next year. He did not know whether Ministers intended to renew it; but if they did not, it rendered such a measure
 170
 Mr. Angerstein  said, that many of his constituents were opposed to the Bill.
 Mr. Hawes  complained, that there was a great deal of needless legislation in the Bill. All that was wanted might be accomplished by an efficient police; when the Police Act was renewed, this subject might fitly be taken into consideration. He hoped that the hon. Alderman would consent to defer the Committee.
 Mr. Wilks  called on the hon. Alderman to persevere, adverting to the evils and dangers arising at present for want of due regulations.
 Mr. Fox Maule  was of opinion, that the hon. Alderman deserved the thanks of the public for his labours, and recommended, that whatever savoured of unnecessary legislation should be expunged in the Committee.
 Lord A. Lennox  seconded the motion. He did not believe that a single Member of the Committee had been influenced by any but the purest motives, and it was impossible that the hon. Baronet should have done anything so derogatory to the character of a gentleman.
 Mr. Hawes  wished to give his hon. and gallant Friend an opportunity of repeating or retracting an assertion he had understood him to make: in reference to the general imputations against the Committee, he believed that the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Pechell) had stated that in his opinion some Members of the Committee had been tampered with.
 Mr. Charles Lushington  said, that on the second reading of this Bill he had expressed his satisfaction at the increase of suburban cemeteries. He considered their extension would be extremely beneficial to the inhabitants of towns and cities. He regretted, however, that any distinctions should be made tending to produce dissention and ill-will between any classes of Christians. When the General Cemetery Company was incorporated, in 1824, the Bishop of the diocese would not give his consent to the adoption of the Cemetery unless a wall of demarcation was raised up between the burial-ground of the Dissenters and that of the members of the Church of England. He considered the preservation of such distinctions most disgraceful to the intelligence and enlightenment of the nineteenth century. It was most discreditable, that Dissenters, should not be permitted to be buried in the same ground with members of the Church of England, but that a wall of intolerance should be erected between them. He wad a director of the General Cemetery Company, and when, in the exercise of be functions as such, he had occasionally been called upon to show that ground a strangers he had always felt humiliated when pointing out the burial-place of the members of the Church of England, to be obliged to say, that at the other side of to distinctive bounds lay interred the remain of their Dissenting brethren. He was a fully persuaded of the injurious conse-
 163
 Mr. Baines  concurred in what had been said of the advantage of having establishments of this kind in the neighbourhood of large cities. He believed that they were highly conducive to the health of the pub-
 164
 Dr. Bowring  thought that this would be too harsh a proceeding towards the promoters of the Bill. He thought it would be better that the Bill should be recommitted, in order to give an opportunity of amending it, and rendering it conformable with the general opinion.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that throughout the whole Bill there was a marked distinction
 162
 Mr. Wilks  was anxious for the recommittal of the Bill, in order that an opportunity should be afforded for removing any phraseology that was objectionable. He contended that it was insulting to the Dissenters that, while it provided that the I members of the Church of England should be buried according to the rites of Christian burial, it provided that the Dissenters should be at liberty to use what forms they pleased, provided they were conducted in a decent and solemn manner. As Protestant Dissenters, it was offensive to them to have it declared; that legislative interference was necessary to procure the decent performance of their burial rites. The clauses in question went to perpetuate an odious distinction, which it was not good policy to keep up, and he therefore hoped the Bill would be recommitted.
 Captain Alsager  had no objection to the recommittal of the Bill, and he hoped hon. Members would favour him with their suggestions, so as to make it acceptable.
 Captain Alsager  wished to know in what part of the Bill there was anything to be found to justify the imputation that the promoters of the Bill wished to exclude the Dissenters. No exclusion was intended. The Moravians and Quakers had their own places of burial, in which they were interred according to their own rites. This Bill merely provided that the members of the Church of England should be buried according to their own rites and forms, leaving to the Dissenters and others to adopt theirs.
 Captain Alsager  defended the clauses. There could have been no intention on the part of the promoters of the Bill to offend the Dissenters by the introduction of the words "Christian burial." Surely, the Dissenters were Christians as well as the members of the Church of England. The members of the Church of England were buried in consecrated ground, according to the rites of their church; the other part was set apart for the Dissenters, because they did not choose to be buried in consecrated ground, or think it necessary. He was sorry that a Bill, which was intended to conciliate all parties, should be received as a bone of contention. As to any insult to any class, none was intended. The Bill was drawn up with the concurrence of the prelates of the Church, and in the true spirit of Christian charity.
 Captain Alsager  brought up the Report of the South Metropolitan Cemetery Bill, and moved that it be received.
 Mr. Potter  objected to the Report being received. The Bill contained some most objectionable clauses, and was calculated to produce and continue differences that ought to be avoided between the Dissenters and the members of the Church of England. One of these clauses to which he adverted provided that there should be a portion of ground which was to be consecrated and set apart for the burial of members of the Church of England; whilst the other portion was to be for the burial of Dissenters. He considered these clauses objectionable from the marked distinction that they made between Dissenters and churchmen. He understood that in some places this distinction was carried to such an extent that a wall was raised between the places of burial of Dissenters and the members of the Church of England.
 Mr. Potter  thought that these clauses were of so objectionable a nature that if the hon. Member did not, he should feel it his duty to move that the report be received on that day six months.
 Mr. Wakley  presented a Petition from the Surgeons at Andover, complaining of an individual in that town who had obtained the diploma of the College of Surgeons through fraudulent means. The hon. Member read extracts from the petition, in which it was set forth, that the Royal College of Surgeons obtained their Charter in the year 1800, and among other matters they had bye-laws drawn up for the regulation of candidates for admission. In the year 1833, it was required by the regulations, that a party looking for a diploma should be of the full age of twenty-two years, and that he should be engaged in practice of six years, and have attended certain courses of lectures to qualify him for becoming a member. The individual complained of entered in a medical establishment at Andover in the year 1829, and remained until October, 1833, when he left and proceeded to London for a period of three months, and then returned with the necessary certificates and diplomas, and commenced practising. The surgeons of that town made a complaint to the College, and sent forward affidavits, alleging that for the short time the individual was absent, he could not have qualified to entitle him to practice; and calling on them to institute an inquiry into his pretensions. The College accordingly-cited him to appear before them, but he declined doing so, and from that time they have taken no step to enforce their regulations, and he continues practising. It could not be denied that by the bye-laws the College have the power to reject a candidate, and also to have a  mandamus v.
 Mr. Wakley  differed from that part of the law laid down by the hon. and learned Member where he stated that a man was not to be put on his trial on mere suspicion. He thought it was usual to put a man on trial because of the suspicions against him. There was much more than ground for suspicion in this case, but unfortunately it involved other parties who were in the council; for if it were proved that he had not obtained the certificates by his own fraud, it must appear that they were improperly given to him. The case, however, could not remain in its then state, but must ultimately terminate in a court of law.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the institution of public cemeteries in the neighbourhood of such a great metropolis as this was, in a sanatory point of view, of the greatest importance. Nothing was more useful than the establishment of cemeteries in the neighbourhood of large cities. However, he considered the present Bill as nothing less than an insult to the House, and so derogatory to the character of the English people at this period of intelligence and toleration, that the House would best consult its own dignity by rejecting it altogether. He trusted that the House would reject the proposition with scorn. He was himself a member of the Church of England. He had been bred up in that Church, and respected it as much as any one; but he considered that the present measure was an insult to Dissenters, and as such he should vote against it.
 Sir Charles Burrell  was sorry to be under the necessity of intruding on the House for a short time, but he was induced to do so as a matter of self-defence, from the circumstance of Mr. Cundy, who had been engaged in projecting a railway between London and Brighton, having taken the liberty of making use of his (Sir C. Burrell's) name in a most reprehensible manner. This individual had stated, that the reason which induced him (Sir C. Burrell) to give his vote in favour of Stephenson's line was, that a sum of 15,000 l. 168 l. l, l.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  knew something of this case, and though he was anxious that the petition might have the best attention, he felt bound to say, that the hon. Member for Finsbury was not quite correct in his law. He was right, however, if the allegations in the petition were true, in declaring that the College had the power of declaring the appointment null and void; but the allegations were not true, as would be found had they been studied. It was stated in the petition that the College had not taken the proper steps to compel the attendance of the party, but they did take proper steps and consulted counsel, first taking the precaution to lay all the documents and certificates before him, and counsel's opinion was, that it would be highly improper to take any further proceedings in the business than what they had already done. It was not contended in the first place that the Gentleman was not perfectly competent for the discharge of the duties he had undertaken, for the complaint was more against the extent of his practice than against the validity of his diploma. What was the case? The Gentleman appeared before the College and presented his papers, and after standing the usual examination, to the entire satisfaction of the Court of Examiners, he was granted his diploma, and the usual documents to entitle him to practise surgery. Some time after, doubts were entertained that, from the short time he was absent from Andover, he could not have been properly qualified; but there was no doubt of the certificate being genuine. Then it was that certain affidavits were presented to the College to expel him. He (Sir Frederick Pollock) was then consulted, and after the most anxious deliberation, and giving his best attention to the subject, he was decidedly of opinion that the College could not expel him, and so he communicated to them. Had the College expelled him, he would be at liberty to apply for a  mandamus, 167
 Captain Pechell  hoped he might be permitted to express himself quite surprised at the nature of the charge brought under the consideration of the House. He did not think it was such a one as called for interposition on their part. He was a member of the Committee on the Brighton railway, and heard it reported—he could not take upon himself to state the fact— but it had been stated, that some of the members on that Committee had been tampered with. He never should have thought that such a trumpery matter would have been brought before the House. Certainly, reports had gone abroad that some of the members of the Committee had been tampered with, and that others had sold their land for more than it was worth. Whether the charge were true or false, he did not think it worth investigation.
 Captain Pechell  denied, that he had stated or intended to state any such opinion. He merely meant to say that the report ought to be treated with contempt, and that it was not worth while to investigate it. Personally he was interested in Stephenson's line, as it would benefit his property, but he had opposed it on behalf of his constituents.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was sorry that a single Member would be found capable of saying that a charge which imputed foul corruption to a Member was a trumpery matter. Reports of the kind, it was asserted, had prevailed; but the hon. Member did not know whether they were true or false. If true, they ought to be brought forward; if false, the parties circulating them ought to be punished; and nothing could be more important than the duty of vindicating the purity of the House. If it were to continue to hold any station in public opinion, it could not devote time to a more valuable purpose than sifting such accusations to the bottom, and for that purpose he should move that Mr. Nicholas Wilcox Cundy attend at the bar on Monday next when the hon. Member for Wilts could be present.
 Viscount Sandon  understood that the objection to these clauses was, that they declared burial in one part of the ground to be Christian burial, and in the other not. He certainly could not concur in anything that was calculated to offend the feelings of any class of Christians. However, he did not see that the Dissenters had any reason to be dissatisfied, and he was sure that there was no intention on the part of the promoters of the Bill to give them offence. The noble Lord was understood to say, in conclusion, that if there were any parts of this Bill considered so objectionable as to require amendment, he would concur in its recommittal.
 The Attorney General  said, that he would not object to the motion, but if his hon. Friend intended to ground any measure on the application, and if, after they now had arrived at the 14th of July, he should introduce a private Bill for making a harbour at Trinity, he would certainly oppose it.
 Sir A. L. Hay  said, that the application was made in consequence of some alterations which had been made in the money clauses of the Bill since it had gone to the House of Lords, and which were fatal to the Bill in its present shape. It certainly was his intention to follow up this application by re-introducing the same Bill in that House. The alterations which had been made in it were made by the Speaker of the House of Lords, without the sanction of the Committee of that House; and he would put it to the House whether it would be just or right that a Bill which had undergone the fullest consideration and had passed two Committees of that House, and the Committee of the House of Lords, should be allowed to drop on account of an informal proceeding such as he had described.
 Sir G. Clerk  hoped that the hon. Mem-
 188
 Sir A. L. Hay  said, that he had no intention to interfere with the regular established usages of that House. He had teen informed, however, that Bills under similar circumstances had been re-introduced into that House within a fortnight of the end of the session, and carried through. After the examination of the Lords' journals he would move for the reintroduction of the Bill.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that after the immense expense and labour which had been incurred in carrying this Bill through the House, it would be cruel upon the parties that their measure should be defeated on account of the extraordinary proceeding that had occurred elsewhere. He hoped, therefore, that the House would entertain favourably an application for its re-introduction.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he was a Member of the Committee on the Bill last session, and that in his opinion a perfect case had been made out for it. The Government, however, interfered on that occasion, on account of debts which were due from the port of Leith and city of Edinburgh, and the promoters of the Bill were obliged to withdraw it, and re-introduce it this session. He had since had an opportunity of seeing the situation where this harbour was proposed to be erected, and there could not be one more admirably adapted for the purpose. It was a great object with the public that this Bill should pass, and it would surely be most unjust, that on account of a blunder or something worse that had occurred elsewhere, such a measure should be lost. As to want of notice, this was the best battled Bill that had ever perhaps been before the House.
 The Attorney General  said, that his great object was to obtain a good harbour for the city of Edinburgh. It was his firm conviction that it would be for the benefit
 189
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to order. He understood that it had been agreed upon by the House that orders of the day were to take precedence of motions.
 Mr. Stewart M'Kenzie  said, that when the resources of India were fully developed, the people of this country would be surprised at the ignorance under the operation of which they had so long been induced to uphold the exclusive system with regard to India.
 An Hon. Member  said, he never heard a more extraordinary error than that into which the parties alluded to must have fallen upon this subject; for he himself had asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, upon a former occasion, whether he meant to exclude the Presidencies of Bombay and Madras from the operation of the Bill, and he had given the same explanation as that which he had just furnished.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  expressed his determination to support the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex. The Bill, as it at present stood, would confer no practical benefit upon his constituents, and looking at the importance of the Report in general, he thought it would be better to wait until another Session of Parliament for a larger and more beneficial measure.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton's  objection to the Bill was, that it made no provision for increasing the incomes of the smaller clergy, whilst it continued the payment of enormous salaries to the great Dignitaries of the Church.
 Mr. Warbtirton  could not help thinking that this Bill was at variance with the principles laid down on former occasions, not only by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), but by the hon. Gentlemen who sat on that (the Ministerial) side of the House. When matters of charity and of education had been under the consideration of the Legislature, the principle laid down invariably was, that Parliament should not provide all the money necessary, but that it should vote a sum in aid, leaving to the friends of the charity, or the promoters of the education in question, to supply all that might be further required to carry the object into full effect. He wished to know why a similar system should not be pursued with respect to the Established Church.
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  complained of the monopoly of the College of Surgeons in
 220
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not undervalue the proposition of the hon. Member for Limerick. The monopoly was not defensible, and indeed it was perpetually violated in practice.
 Mr. Macley  said, if the Irish Members would bring forward a proposition for a reciprocity of action between the medical institutions of the two countries, should have his support.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that nothing would be done to prejudice the interests of the Irish College of Surgeons. He had no wish that it should possess any exclusive privileges, but they should first ascertain whether any exclusion was practised towards Irish surgeons by subscribers to infirmaries in England.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in dealing with an Irish Bill in Committee, it was impossible to go into the discussion of the whole question, and inquire what was the practice in England. He was prepared to support the amendment of his hon. Friend, the Member for Limerick, because he considered monopolies were indefensible on principle.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that with respect to the Edinburgh examinations, they were much more rigid than those of London or Dublin. There was more exclusion in Ireland than in England; for in the latter country Irish surgeons were permitted to practise in English hospitals, whilst the medical officers of the army and navy were precluded from practice, and were met with a negative, which had the injurious effect of limiting the choice to men who received their medical education in the Irish college.
 Mr. Callaghan  said, that this was a clause to which his constituents had a decided objection. It was an  ex post facto 221 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  never heard so singular a definition of a clause as that given by his hon. Friend. When these sums were granted, the people knew that they were to repay them, and therefore he could not see the injustice of asking them to discharge a debt they were morally and legally subject to. His hon. Friend said, the money should be paid by the public at large. This was a doctrine he could not assent to. When disease broke out in Ireland, and when money was required to allay it, how could he call on English Members for advances of public money, when the people for whose benefit it was expended afterwards refused to refund it.
 Mr. O'Brien  said, that in every town affected by the cholera the clause had excited much surprise. It would be exceedingly harsh as regarded the occupiers of small tenements. He supported the amendment of his hon. Friend.
 Dr. Baldwin  was instructed by his constituents to oppose the clause. He could not deny that the money had been advanced, nor could he say that it was not fairly due; but he would request the Government to consider the circumstances of the case; and if they did not remit the whole sum, he hoped they would make the repayment of it as light as possible.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could have no sort of difficulty in agreeing to the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last; the government would certainly render the repayment as little oppressive as possible.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the people of England were exceedingly anxious for the introduction of poor-laws into Ireland, but he thought, if advances of public money were to be made from the consolidated fund every time contagion broke out in Ireland, they would soon demand the enactment of a poor-law in that country.
 Colonel Perceval  said, Sligo had suffered more than any other town in Ireland by the fearful visitation of cholera. The Government advances amounted to upwards of 13,000 l.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  observed, that when advances were made from the consolidated fund, the grand jury was bound to provide for the repayment. The clause was not retrospective. It only recognised a right which the Crown possessed, at present, to enforce the payment of money so advanced. The grand jury was bound to present the sums, and in the event of their refusing, the judge had the power of inflicting a penalty on them for neglect of duty. It might, however, be wise for the Government to extend the time for repayment. He would suggest that a proviso be added to the clause, to the effect that the payments should be made by instalments as the grand jury should deem fit.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  would not enter into a discussion on the circumstances which had occurred at the assizes of the county which he had the honour to represent. It
 223
 Mr. Callagkan  trusted the House would not imagine that he had unnecessarily given rise to this discussion. The proviso was a great improvement, and he thought it would be satisfactory. He denied, however, that the grants in question were made on the faith of a grand jury presentment, as stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The money was advanced under a special Act of Parliament for preventing the spread of contagion, and the question was an open one—whether the money should be repaid or not? The Act stated, that the grand jury may present, but it did not render it imperative on them to do so.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  said, that the clause appeared to him as an attempt to establish the ancient Irish erick—a sum of money to be levied off the county, to the
 224
 The Attorney-General  observed that the clause was simple a re-enactment of the old law. Clause was agreed to.
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  would state to the House the reason which induced him to oppose it. He intended to move an amendment, the effect of which would be to prevent claim for debts alleged to be due, from being advanced against counties in Ireland, in cases where they had remained undemanded for ten years. He confidently anticipated that the injustice he was anxious to prevent, entitled him to the support of the House. At the Assizes lately held in the county Roscommon, the Crown Solicitor, amongst other claims, advanced one for a presentment to re-pay the sum of 6,750 l. 225
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the amendment. He was willing to agree to any proposition that would save the public money, but he could not support nor consent to the views of his hon. Friend.
 Lord John Russell  said it was impossible that he could agree to the motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. In his opinion the comparison which had been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite inapplicable. Between the situation of the bishops, and that of the members of any of the professions referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman, there was a vast difference. The bishop had to maintain a large establishment, to observe hospitality, to contribute to the work of charity, and to preserve his position amongst those who possessed large landed property, while persons engaged in other professions were not liable to such serious charges on their incomes. He thought, that to reduce the means of the bishops and archbishops in the way proposed, would exceedingly impair the efficiency of the Church.
 Lord John Russell , said he would not oppose the clause being brought up, and read a first time, but he should certainly oppose the second reading of it.
 Lord John Russell  would not again go over the principles of the Bill, which had already been fully stated; but there were one or two points which had arisen in the course of the discussion upon which he thought some little explanation was required. First, with respect to the time at which the measure was brought forward. Those hon. Gentlemen who had expressed a determination to support the amendment moved by the hon. Member for Middlesex, argued as if the House had been taken by
 210 l. l. 211 Hume: 212 l. l.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  said, in reference to what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, all that he (Mr. Aaron Chapman) had heard from the parties to whom the right hon. Gentleman alluded, was some apprehension lest the benefits of the measure proposed by Government should not hereafter be extended to Madras and Bombay.
 Mr. Charles Buller  rose to move a clause, providing, "That until provision has been made for the adequate payment of the parochial clergy, and for the supply of religious instruction to those parts of the country stated in the Reports of the Commissioners to be destitute thereof, the Archbishop of Canterbury shall receive 8,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 215 l. l l. l. l. 216 l. l. l. l. l. 217 l.
 Mr. Charles Buller  complained of the manner in which so important a measure was hurried through Parliament. The Bill was drawn up so, that it was very difficult to propose any amendment to it. The fact was, that the Bill was chiefly founded on some Reports of the Church Commissioners, so recently made, that there had not been sufficient time to consider them.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  understanding, that the petition on which these resolutions were founded was dated a very considerable time ago, was not surprised that the gentlemen who had signed it had clone so, since they must necessarily have been ignorant of the changes which had taken place; but he could not acquit his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, for presenting a petition which he must have known was not borne out by facts. One of the resolutions of the hon. Gentleman, was "That the discriminating duties levied within the United Kingdom on various articles, the productions of the British possessions in India are impolitic and unjust, alike injurious to the producers in India, and to the consumers in the United Kingdom; and that such duties ought with the least practical delay to be reduced to the same amount as those levied on corresponding articles, the produce of his Majesty's colonies in the West Indies." Now who that read that resolution would not, if unacquainted with the subject, imagine that there was a great variety of articles on which discriminating duties were levied. But he (Mr. P. Thomson) utterly denied that the fact was as stated by his hon. Friend. There did not exist a discriminating duty on more than three articles between the East and West Indies. It was in 1833 that he (Mr. P. Thomson) went through the list of Customs, and he then found only twenty different articles on which there
 200 l. l. 201 202
 Mr. Villiers  said, there was so much justice in the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, that the motion which he had just made should have his decided support. He agreed with him, that the vice of the Report naturally arose out of the constitution of the Commission appointed to inquire into the Church Establishment. It was altogether hypocritical to allege that the measure of his Majesty's Ministers was at all a measure of effective Church reform.
 Mr. Cayley  objected to the manner in which this and other measures relating to the Established Church had been hurried through the House. In his opinion, none
 204
 Mr. Robinson  was a great friend to the Establishment of the Church of England, but that he did not think that this Bill was at all calculated to conduce to its real and permanent benefit. He was decidedly opposed to the translation of bishops, to the small stipends of some of the working clergy, the pluralities, and to non-residence; and although he did not agree with the hon. Member for Shaftsbury in all respects, he admitted the justice of his observation, that we ought to take such steps as might conciliate and attract those who were not of our communion. For the attainment of all the objects to which he had alluded, the Bill fell short of providing adequate means. He wished the archbishops and bishops to be duly provided for; but he never could believe that there present splendid revenues could conduce to the benefit of the Church itself. So far from it, in his opinion they did that Church great harm. He regretted, also that the motion which had recently
 206
 Mr. Buckingham  was desirous of making a remark on the subject of the salt monopoly. To tax an article of general consumption was at all times impolitic; but in India, where salt was not a luxury, but a condiment essential to the health of the people, any impost upon that commodity must be oppressive in the extreme. He hoped that the Government would proceed in the career which they had begun; and he trusted, that having assimilated the duties on East and West Indian sugars, they would make haste and remove those discriminating duties upon East-Indian goods which still remained.
 Mr. Plumptre  enlogised the ability, learning, piety, and devotion of the clergy of the Church of England. It was impossible for any set of men to labour more diligently and honestly in their vocation than they did. He did not say that the Church was faultless, but he did say that the assertion of the hon. member for Shaftesbury, that it was on the decline, was unfounded.
 Mr. Poulter  must object to a measure founded on principles contrary to those which were indispensable to the final and satisfactory settlement of the great question at issue. If the House called before them the necessary evidence, they would find that there might be derived from the income of the dignitaries of the Church a large surplus, which might be more advantageously employed. He was convinced that no less a sum than 25,000 l. 205
 Mr. Hume  observed, that when the Bill was in Committee he had protested against its inefficiency: since that time he had looked into it well, and his objections had been completely confirmed. He would put this single proposition to the noble Lord who had the charge of this Bill. That noble Lord had postponed the Church-rates Bill to next session, on the ground that there was no time for it; and yet that referred only to the appropriation of about 250,000 l. l. l. l. 207
 Mr. Hume , in reply, observed that the Indians were treated with gross injustice, and in proof of that, referred to the tax upon pimento of 3 d. s.
 Mr. Hume  would only appeal to the recollection of the right hon. Baronet, whether, when the proposition was made that the orders of the day should take precedence of motions, an exception was not made in favour of this particular motion. If, however, it was productive of any inconvenience to the right hon. Baronet, he would not press it.
 Mr. Hume  then proceeded to state, that he had the honour a short time back to present a petition from the inhabitants of Calcutta, which had been agreed to at one of the most numerous meetings ever held there, and when he stated that the motion which he was about to bring forward was founded upon that petition, and that it involved the welfare of upwards of 80,000,000 of individuals, he trusted that it would not be considered unworthy of the attention of the House. The petition, which had been printed, and which, he trusted, was in the hands of every Member of the House, stated the situation of the country in regard to the effects of the late legislative enactments respecting it. By the late alterations in the Charter of the East-India Company, the government of India had undergone a very considerable change, and the protection which the British subjects there had hitherto enjoyed had been in a manner withdrawn—namely, the protection of the Supreme Court; because power was given by the 43rd section of the Act to the Governor-General in Council to legislate without any interference or advice. Now, although the late governor had returned, and no complaint was made against him by the petitioners, he was anxious that the rights of the people should not be dependent upon the authority of any one man. The law-makers in India were entirely irresponsible; against their proceedings there was no appeal, save to that House or to the King. No notice was ever given, or required to be given, of any regulations they might think proper to adopt, although they must be implicitly obeyed, and might affect the property, rights, and liberties of the people; it was therefore no wonder that they complained of being placed without the pale of the British Constitution. Remembering the mischiefs which had been committed by many governor-generals of colonies, he must say, that he thought no man could wish to see the important colonies of the East Indies placed in a situation that would render them liable to similar misfortunes. The prayer of the petition was therefore a reasonable one; it was, that
 191 192 l. l. l. l. 193 l. l. l. 194 s. s. l. l. 
 1. "That this House will take an early opportunity of considering the allegations
 195 2. "That the monopolies of salt and opium exercised by the East-India Company within the British dominions in India are incompatible with sound principle, and detrimental to the agricultural and commercial interests of India; and they ought, conformably to the expectations held out by the Ministers of the Crown, to be abolished as early as the same can be effected, without prejudice to the local revenues of India. 3. "That the discriminating duties levied within the United Kingdom on various articles the productions of the British possessions in India, are impolitic and unjust, alike injurious to the producers in India, and to the consumers in the United Kingdom; and that such duties ought, with the least practicable delay, to be reduced to the same amount as those levied on corresponding articles, the produce of His Majesty's colonies in the West Indies. 4."That it is just and equitable that the same duties and no other should be levied on manufactured articles, the produce of British India imported into the United Kingdom, as are levied on the corresponding articles of British manufactures imported into all British possessions in India."
 Mr. Hume  rose to address the House, being very anxious, he said, to fulfil a duty which he owed to the people of India, when
 Sir Love Parry  stated, that the Bishop of Bangor, in Wales, received at present but 3,800 l.
 Mr. Lennard  concurred in the observations just made by his hon. Friend; and added, that his were also the opinions of the inferior clergy of the diocese of Durham. He thought the Bill ought for the present to be postponed, and, in the next Session, that a general measure of Church regulation should be introduced.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to say a few words on this subject, in consequence of some observations which had been lately made, not in, but out of the House, with respect to the assimilating duties which had been laid on East-India sugars. No restriction was imposed on their produce, but what had been also im-
 203
 Mr. Hogg  said, that he had read the petition now before the House, but that he did not find in it one word or one topic comprised in the resolution which they were now called upon to agree to. There was nothing, for instance, about either salt or opium in it. The hon. Member for Middlesex had spoken at considerable length upon the subject of the petition, but at the same time he also moved, that the consideration of the petition should be put off, and not one word did he say either about salt or opium. The resolution was, "That the House should take an early opportunity of considering the subject of the petition." The petition, as he believed, had been here for sixteen months or more, and surely, if there was anything in it worthy of attention, it was high time it should receive it now. He suspected that the hon. Member's intention was to give the "go-by" altogether to the petition. He hoped the hon. Member did not mean to bolster up the hon. Member for Cheshire and his Salt Committee. No doubt any commercial monopoly was a
 199
 Sir John Hobhouse  could assure his hon. Friend, that he had given his attention to the matter to which the petitions referred. Notwithstanding all that his hon. Friend had been pleased to say of the Board of Control, and the Gentlemen in that office, he could assure him, that their attention was constantly directed to the affairs of that great country, which were now the subject of discussion. Since he had the honour of filling the high office which he now held, he knew of no subject connected with it, brought under his notice, that he did not pay to it the best attention in his power. He owed to the kindness of his hon. Friend, the opportunity of looking over the petition which was now brought before the House. Now in looking over the allegations contained in that petition, he could not, he was bound to say, think that the situation of India was as desperate as the petitioners seemed to consider it. Some time, he thought, ought at least to have been given, to see how the new charter operated. He should have thought, that the petitioners ought to have waited a little longer than nine months
 196 197 l. 198 l. l.
 Sir R. Peel  assured the hon. Member for Middlesex, that the course he was pursuing occasioned no personal inconvenience to him; but he could not permit such a precedent to be established without protesting against it. There were 658 Members in that House, and if they were all to follow the example of the hon. Member for Mid-
 190
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that it had been thought necessary, for the more convenient despatch of public business, to arrange that orders of the day should take precedence of motions on all other days than Wednesday, and when he saw that a single Member of the House, on some understanding not recognised by the House, could bring forward a motion, he must say that he thought it a very bad precedent. There might be some peculiar case which would justify a departure from the rules laid down, but unless that were the case, it must be a dangerous precedent, and, to say the least of it, might be accompanied with very great partiality. He had been given to understand by the notification which had been left with the clerk of the House, and which was in the hand-writing of the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, that not only would the rule be adhered to for the orders of the day taking precedence of motions, but that the Established Church Bill would come on. at an early hour. The first information which he had received to the contrary was to find, on coming down to the House, that one particular motion was to take precedence of all other business. Such a precedent was, he must repeat, most dangerous and liable to be abused.
 Sir Robert Peel  was of opinion, that his Majesty's Government having duly considered what were the best means of securing a measure of practical Church reform, had actually brought forward a measure to accomplish that. If the House rejected the Bill, they would reject a great benefit. If, for instance, the House rejected the Bill, they would enable his Majesty's Government, in the event of a vacancy occurring in the diocese of London, to appoint a Bishop, who would retain all the emoluments that at present belonged to that see. If the House agreed to press that Bill they would establish the principle that the maximum revenue of the Bishop of London should not exceed 10,000 l. 208 l. l. l. l. l. l. 209
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that he considered he was doing nothing more than discharging an act of duty to the diocese with which he was more immediately connected, by moving the insertion of a clause for fixing the amount of the income of the present bishop, and all future bishops of the diocese of Durham, at a sum not less than 10,000 l. 214
 Mr. A. Trevor  did not consider this the fit or proper time to legislate upon a matter of so much importance, involving so many complicated interests, and operating so strongly upon the existing Establishment of the Church. Therefore, however unusual it might be with him, or however reluctant he might feel on ordinary occasions, to vote with the hon. Member for Middlesex, in not one of whose sentiments upon Church matters could he for a moment participate, he should certainly in this instance, if the motion were pressed, feel himself bound to support the proposition for delay.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  feared, from the temper of the House, that the hon. and
 218
 The Attorney General  opposed the motion on the ground of the lateness of the session, and said that the rules laid down by the House with respect to notices and subscribers had not been observed.
 Sir G. Clerk  opposed the introduction of the Bill. He did not deny, that the promoters of it were highly respectable, but asserted that they were much better known on the Stock Exchange than in Edinburgh. He contended that the old harbour of Leith might be improved in such a manner as to answer every purpose, and called upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer to interfere in consequence of the large sum of the public money risked by the new undertaking.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that although he agreed in many of the arguments of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he must add that he felt under the necessity of coming to a different conclusion as to the justice of these claims in the present case. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that claims of this description should be entertained with great caution; and that they should not be listened to unless undeniably established upon the grounds of justness and right; and it was because he did think that the present claims were so established that he should support the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets. The Chancellor of the Exchequer held the doctrine that to seize the vessels of other powers, even when no war had actually commenced, was not contrary to the law
 240
 Mr. Fitzstephen French  objected to the retrospective power proposed to be given to this clause, and moved, that the words "any Act now in force in Ireland," be omitted. He considered the clause was introduced for the purpose of forcing an unjust claim on the county which he represented, and under it the Judge would be forced, even contrary to his own opinion, to order money to be levied off the county.
 Colonel Perceval  said, the clause would have the effect of an  ex post facto 243
 Mr. More O'Ferrall  supported the clause, and declared, that it was not retrospective. He stated, that it gave no new power, and that if it were not passed, the constabulary would be unprovided for.
 Colonel Perceval : The hon. Member did not understand him as wishing to enforce the payment of the money immediately upon the expiration of the five years, but merely as desirous to have it enacted, that unless payment be demanded within that period, there should be no power to recover it by levy; whereas, with respect to Roscommon, the money was said to have been advanced in 1822, and a period of fourteen years had since elapsed. The clause gave the Government the power to do that which they could not do now, and therefore he should oppose it. If the noble Lord would frame a clause, enacting that money advanced should not be repaid unless demanded within five years, he would support him; but he would not agree to one which gave power to recover money after such an extraordinary length of time had passed away. He considered such a proceeding to be unjust and inconsistent with fair dealing between the parties. He should be the last person to resist a just debt, but confiding in the integrity of the Judges who had decided against the power of the Crown to enforce the payment, he saw the greatest evil arising from a clause which gave a summary power of enforcing it after the lapse of fourteen years.
 Lord Clements  supported the amendment, and considered that such a power ought not to be vested in the judge.
 Mr. F. French  stated, that the hon. Member for Kildare was incorrect in every statement he had made. The clause was a retrospective one, as the hon. Member him-
 244
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, the operation of the clause was not retrospective; it merely preserved the right of the Crown, and provided for a clear exercise of that power which was now exercised in a most inconvenient manner. The presentments of the grand jury, as the law stood now, must be fiated by the judges, before they could he put in force. Certainly this money could only be paid upon their presenting, but the judge had the power of refusing to fiat their other presentments, if they refused to make those which might properly be required of them. He could by this means stop all allowances for the maintenance of the gaol, or for county expenses of any kind whatever. Instead of doing this, he would now have the power of ordering payment on the certificate of the secretary of the Lord-Lieutenant, but not of saddling the county with one shilling expense, to which it was not before liable, and this was not a new power.
 Mr. F. French  said, the only existence it had was in a local Act for the city of Cork, and was, to all intents and purposes, a new power, so far as the counties were concerned. It was, he contended, for the purpose of making the country in general pay sums that had been lent, or granted perhaps would be a better phrase, by individuals.
 Mr. O'Loghlen —There are twenty Acts of Parliament applying to counties, but none to individuals. This Act will not, in any way, affect the claim upon the county of Roscommon.
 Colonel Perceval —The clause would have the effect of forcing the payment of
 245
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it was plain to him that if the cases referred to by the hon. Members opposite were not just debts, this clause would not compel the payment of them; while, on the other hand, he had already had sufficient experience to satisfy him—such was the present uncertain state of the laws in Ireland, that there was the greatest difficulty experienced in procuring any pecuniary advances out of the general funds of the empire to be applied to local purposes in that country.
 Mr. Randall Plunkett  believed, that many of these advances should be repaid, but he objected to the more stringent power which this clause would give to the judges. The noble Lord and learned Attorney-General for Ireland said, that it would only enable them to do that directly which they now have the power of doing indirectly. In the present state of things, it would be more desirable that the control of the county funds should be vested in a body of men, than that of an individual, thereby setting aside the presentments of the grand jury, and Tendering them useless altogether.
 Mr. Lefroy  observed, that this was a Bill to do away with settlements, and to enable tenants for life to rob their children. If it were brought in, he should most certainly oppose it in every stage.
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, he was so strongly opposed to it, that he would take upon himself the responsibility of dividing the House on the motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Wyse  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not do so. It would be a great matter to afford the public an opportunity of considering the merits of the Bill during the recess.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the Bill had been recommended in the Report of a Committee, and he hoped the House would not object to its being brought in.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, it really was with great reluctance he persisted in his opposition to the proposed measure, but he did not wish even so much countenance to be given to the principle of it, as leave to bring in such a Bill. Why should such a Bill be brought in for Ireland, when he would venture to say, no man ever even contemplated such a Bill for England? He did not understand why it should be proposed to bring in a Bill for Ireland in particular, which would have the direct and immediate effect of annulling settlements, and enabling tenants for life to charge the inheritance with any amount of expenditure they might think proper to make; he, however, knew what use would be made of this Bill in Ireland. In fact, no remainder-man, under any settlement in Ireland, would be safe if this Bill were to pass. Even as the law stood at present, they knew what waste was frequently committed by tenants for life on the property of infants, who were unable to
 247
 Mr. Lynch  said, that as a law of a similar nature existed in Scotland, he did not see what objection ere was to its introduction into Ireland. The people, no doubt, might be a little startled by it at first, but when they would see the restrictions he had to propose, he was sure that that surprise would subside. He only now asked for permission to point out what the restrictions and conditions were upon which he would propose this measure.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he felt great difficulty about the measure, but upon that very ground, he was ready to assent to the proposition of his hon. Friend, the Member for Galway.
 Mr. Rice Trevor  said, he considered the measure as getting rid of the franchise of the outvoters in counties by a side-wind. He objected to a question of so much importance being decided in this way. The Bill was liable to the objection, that it was an interference with the Reform Bill, which he thought was to be a final measure. He should divide against the motion.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was always his intention that the polling for counties should last only one day. There were formerly the same objections to reducing the time from fifteen days to two, that there were now to reducing it from two days to one. Instead of putting a clause to effect the proposed change into the Registration Bill, in order to avoid objections, he had made the matter the subject of a separate Bill. He thought this was an answer to the charge of endeavouring to effect his object by indirect means.
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed his hope that the House would not sanction such a system of abominable plunder as that by which vessels and cargoes were seized without the possibility of any notice that the nations were engaged in war. They would never have borne with such a system only that they happened to be the greatest naval power in the world, and that they had themselves practised it. The argument that this practice was justified by international law amounted to this—because we have plundered others, that is a sufficient reason for pronouncing the act which we have committed, as one warranted by international law. He admitted, that this had been the practice, but he denied that
 241
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the case made out by his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was so strong that he felt bound to get up and state his conviction, that these claims ought not to be acceded to. The doctrine of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, if worth anything, laid it down, that not only should the Danish merchants receive the amount of their losses, but that England was to be considered liable to the making good of all losses on account of seized cargoes, where the suffering parties were ignorant of a declaration of war having been published. This general position would, he need not say, give rise to more claims than the wealth of England could redeem. The hon. and learned Member had then gone on to say, that the seizure of the cargoes of the petitioning merchants was an act of robbery, and that the property so forfeited should be made good to them. If this position was maintainable, England should at once say to Denmark, "We have robbed you of 1,500,000 l.
 Sir A. L. Hay  presented the report on the petition for leave to bring in a Bill for forming a harbour at Trinity. He then moved for leave to introduce the Bill.
 Sir A. L. Hay  contended that the previous Bill brought in this session had not been thrown out upon the merits, but
 235
 Mr. George F. Young  thought it to be his duty to oppose the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this question, and to give his support to the motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. He had it upon a very high authority, in opposition to
 239
 Mr. Warburton  rose for the purpose of bringing forward the petition, which he had given notice of presenting, and for the discussion of which an early sitting of the House had been determined upon. It was unnecessary for him to enter at great length into the facts detailed
 233
 Mr. Hume  would also support the motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. He contended that this country was not at war with Denmark at the time these seizures took place; so far from it, the parties trading with Denmark, and having cargoes on the point of starting to that part of the world, made inquiry of the Government at home, and also of the Danish Ambassador, whether hostilities were meditated in that quarter, and they received an assurance in the negative. After taking this precaution, and receiving this assurance, he thought it extremely unjust that these parties should be made to suffer. He trusted that the House would act upon the principle that British subjects ought always to be protected in furtherance of their lawful commerce, upon which so much of our strength as a great maritime nation depended. He called upon the House not to resist those claims in the manner and on the grounds stated by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but as they had already indemnified the first and second class of losses, that they would complete the act of justice by paying those comprehended in the third class.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the clause out of which the rejection arose had been frequently before a noble Lord in the other House, who had not objected to it as long as it seemed likely that the Bill would not pass. When it became probable that the Bill would pass, the objection had been raised. He did not mean to impute motives, but merely to state his own impression of the fact. The inhabitants of Edinburgh were naturally opposed to the undertaking of making a new harbour to the detriment of the old, but the real question was, whether the House would sanction a measure which would give to the trade of Scotland the accommodation it required.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  expressed a hope, that means would be taken to enforce the observance of the school rules in Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was one of the most painful tasks which a Minister of the Crown could have to perform, but still no less an imperative duty, to resist the payment of demands of this description, when brought forward in that House, unless he could bring himself to believe that those claims were founded in justice. His conviction was, that if the principle of the present motion were to be admitted, it would form a precedent new in itself, liable to extension, and leading to the worst possible consequences, not only in a commercial point of view, but also as regarded our diplomatic relations with other countries. The total amount of claims to indemnity as they originally stood, were classed under the following three heads—namely, first, book-debts, &c., confiscated by the Danish Government, amounting to
 238 l. l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  vindicated the Government. He admitted that the hon. Member had done no more than his duty in bringing forward the case, and he praised the exertions of his hon. Friend in bringing forward similar cases. He contended, that the Treasury had acted with justice, and that they would have been guilty of a dereliction of duty, if they had acted otherwise. The moment the petition was received, they did not shut the doors of justice against the petitioners, but gave them the benefit of going into the highest court in the land. It was referred to the Court of Chancery, which had adjudicated upon the case. It had been said that the Solicitors of the Treasury had rigidly opposed the prosecution of the
 234
 Sir Edward Codrington  remarked, that the difficulty having arisen out of a clause moved by the hon. Baronet, he ought not to object to the introduction of a new Bill which would remedy the defect.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  had been counsel in the case, and would take leave to state a few facts. In his opinion, nothing would be more fatal to the general and efficient administration of justice than to consider that House was to be made a court of appeal for the administration of justice between party and party; but he thought that an appeal might be made with perfect propriety and consistency (and he hoped it would never be made in vain to the House of Commons) in a case where the Crown was concerned on the one hand, and the subject on the other. It was his honest, and firm, and sincere conviction, that if the case was fit to be tried at all, it ought to be tried again; and a more entire miscarriage—a more complete failure of justice—he never witnessed in the whole course of his life. This was a case between the subject and the Crown, and the honour of the Crown was implicated in giving every possible facility to the proof of claims to such property.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the distinction taken between the two classes of cases was perfectly supported by the law of nations. The class now under consideration was such as included those liabilities to which every man circumstanced as these claimants were, either knew, or ought to know, that he was subject. The only question was, whether this seizure was consistent with the law of nations, or in violation of this law? The moment they came to the former of these conclusions, it followed that, however great the hardship on individuals might be, the ships were taken according to the usage of nations, and that this seizure came within the same class as that which comprised the ships taken in the ordinary course of warfare. Though it might be expedient that this law should be changed by the consent of all nations, and that some notice of seizure should be given, rather than that the first intimation of the intention should be conveyed to traders by the act of seizure itself, still it would be inconsistent with all precedent, if such a course were adopted without the abrogation of that law, which had hitherto been observed, being made in the first instance.
 Mr. Clay , upon the order of the day being moved for the third reading of the Church of Ireland Bill, brought forward his motion that the petition which he had already presented from persons having suffered loss by seizure of property by the Danes, in 1807, should be referred to a Select Committee. He observed that there had been different classes of claimants upon the Government; to some of them their demands were conceded, while those whose case he now brought forward had not received that to which he
 236 l. l. 237
 Mr. Hutt  hoped the House would not support the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the technical objections which he had raised against these claims. It was proved that these parties had acted under the assurance of perfect security given them both by the British Government and the Danish Ambassador, and he thought sufficient grounds had been shown to justify the House and the Government in admitting the claim which was now made.
 Viscount Morpeth  promised to use his best exertions for that purpose.
 Lord John Russell  said, that with regard to the first question put to him by the noble Lord opposite, the regulations issued by an inspector, originated with that inspector, who was of course responsible to the Home-office; and with respect to the regulations issued by Mr. Homer, he (Lord J. Russell) did not see that they could lead to any misunderstanding; and further, that they did not contain anything contrary to the provisions of the Act. With regard to an increase in the number of inspectors, he must say, it might be necessary either to do so, or to give to the superintendents powers which at present they did not possess. It was a subject to which he should give his best and most anxious attention.
 Lord Ashley  said, that the regulations included attendance in schools on Sundays, whereas the Act contemplated the attendance in schools to be twelve hours per week of six days, excluding the seventh, which he hoped to see left to them as a day of rest, without it being compulsory on the children on that day to attend schools.
 Mr. Hindley  suggested to the noble Lord opposite (Lord Ashley), the propriety of including in his motion a return of all the regulations issued by the various factory
 269
  Mr. Miles  was sorry to interfere, or to interrupt the business of the House, but in reference to the vote to which it had just now come, he felt himself bound to offer an observation. By that vote, he considered that the honour of an individual, a Member of the House, and well known and esteemed by him, had been called in question, and he thought it necessary that that hon. Member should be ordered to attend in his place, and meet the denial of Mr. Cundy face to face. The House had proceeded on the letter of the hon. Member for Wiltshire, and though the contents of that letter had not been directly put to Mr. Cundy, yet its substance had been stated to that Gentleman, who had denied its accuracy, and the House had acted on the contradiction thus given to that which was gravely asserted by the hon. Member for Wiltshire, in the letter which had been read to the House, [ cries of
 Sir George Clerk  rose to call the attention of the House to a circular note, a copy of which he then held in his hand; it was to this effect —that from the avowed determination expressed by Sir George Clerk to oppose the Bill then under consideration, at every stage, it having been withdrawn from the House of Lords before its third reading, the writer expressed a hope that the hon. Member to whom it was addressed would attend in his place and support the second reading of the Bill on that day. He felt it due to himself to say, that the statement contained in that circular was utterly false. He knew not when or where it could be said of him that he had expressed a determination to oppose that Bill through its several stages. He objected to the Bill on the same grounds which he had slated on a former occasion —namely, the introduction of a clause which the promoters had put in, either with the view of raising higher duties than before, or in consequence of a very gross mistake. He had before said, and he should now repeat the declaration, that under such circumstances they had no right to come before the House of Commons to ask for a new Bill. Was there any precedent for parties making their own blunder a ground for proceeding anew? He did not hesitate to say, that what had occurred was either a wilful, and therefore a culpable act, or else the result of gross stupidity and neg-
 255
 The Speaker : I apprehend, that if this Bill have been introduced under the circumstances which has been stated by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Edinburgh-shire, the hon. Member cannot proceed with it; and, therefore, the hon. Member must withdraw his motion.
 Sir Andrew L. Hay  wished to understand from the Chair, whether it would be against the rules of the House that the Bill should then be read a second time?
 The Speaker : It rests with the hon. and gallant Member to shew that the Bill has not been brought forward under circumstances which are opposed to the general rules and practice of the House.
 Sir Andrew L. Hay  observed, that he before had stated to the House that this was not the reintroduction of a Bill rejected by the Lords; it was withdrawn from that House before it came to its last stage, and now altered in no other respect than as their Lordships wished it should be; he hoped, therefore, that the Bill would be allowed to proceed. If rejected, it would really be depriving the public of a great and substantial benefit.
 Mr. Wilks  desired to know if they could then proceed with the Bill?
 The Attorney-General  said, that what had occurred must have been the result of gross neglect or of barefaced fraud. There was clearly no precedent for this reintroduction of a Bill; and, even if that objection were got over, how could the House be asked to read a Bill a second time when the print did not agree with the Bill on the table, which in this instance was allowed to be the case?
 The Speaker : It appears to me very clear that the question which the House has first to decide upon is this, is there no other printed Bill in the hands of hon. Members than that which differs from the Bill on the Table? If such be the fact, the hon. Member cannot proceed to the second reading.
 Sir A. L. Hay  said, there was no other printed Bill.
 The Speaker : Then we cannot proceed, because there should be printed copies made according to the Standing Orders, and the invariable practice of the House.
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that with the permission of the House, he would state what had occurred between himself and Mr. Cundy after he had heard from the hon. Member for Wiltshire what Mr. Cundy had said respecting his conduct on the London and Brighton Railway Committee. He had seen Mr. Cundy in the House of Lords, where Mr. Cundy attended to give evidence, and he then said to him, "Mr. Cundy, I desire to speak with you. How dared you to state to Mr. Benett, that I was induced to vote in favour of Stephenson's line by a sum of 15,000 1. l.
 Mr. Goring  said, that as Mr. Cundy's behaviour had been complained of, it seemed right that he should state in what manner he had conducted himself towards him. [ Cries of "Order" and "Chair," compelled the hon. Member to resume his seat.
 Mr. N. W. Cundy  was then called in and examined by the Speaker. The witness stated, that he was a civil engineer, and had been employed in making a survey of a railroad between London and Brighton. Had not solicited the votes of the attendance of Members of the House when the Brighton Railway Bill was under the consideration of a committee. Had a conversation with Mr. Benett, a Member of the House, on the subject of the South Western Railway. Had called on him fourteen or fifteen days ago on the subject of the South Western Railway, and a certain conversation then took place on the motion of Mr. Benett relative to the London and Brighton Railway.
 The Speake r: I wish to know distinctly, whether you have had any conversation with Mr. Benetton the subject of the London and Brighton Railway?—Mr.  Cundy
 The Speaker : Did you make any communication to Mr. Benett respecting the large compensation which Sir C. Burrell, a Member of this House, had received, or was to receive, for his land on the line?— Mr.  Cundy
 Mr. Hume  said, that before that paper was read by the witness, he wished to ask whether it was written by another or by himself, and whether the statement was his own?—Mr.  Cundy
 The Speaker : When was it drawn up?
 —Mr. Cundy : To-day.
 The Speaker : If it was drawn up on this day only it cannot be read. 258 l. l.
 Sir C. Burrell  had no objection to offer against reading the letter which the witness held in his hand, except that it had nothing to do with the present question.
 The Speaker : Did you say anything respecting any change of conduct on the part of Sir C. Burrell with respect to the different lines of railway?
 Mr. Cundy : No, I did not.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it appeared to him that the witness had only repeated the reports which had circulated in the public press.
 Mr. Cundy  in answer to questions put by the last named hon. Member, said that four or five weeks ago a statement was made in the  Brighton Gazette, Goring. 259
 By Mr. Robinson . Did not say, that the vote of the Committee was obtained by unfair means. When he heard that he had been reported by Mr. Benett to have said that Sir C. Burrell was to have 15,000 l.
 By Mr. Williams Wynn . The second time you called on Mr. Benett, what took place?
 Mr. Williams Wynn . Did you tell Mr. Benett that you had heard what you have stated, and that you believed it to be true?
 Mr. Cundy . No.
  Mr. Wynn . Have you any reason whatever for believing the reports you mentioned to be true?
 Mr. Cundy . It is impossible for me to decide on that point. If the House shall please to appoint a Committee to investigate the subject, I shall be ready to attend their orders with all humility. The reports referred to were mentioned in  The Morning Chronicle, The Morning Herald, The Morning Post, The Times 260
 Mr. Hume  observed, that from all that had been collected during the examination, it was plain that what Mr. Cundy had said was given as the reports of different papers, and it was evident he knew nothing of his own knowledge.
 Captain Pechell . Is the paper you first referred to published in Brighton? Mr. Cundy. Yes.
 Mr. Wynn . Did you ever say, that the majority in the Committee was procured by bribery?
 Mr. Cundy . I certainly never said so. Ordered to withdraw.
 Sir C. Burrell  said, that if it were the pleasure of the House, the agents for the Bill were in attendance, and were ready to be examined. He was anxious to have the matter investigated in justice to him self. The absence of the hon. Member for Wiltshire unfortunately prevented him from availing himself of his testimony, but he had a letter from the hon. Member on the subject, which, as he himself was absent, he should move be now read. "Mr. Cundy called on Mr. Benett to request that he would attend the debate, which was expected to ensue upon the recommittal of the London and Brighton Railway Bill. Mr. Cundy said, that the majority in the Committee was obtained by unfair means. Mr. Cundy stated, that Sir C.Burrell was at first hostile to Stephenson's line, but that he was in favour of it now, as he was to get 15,000 l. l. l, l.
 Captain Pechell  remarked, that something had come out of this inquiry, which the House was bound to follow up. There was no doubt that the decision of the London and Brighton Railway Committee had given great dissatisfaction to the public, and it was not surprising that reports should circulate to the disadvantage of the Members who sat on that Committee. He had himself been accused of being actuated by personal motives with reference to his conduct on the Thames and Medway Navigation Bill, and he had been charged with being influenced by his own interests, for bringing in the Bill relating to the
 261
 Sir Robert Peel  would submit to the House, that it would establish an inconvenient precedent if this matter were to be pursued further, unless some specific charge were made, as it would lead to the establishment of an inquisition into private life. The original charge brought against his hon. friend, the hon. Baronet was a charge of corrupt motives, and this charge was brought under the notice of the hon. Baronet in a manner that it was difficult to overlook. Mr. Cundy had therefore been called to the bar of the House, and he declared that he had not charged Sir C. Burrell with corrupt conduct; he submitted, then, that the House ought not to carry the matter further. A specific complaint had been made, and a specific answer had been given.
 Lord John Russell  entirely agreed with what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman, respecting the propriety of not prosecuting this matter. He must say, that after the letter which had reached the hon. Baronet from the hon. Member for Wiltshire, he was in a manner bound to ascertain whether the party who was understood to have made the charge did make it. The examination of that person did away altogether with anything like an imputation on the hon. Baronet, and therefore he thought that the matter should not be carried any further.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  suggested, that it would be convenient if the House could direct that the hon. Member for Wiltshire should attend in his place, and confirm the statement which he had made by letter. The examination of the witness, however, proved that any statement which had been made to the prejudice of the hon. Member's character was totally unfounded. He should be sorry if the House was to proceed to punish any one without the personal attendance of the person on whose evidence he was to be convicted, and as the hon. Member for Wiltshire was not present, and there was no one who could stand forward to prove the charges made, he thought it better that the matter should not be pressed. If the charges had been persisted in, it would have been the duty of the House to probe the matter; but as it was, he did not know that it had been presented in any tangible shape, from which they could examine into the truth or falsehood of the charges.
 Mr. Hardy  observed, that there was one Member to whom the House had not done complete justice, and that was a Member for whom they all felt great respect—the hon. Member for Wiltshire. In the letter written by the hon. Member it was stated that, in the course of a conversation which took place between himself and Mr. Cundy, he was asked to attend at the debate, which was expected to take place on the recommittal of the Bill, Mr. Cundy assigning as a reason for making that request, that his line had not been fairly dealt with, and that a large sum of money had been paid to the landowners on the line for their lands as a consideration for their votes. The House would therefore not do justice to the hon. Member till his letter had been read to Mr. Cundy, and he had been asked whether he had made such a statement. Mr. Cundy had been asked what he said to Mr. Benett, but he
 263
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  said, that not only the hon. Baronet, but other Members of the Committee, had been accused of corrupt motives, and justice would not be done unless the letter was read to Mr. Cundy, and he was asked whether he had said so or not. The hon. Member then moved that Mr. Cundy be called in, and that the letter of the hon. Member for Wiltshire be read to him.
 Mr. Goring  remarked, that the opinion of the Committee was only formed by the engineering evidence, and it was not till they felt that Stephenson's line was the best that they decided in favour of it.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  expressed a hope that the House would take the same view of the question as had been taken by the noble Lord. The question was, what was the object of this proceeding? The answer was easy—the vindication of his character by a Member of that House. If any man doubted whether his character had been sufficiently vindicated, then he would say go on; but if there was no doubt, then let the House proceed with the other orders of the day. It might be argued that a small portion of time would be consumed in reading the letter, but who would believe that only a small portion of time would be spent in the debate which might follow?
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the House must either believe or disbelieve the statement of the hon. Member for Wiltshire. Mr. Cundy denied that the conversation which the hon. Member for Wiltshire stated to have been held between them did take place, and therefore, if the House exculpated Mr. Cundy, it must inculpate Mr. Benett. Knowing, then, as he did, the unquestionable veracity and integrity of his hon. Friend, he was certainly disposed to prefer his statement; but if the business was to stop where it was, the hon. Member for Wiltshire would be left in a situation unpleasant to his friends.
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that an individual had been brought to the bar as an accused party, and he had not heard the indictment which was prepared. He had not been asked whether the statement in the letter was true or not true. The matter had better be deferred till the hon. Mem-
 264
 Lord J. Russell  said, that if the hon. Member had asked him a question, he must say that the letter of the hon. Member for Wiltshire had put the charge in a distinct and specific form. He had not the smallest doubt that the hon. Member believed those statements to be correct, and supposing that to be the case, the witness at the bar, in his examination, had retracted what he had said. If, on the other hand, the hon. member for Wiltshire had fallen into a mistake, then the witness was exculpated, and it would not be necessary to proceed further.
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, that the witness had not given a single straight forward answer to any question that had been put to him.
 Viscount Castlereagh  observed, that further inquiry was, in his judgment, necessary; and if it should be found that Mr. Cundy had stated that which was false, he ought to be again called to the bar and at least reprimanded.
 Mr. Maclean  thought, that at all events Mr. Cundy should be called back, and be allowed an opportunity of answering the specific terms of the letter of the hon. member for Wiltshire which had just been read to the House.
 Sir George Strickland  remarked, that from the examination which had already taken place, it appeared that Mr. Cundy had spoken merely from common report, and had brought no specific charge against any hon. Member of the Committee. He thought, that if hon. Members exhibited any degree of soreness at the imputation, the effect would be to strengthen a feeling already existing in the public mind, that hon. Members were actually remunerated for their services on committees of this kind.
 The Attorney-General  thought, that no benefit could be derived to the hon. Baronet the Member for Shoreham, by again calling Mr. Cundy to the bar; neither could the House receive any satisfaction from that course. It would be much better to take no further notice of the matter.
 Mr. Hardy  said, that as Mr. Cundy had not yet been informed of the contents of the letter of the hon. Member for South
 265
 Lord G. Lennox  was also desirous that Mr. Cundy should be recalled, if for no other reason than that the letter had been read since the examination at the bar of that gentleman; and further, that the letter inculpated Mr. Cundy, with respect to charges made by him against two Members of the Committee, other than the hon. Baronet the Member for Shoreham. He, as a member of the Committee, was desirous that the two individuals alluded to should, if possible, be pointed out.
 Viscount Castlereagh  rose to order. The noble Lord opposite was not speaking to the question immediately before the House, a question which involved the honour of one of its Members. Mr. Cundy, when examined, had denied that he had solicited the attendance of hon. Members on railway Committees, whereas the hon. Member for Wiltshire, in his letter, distinctly stated that Mr. Cundy waited upon him for that purpose.
 Mr. Miles  said, that he considered the character of the hon. Member for Wiltshire to be perfectly vindicated by the feeling which had been generally evinced by the House, and he should not, consequently, pursue the matter further.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that before the Committee proceeded to the consideration of the clauses of this Bill, he thought it necessary to state to them in general terms the alterations which he proposed to make in the measure since it had been last under discussion. These alterations would, he thought, meet the objections which had formerly been urged by hon. Members on the last discussion in behalf of a very respectable class of persons; he meant the printers of the metropolis. The hon. Member for Chester (Mr. Jervis) had objected to the 180th Clause, the object of which was to impose on printers an obligation and liability with respect to the advertisement duty. It had been stated on that occasion (and stated with considerable force), that to subject the printer for arrear of advertisement duty, of which, in all probability, he was not cognisant, to have his goods and chattels seized, and all goods found on the premises, was unjust and hard towards him. He had always stated, that it was necessity alone which made him have recourse to that or any other step of a restrictive nature; and he was rejoiced to find, on communication with the Stamp-office, that by taking more precaution with respect to the security given for the collection of the advertise-
 271 272 273
 Mr. Wakley  expressed his gratification at finding that the clause before the Committee was to be omitted, and that the word "pamphlet" was to be expunged from the Bill. He observed that the right hon. Gentleman had, in a conversation which took place on a former occasion, promised that the 60th Geo. 3rd, c. 9, should be repealed; the repeal of that Act would remove a great many difficulties, and, doubtless, the right hon. Gentleman would not be forgetful of his promise. It was essential that persons should know distinctly what a newspaper was, in order that when publishing a history they might not be liable to the consequences which attached to the printing of a newspaper. He hoped that the Session would not pass without a Copyright Bill being brought into that House and carried through it. The question of such a measure was a very important one; the property of individuals
 274
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to ask his right hon. Friend how they were to come at those printers who had not their names registered at the Stamp-office, and who might be engaged in printing unstamped publications?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that they must proceed against them as well as they could; just in the same way as when information was received of the existence of an illicit still.
 Mr. C. Buller  trusted, that some measure would be passed for preventing the news contained in such papers as  The Times Morning Chronicle
 Mr. Wakley  observed, with respect to what had been said by the hon. Member for Cambridge, that the printing presses were now liable to be seized if they were not registered, so that by leaving the law as it stood, the difficulty which the hon. Member apprehended would be obviated.
 Mr. Hume  admitted that the Bill had received considerable modification; but it was evident that it took a long time to wring any thing from the Excise. For his part, he wished to see the Excise abolished altogether. He was persuaded it might be most advantageously dispensed with. He was exceedingly sorry to see the House shutting the door against a free press; for it was evident that the object of the Bill was to put down an unstamped press. For a paltry penny tax the reign of ignorance was to be maintained throughout the land. In the unparalleled situation in which we were, the revenue in so flourishing a condition, the time of the House was wasted for a very paltry consideration. If Government were to get rid of all the
 275
 Mr. Grote  cordially concurred in all that had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex. He entertained more repugnant feelings towards the present Bill, than almost to any measure which had ever come under his consideration; and he trusted the time would soon arrive when the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would propose the abolition of the penny duty, and thereby remove every obstacle to the diffusion of knowledge throughout the country.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had another clause, with respect to which he felt it necessary to say a word or two in explanation. Many representations, had been made to him to induce him to reduce the stamp on newspapers published in Ireland from one penny to one halfpenny, but several reasons had led him to resist the applications. He was bound, however, to admit that there was something in the strong and serious remonstrance made to him by the Irish newspaper proprietors, and he had stated to the parties who applied to him that he would make some concession to the Irish newspapers in the advertisement duty. The House was well aware that the duty at present imposed upon newspapers in Ireland was two-pence, upon which a discount was allowed of twenty-five per cent. If, therefore, the duty were now reduced to one penny, and the discount not continued, the actual reduction afforded to the Irish newspapers would be only three farthings. Now three farthings was not an amount that the publishers could charge upon the price of their paper, and it would consequently happen that whilst they received only the advantage of three farthings in the reduction of the duty, they would be obliged to give an advantage of one penny in the price charged to their purchasers. By this means they
 276
 Mr. Hume  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider his arrangement, and not establish such an inequality of duties as he contemplated throughout the three kingdoms. He would rather see the whole duty abolished altogether, than sanction such haggling about a penny for England and Scotland, and three farthings for Ireland. He wished to know why the Chancellor of the Exchequer tolerated the idea of such partial and unequal legislation for one part of the United Kingdom?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that in the remission of duty in England and Scotland, there was a positive and absolute advantage given both to the public and the proprietary, Here both would be gainers; but in Ireland the case would be otherwise, and while the public would gain a penny, the proprietors would lose a farthing. He felt quite as much as the hon. Member the consistency and convenience of establishing equal laws for the three kingdoms, but he felt it more imperative (looking to the state of the existing laws) to do equal justice to those whose property would be affected by those laws. He had, therefore, in retaining the penny stamp for Ireland, determined on allowing the twenty-five per cent., as, without doing so, he felt he would be committing a great injury, and inflicting a serious wrong on the Irish proprietors. But he did not make this arrangement for the sole advantage of the proprietors; he
 277
 Mr. Pryme  could not see why there should be less duty paid in Ireland than in England, or why the Chancellor of the Exchequer should now fix on a less duty for Ireland than the one originally proposed. The proposal was entirely his own, yet the right hon. Gentleman had the inconsistency to alter it, and disarrange the equality of the plan of revenue which they were prepared to agree to, as intended to operate alike on all parts of the kingdom. He called on the House not to sanction a scheme which went to extend an indulgence to Ireland that was not also granted to the press and the public of England and Scotland.
 Mr. George F. Young  agreed with the hon. Member for Cambridge. He thought these boons and concessions were very unjust and unstatesmanlike. If they went further in their partial legislation and indulgence to Ireland, it would soon be necessary to raise the cry of "Justice to England." He called on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to assimilate the duties on stamps in every part of the country, if he wished to satisfy the people, and do justice to the press of the empire.
 Mr. Robinson  confessed he could not gee the reason of the arrangement. He thought the Chancellor ought to make the duties equal everywhere, and allow the proprietors in Ireland to get what they could from their customers. The House, in framing equal laws, had nothing to do with the results, and need not enter into the subject of proprietors' profits, or interfere in the private bargains which the parties might be inclined to make, and which would of course be determined by the value of the article.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Irish papers were peculiarly circumstanced, and could not be compared to the English as to their capability of bearing taxation. Their circulation was very limited, and their profits proportionally small. He wanted to make the penny duty there as productive as possible. To effect that, and make the penny reduction operative, they must enable the proprietors to make it felt by the public in the price of the paper. In England, by the
 278
 Mr. Robinson  declared he would divide the House on this point, rather than sanction such an inconsistency as it involved.
 Mr. Baines  reminded the House that the irregularity in the Irish duty had prevailed before this Bill was framed, and that Irish newspapers stood more in need of consideration and protection as not being so profitable, for their purchasers were not in a situation to pay as well.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that it was not sufficient to say that the scale of taxation of the two countries must be the same in any measure applying to Great Britain and Ireland. Before the act of legislation was decided on, they should look to the ability of the latter to pay it. He quite agreed in the general principle that had been advanced by hon. Members, that it was highly unwise to establish any inequality either of civil rights or amount of imposts in different parts of the United Kingdom. But it should be recollected that this difference had already been established as respected Ireland, and it was therefore necessary for them to consider how far that country was prepared for such a change as hon. Gentlemen advocated. Now he thought that the position in which the press of Ireland stood with respect to revenue was one of the cases that especially required to be viewed with an eye to its capability to bear an equality of taxation. In instituting a comparison, they should recollect the large profits which the proprietors here were enabled to gain in consequence of the large circulation their papers have, not only in London, but through all England and Scotland, and in Ireland also. They also derived a great profit from the large number of advertisements they inserted in the ordinary routine of publication of the wants of a wealthy population. Hon. Gentlemen seemed to take it for granted that the Irish newspapers had the same circulation in Ireland that the English newspapers had in England, and ought to afford a similar remuneration. The fact was quite the
 279 Saunders's News Letter,
 Mr. Wakley  said, that by this scheme there would be a four-farthing tax upon papers in England and only a three-farthing tax upon papers in Ireland. Why should there not be a perfect equality between the two? For his part, however, he would not entreat the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to withdraw this proposition with respect to the stamp in Ireland; on the contrary, he would request him to adhere staunchly to it, trusting that that House would relieve him from any further difficulty upon that point by compelling him to adopt the same course with respect to England.
 Alderman Thompson  objected altogether to discriminating duties, and must therefore vote against the clause.
 Mr. Grote  said, that he had given his previous vote under a misconception. His strong conviction was, that the amount of duty ought to be the same in both countries. He would have had a lower rate of duty in each, but as he could not obtain it, he would vote for a higher in both.
 Mr. Wakley  trusted, if he could not obtain an additional benefit for England, he should not act so illiberally as to refuse it to Ireland; but he was prepared to contend, that if the rate of duty were not the same both in England and Ireland, a gross injustice would be committed against the provincial newspapers of England.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  reminded the House of the circumstances under which he had originally proposed the penny duty, and denied that he could fairly be accused of any departure from the principle he then stated. He would only say, that he should gain considerably by this small duty in Ireland, and that if the duty were equalised he should lose from 60,000 l. l. 280
 Mr. Robinson  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman found himself in difficulty in consequence of losing the support of some of his friends, who would have supported a general penny duty, it would only be because he had been the very first to depart from his original plan.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that hon. Members seemed to forget that when his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, opened this question to the House originally; he stated that he intended to give some relief to Ireland beyond lowering the duty to one penny, and that was intended to be a reduction of the duty on advertisements. The Committee would do well, therefore, not to reject the proposition of his right hon. Friend. The Committee should not overlook the fact that if the duty were the same in both countries, the Irish papers would be open to an immense competition with those in England, and therefore a less duty should be taken from the Irish papers than from the English.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  considered, that the reduction of the duty, so far from being any relief to the community, would be the means of scattering abroad a large mass of nuisance, and a large mass of mischief. If this mischief were to be done, however, let it be done fairly and above board, and let them deal equally with both countries. No man in the House was more strongly opposed to the principle of the reduction than himself; but if it were to be made, he would have it made equally.
 Mr. Blachstone  protested against the Irish people, who were taxed to a far less amount than the English, deriving any-greater pecuniary relief, if it were only to the extent of a farthing.
 Mr. Grote  then rose to propose the insertion of the following clause:—"And be it enacted, that in the stamp to be affixed to each and every newspaper under the provisions of this Act, the title of such newspaper shall be expressed in
 281 The Sherborne Journal The Liverpool Mercury 282
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt bound to object to the present clause. He wished it to be distinctly understood that this clause, whilst it imposed a restraint upon the newspapers, was in no respect necessary to protect or secure the revenue of the country. He also begged to state to the Committee, that by the post of this day, a circular letter had been addressed by the Board of Stamps to all newspapers, stating, that any one who wished to have a distinctive die, indicative of their own paper, upon the paying the expense thereof, a die would be at once prepared. Therefore, the only question between his hon. Friend and himself was, whether it should be obligatory on all papers, whether they liked it or not to have a distinctive die. Now what was the argument of his hon. Friend? He said, and said truly, that the House had been accustomed, from time to time, to call for Returns of Stamps, with a view to ascertain the extent of the circulation of newspapers; and that these Returns were delusive. By reason of that delusion, these Returns gave an unfair representation of the circulation of different newspapers, and thereby enabled certain of them to deceive the public as to the extent of their circulation, which materially affected the interests of others on the subject of advertisements. He believed he had fairly stated the argument. Now he should say to his hon. Friend, that the proper way of meeting this case was, not by imposing restrictions on newspapers in order to avert the inconvenient consequences resulting from a wrong step originally taken, but by avoiding for the future to take that step which was wrong. He held it that the Legislature had no more right to inquire into the number of papers which any particular newspaper establishment circulated, than it had to inquire into the number of stamps which had been used in an attorney's office. In fact, they had no more right to inquire into the private concerns of a newspaper establishment than they had to inquire into the private concerns of any other description of business. This had always been his opinion, and he had consequent always resisted the production of these Returns. They were delusive accounts, and could not be relied on. He always contended, and would still contend, that so long as a newspaper avoided the commission of any offence or fraud on the revenue, it ought to be left fully free and unfettered as to the mode of carrying on its own business. This subject
 284 285
 Mr. Leader  said, that according to the provision of the right hon. Gentleman's Bill, it was made illegal to transfer stamps from one paper to another. Now by the adoption of this clause the right hon. Gentleman had the power entirely in his own hands; for the very best possible means to prevent stamps going from one person to another, was by requiring the use of a die by each newspaper. It would not require many days preparation. At any rate he thought there would be no difficulty in providing the stamps at the Stamp-office. If there was, then the clause might be postponed for six months before it came into operation. All the dies might surely be prepared by that time. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that the House of Commons had no right to the Returns of stamps consumed by the newspapers. But he would maintain that they had a right to those Returns. Newspapers were not merely private property. The populations were so much interested in their proceedings that they had a right to know the extent of their operations. Indeed, they might almost look upon newspapers as a species of public property. Besides, how was that House, or how were the public to know, unless the Stamp-office gave a true account of the number of stamps issued by them, that the sum received for the newspaper stamps was not misappropriated or embezzled? He, therefore, could not see on what ground these Returns could be refused. He was the person who moved for these Returns, and he had since received letters from every part of the country complaining of the inaccuracy of the Returns, and accusing him for having moved for them. His answer to the parties was, that it was their own fault —it was their fault for allowing agents in London to take out stamps in other persons names for their use. They could not blame the Stamp-office, but themselves, for not taking out stamps according to law. If there was a distinctive die it would be utterly impossible for any advantage of an extensive circulation to be taken away from any newspaper. The right hon. Gentleman
 286
 Dr. Bowring  thought, that the adoption of a distinctive die should be permissive. Those who used it would obtain credit with the public for their plain-dealing, while those who did not would always be under the opprobrium that there was some motive which they dared not avow, which induced them to conceal the extent of their circulation. The right hon. Gentleman having allowed proprietors of newspapers to obtain that security which the making known to the world the full extent of their circulation by the use of a distinctive die would give them, had done all he could. Were they to call upon every newspaper to adopt a die, they would be establishing a despotism, which was quite unnecessary. Those who used the die, would have all the benefit of a contradistinction from those who did not use it. There would consequently be a motive constantly operating to induce the person who had a great circulation, to obtain a distinctive die. Those who did not apply for it, would be under the disadvantage of being supposed to shrink from that test, as to the extent of their circulation, which other persons were willing to appeal to.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had looked at the question as it regarded the revenue, and next as it affected the proprietors of newspapers themselves; but he begged to observe, that there was a third party who had a great interest in this question, and that was the public at large. It was well-known, that the trading part of the community was enabled to give publicity to the different branches of the public, of the goods they had to dispose of, through the medium of advertisements, and it was also known, that the public decided from the relative extent of the circulation of the papers, as to which paper they would advertise in. The only question, then, that appeared to be at issue was, whether the public had an interest in knowing what papers were  bonâ fide 287
 Sir Robert Peel  did not see the force of the objection made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the proposition of the hon. Member for the City of London. He did not see why, consistently with the alteration they were about to make in the law, they should not go one step further, and impose on all newspapers the use of a distinctive die. There might be an objection to this in point of time, but in point of principle, he thought there could not be any; because, by the 173rd Clause it was made penal for any person to take out stamps in the name of one paper to be used by another. It was therefore required that the party should take out stamps for his own use only. It was also required that a Return should be made of the number of stamps so taken out, so that the Stamp office would always know what the extent of the circulation of each newspaper was. The question whether the number of stamps issued to each newspaper should be published or not, would remain precisely the same, whether the clause proposed were adopted or rejected. It did not follow as a necessary consequence, that if each newspaper were required to use a distinctive die, therefore the public would know how many stamps were taken out. The right hon. Gentleman might still resist the publication of the number of stamps issued, upon the ground that the principle was not a right principle. Whether the argument of the right hon. Gentleman would be a valid argument or not he would not stop to inquire. Be it as it might, the
 288
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had already stated, that personally he had no objection to the proposition; he only wished that it should be distinctly understood that this was not a provision for the sake of the revenue. If the proposition should be adopted, it would be proper to fix some date when the die should begin to be used.
 Mr. Grote  had no objection to an interval of time being fixed when this particular clause should come into operation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : If there be no objection to this proposition, and if my hon. Friend will reserve his clause until the bringing up the Report, I will consider the question; as I shall not myself have any objection to the proposition.
 Mr. Goulburn  stated, that they had now come to a part of the Bill to which he wished to call the attention of the House, because he was satisfied that, if the House considered the subject, they would agree with him in the amendment that he had to propose. The clause now under discussion proposed, in future, to limit the size of paper to be printed upon, subjected to the penny duty, to 1,530 superficial inches. As the law stood at present, there was no restriction whatever on the size of newspapers. The removal of any such restriction had been introduced into Parliament in the year 1825, by the late Mr. Huskisson. Up to that year, it was quite true there had been a restriction upon the size of newspapers. In 1825 the subject underwent discussion in Parliament, and on the representation that it was injurious to trade, and caused a loss to the revenue, Parliament thought it best to take off the restriction upon the size of the newspapers. At the present moment there was no restriction as to size. The present Bill proposed to introduce a new restriction upon the press. When he had the honour, upon a former occasion, of presenting a petition from the proprietors of newspapers, he observed that the size which appeared to be much in use would subject to an increased duty a considerable portion of the press, both morning and evening papers. Experience, too, he remarked, had proved, that since 1825 the press and the public alike had gained from leaving it to each proprietor of a newspaper to adopt that size which he thought best. Now, he considered that if Parliament thought it right to alter the law, this, at least ought to be done—to leave all the proprietors of newspapers upon an equal footing. It was not just to select such a size for all newspapers as would give to one particular newspaper the benefit of that which ought to be a general enactment. When, too, they considered what was likely to be the effect of the intended change, and what were now the expectations of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he trusted and believed that the House would have no reason to reject the amendment which he meant to propose. Now he could say that the real question between his right hon. Friend and himself was this —would he allow the margin in the superficial measurement of the newspaper? If his right hon. Friend would not take off
 290 291 292 Chancellor of the Exchequer
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to call to the recollection of the Committee the proposition which he had made on a former occasion. He stated then, that it was his intention that every newspaper sheet, of a certain size, should pay 1 d. maximum 293 d. d.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that nothing could be more fair than his right hon. Friend's statement. He (Mr. Goulburn) was extremely glad that his right hon. Friend had acceded to his proposition, as he believed it would satisfy all parties.
 Mr. Hume  understood that the additional halfpenny charged upon a double sheet was to pay the expense of postage.
 294
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the duty was imposed upon the same principle upon which letters paid postage. Single letters all paid the same postage, and if a double letter were put into the post it was charged double. There must be a limit somewhere. The question had, however, been already discussed, and settled on the basis of a penny stamp, and if they were to say that half-a-sheet of paper should only pay a half-penny stamp, they would be abandoning the principle upon which the House had already decided to act.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there was a still stronger reason. When newspapers have the temptation to publish double-sheets, they do not do so without giving the public an equivalent. It was not done because the newspaper had double the quantity of news, but for the advertisements, and upon each advertisement the sum of 1 s. d. The Times l. d. 295
 Mr. Hume  wished to know from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what was to be the definition of a newspaper under this Act.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that perhaps it would save trouble if he went through the definition, and stated in what it would differ from what it was at present. He stated on a previous evening, that that would be a newspaper under these schedules which was a newspaper under the existing laws. There was one alteration, however, to which he wished to call the attention of the Committee—one which he thought he was bound to make in justice, and which could be made without inconvenience. He had heard from the stamp department that no inconvenience would arise from the alteration to which he was about to call the attention of the Committee. Under the definition in the 60th of George 3rd these words were included: —"Also any paper containing any news, occurrences, &c.;" and then came these words—"or upon any matter in Church and State." This gave rise to a supposition, that if one were to publish a history of the Reformation, which concerned the Church, or a history of the reign of Queen Elizabeth, which concerned the State, though this was not news within the fair and proper interpretation of the words, it would yet fall under the definition. Now, he proposed the exclusion of these words, as the only effect of them was to bring under the Newspaper Act matters concerning Church and State, which were not news, nor occurrences, nor commentaries upon news or occurrences. This alteration would lead to no possible inconvenience.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there was one part of this subject to which he was anxious to draw the attention of the Committee —he meant the subject of copyright. He hoped that it was the intention of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Rice) to make the protection of copyright concurrent with any changes in the law. They were about to make a great revolution in the mode of conducting newspapers simply by the reduction of the stamp duty, which would destroy what some called a monopoly, but what others considered to be the true cause of the very high character of the press
 296 297
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rejoiced that the right hon. Baronet had made the statement that they just heard. It would be in the recollection of many Members present, that in a former debate twelve months ago, he stated, that it not only appeared just and proper, but that it was a positive obligation on them to protect as far as they possibly could the property that was invested in newspapers, and which might be invested in them in future. They knew, though it might be scarcely regular according to the orders of the House to advert to it, that the machinery of the press to which the right hon. Baronet had adverted was most wonderful. The debates in that House, up to three and four o'clock in the morning, were reported with surprising accuracy—indeed, considering the difficulties of the case, with extraordinary accuracy, precision, and general fairness. This was done at a very considerable expense, and it would be extremely unfair if, after being put to this expense the proprietors were, through the rapidity of printing, to be deprived of the advantages which they had obtained through their own labour and capital, and it should be made available to others who had contributed no labour or capital. He was, therefore, most anxious and willing to devise some scheme to put a stop to such practices. He was most anxious to devise some effectual plan for protecting such property. As to the protection of the title of newspapers, that could be undoubtedly given. It would be the more easy to do this, for, according to the plan of the Member for the city of London, there would be a distinct die for each paper, which would mark the paper. Then as to the leading articles, it was easy to protect them. But when they came to that which was not an original, but a copy, they could not say how many copies were taken from the same original. It would be exceedingly difficult to prove this in a court of justice. Two persons might say they had taken measures to have the same report—that they had persons reporting as well as the others. Now how was this to be met, unless by giving evidence of the notes from which the report was taken. In the case of foreign intelligence, also, which was procured at a great sacrifice both of labour
 298
 Sir Robert Peel  merely rose to add to what he had already stated, that he recollected many instances in which the first intelligence of important occurrences— particularly during the war—were received by Government through the means of newspaper establishments; and often of those papers which were at the time in op-position to the Government.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Paper Duties' Bill.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  objected to the proviso, and stated that, in 1833, a Mr. Williams took out a patent for a certain article; previous to doing which, however, he applied to the Excise Commissioners to know whether it would be liable to duty as paper. The solicitor to the Excise, in answer to his petition, stated that, in his opinion, the revenue laws could not apply to the article, except it was manufactured into an article which could be used as paper. Upon this representation, Mr. Williams took out his patent at an expense of nearly 500 l. 300
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that so far from the clause inducing an injury to the proprietors of this patent, so far from depriving them of any rights which they were entitled to at present, it extended to them a certain qualified protection in [their business which they could otherwise not enjoy. This clause protected them from a tax imposed by the present Bill during a period of two years; an act of grace on the part of Government which the parties were by no means entitled to demand. The fact was this: the patent was originally proposed to be applied to the manufacture of tea boards, bottle stands, &c. which, of course, were not included in the payment of the duty levied on paper; but this article had since been used in the production of an article intended as a substitute for milled boards; and here, of course, as an act of justice to those who paid duty upon those articles, it became necessary to levy the duty upon this peculiar branch of this manufacture; a period of two years being allowed
 301
 Mr. Warburton  thought that, as this clause was framed to affect the interests of particular parties, it partook of the nature of a Private Bill, and should be treated accordingly by the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I believe it will be found that, in various instances, it has been decided, that in general Acts clauses may be introduced saving particular patent rights.
 Mr. Grote  was only acquainted with the circumstances of this case through the statement of his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury. From what he had heard he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, so far, that this proviso would place the Messrs. Stan-bridge and Marshall in a better situation than they would under this Bill be without it. But the question was, whether they were not entitled, in equity and justice to ask for something more than even this proviso gave them? They stood in this position:—if he (Mr. Grote) understood the case—the officers of the Excise had authorised them to manufacture a certain article free of duty. Upon the faith of that they bought their interest in this patent. By the Bill of the Chancellor of the Exchequer this article of manufacture was to be made liable to duty. And this proviso will grant them an exemption from duty for two years, as an indulgence; so that out of the fourteen years of patent right, during eleven they will be subjected to duty. Under these circumstances, and he believed he had stated them correctly, he (Mr. Grote) considering that, as in all probability, this Bill, even with this proviso, would be to them utter ruin, felt bound in justice to support the amendment of his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury.
 Mr. Wakley  supported the amendment of his hon. Colleague. He sincerely
 302
 Colonel Sibthorpe  said, he objected to a bill of this importance being discussed at so late a period of the night. He was opposed to the principle of the Bill, the object of which was to disfranchise a large class of electors. He should move, as an Amendment, that the report be taken into further consideration this day six months.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, this Bill was a decided interference with the elective franchise; for, by limiting the poll to one day, it rendered it utterly impossible for persons holding property in different counties to exercise their franchise in all. He believed that, under this Bill, a large proportion of county elections would be carried completely by clamour. He should support the Amendment of his gallant Friend, the member for Lincoln; and in doing so, he should stand by one of the truest and most undaunted patriots in the kingdom.
 Sir Charles Knightley  said, this measure was introduced for the purpose of destroying the influence of the party opposed to the present Government. It was well known, that county voters were generally in favour of that party; and the object of this Bill was to prevent them, as much as possible, from exercising their elective franchise. [ No! no!
 Mr. Forbes  said, it was right that this very important measure should receive a full and fair discussion; and he moved, that the debate be adjourned. [ No! no!
 Mr. Hume  said, that undoubtedly if the hon. Baronet, the member for Northamptonshire, would bring in a bill to exclude any but radicals from a seat in this House, he (Mr. Hume) would second it [ laughter.
 Dr. Nicholl : I rise to order. I think the question is the adjournment. [ Loud cries of "No! no!"
 The Speaker : The question is an Amendment to an Order of the Day. Since that, it has been moved, that the debate be adjourned.
 Mr. Hume  continued. This Bill did not, therefore, deserve the character which had been given of it by hon. Members opposite. He thought the recommendation of the Committee ought to have some weight.
 Lord Lowther : Undoubtedly, in the Committee to which the hon. Member for Middlesex referred, some such measure as this was recommended. But he believed that the measure contemplated in Committee was far different from that before the House, on the present occasion. He had recommended, for instance, that there should be a polling-booth allowed to a certain number of voters—between 400 and 500. He objected to the Bill, because it gave to the sheriffs or magistrates of counties, the power of fixing the number of polling-booths. It was not so much upon the principle as upon the details—the very important details that he objected to the Bill. He objected to limiting the poll to one day. He believed it would have the effect of preventing a large class of voters from exercising the elective franchise. He objected to the poll being kept open to six in the evening. [Mr. Hume: It has been altered to five.] He could state other objections, but he did not think it right to proceed with such important bills at this hour, and regretted that the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) did not persevere in his motion for adjournment after twelve o'clock.
 Lord John Russell : It was quite evident that the noble Lord had not attended to the details of this Bill. He complained that the Bill gave the sheriffs or magistrates of counties the power of fixing the number of polling-booths. It did no such thing. It only gave to the sheriffs or magistrates the power of making representations as to the number of polling-booths required; it would be for his Majesty, in Privy Council, to determine upon their number and localities. And the other objections of the noble Lord were objections which had again and again been urged in former stages of this Bill, and which had been also urged against reducing the time for polling from fifteen days to two.
 Mr. Forster  suggested, that the Bill should be postponed to afford time for the introduction of a clause, which he had before recommended, preventing elections in contiguous counties from taking place on the same day. It would only extend the time which the elections would occupy four or five days beyond the period they would, under the Bill as it stood, occupy; and it would remove a very main objection to the Bill.
 Mr. Pringle  was anxious that the Bill should eventually pass into a law, but he hoped the noble Lord would take the advice of the hon. Member for Walsall, and postpone the Bill to afford time for obviating the difficulties which had been raised.
 Lord John Russell  said, he should postpone the further consideration of this Report till Thursday next; but in consenting to this arrangement, he must say he thought nothing could be more unjust than the course which had been taken. The Bill had been twice in Committee. It had been discussed when it formed part of another bill, and at the request of an hon. Gentleman opposite, he had made it a separate bill. He was sorry he had acceded to that request, because his doing so had led to an opposition which would not have been offered if this measure had continued a part of the former Bill. The present Bill was brought in at five o'clock in the afternoon; the hon. Member for Cambridge then discussed it, and it had been discussed in Committee. On the third reading, there would be another opportunity of discussing it. He submitted, however, because he never wished to enter into discussions of this kind, which involved division after division; but he did so, reminding the House that, if at this period of the year, they would not advance any important measures, except at an early hour, the Session would inevitably be protracted five or six weeks longer.
 Mr. Forbes  withdrew his motion, and the debate was further adjourned.
 Mr. Blamire  said, he did not rise to oppose this Bill, but he wished to call the attention of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, to the manner in which it would operate upon vessels navigating the Solway Frith; at present, vessels navigating that Frith and going to Liverpool, had no tolls to pay upon the English shore, until they arrived at Liverpool, where they were called upon to pay a toll of 1 s. d. s. d. l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, it would not
 307 s. d. s. d.
 Mr. Blamire  was satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Charles Lushington  rose for the purpose of stating, that he withdrew his opposition to the present Bill, as some of its clauses had been materially modified. His original objection to the measure was founded upon its illiberal character; and he feared that that had not been altogether removed. It was painful to him to reflect, that the Legislature should grant its sanction to a Bill for forming a Cemetery, in which the rites of burial would be refused to such men as Dr. Pye Smith or Dr. Chalmers, and granted to murderers or to parricides, if their friends stated that they belonged to the Established Church. The most virtuous Dissenters were to be rejected and repulsed, while the greatest criminals, if nominally connected with the Church, were to be freely admitted. It would sometimes happen, that the wish of husband and wife to be buried together would be frustrated. Since he had last spoken on the subject in that House, he had come to the conclusion, that he could not continue his opposition to the Bill without doing injury to individuals; he should, therefore, withdraw his opposition. In stating so much, however, he begged to add, that to some parts of the Bill his aversion and disgust continued unabated.
 Mr. Baines  hoped it would be found that some of the clauses to which the last speaker referred were only objectionable in appearance, and he hoped and believed, that upon examination it would appear that a great deal to which exception was previously taken had now been obviated.
 Dr. Bowring  said, there were a few words in one of the clauses to which he had a decided repugnance; he alluded to that wherein it was enacted, that the bodies of Dissenters should be decently interred. Of course they would be decently interred —who could doubt it? Then why, he
 254
 Dr. Bowring  said, the motion might be taken, most unjustly, to imply a doubt, on the part of the House, of the correctness of the hon. Member for Wiltshire's statement. He therefore hoped that the motion would be withdrawn.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that all persons must approve of undertakings such as that, provided they were liberally conducted. He thought that the whole of the ground ought to be consecrated, for it was surely not fitting that one portion should be considered more holy than another, or that any distinction as to their burial places should exist between Dissenters and members of the Established Church. Of course every one desired to see cemeteries removed out of London, but he earnestly desired to see Roman Catholics and Dissenters in this country placed upon the same footing that they were in Ireland, as regarded the rites of burial.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had not only given the subject to which the hon. Baronet had referred his fullest and most anxious consideration, but he had actually received the draft of a distinct and separate Bill, with a view to that object, from the editors of the London journals themselves. On receiving that draft, he had placed it in the hands of his hon. and learned Friends, the law-officers of the Crown; in order to ascertain from them whether or not it was calculated to effect the object the Bill itself professed to have in view. The result of that reference he had communicated to the London press generally, but to the two letters he had written on the subject, he had not received any answer. It would have been most gratifying to him to have been enabled to propose a plan to secure to the parties the full benefit of the talent and capital so employed, but the plan suggested, and referred to the law-officers, was so imperfect, that it was impossible to propose it to the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that on the grounds he had stated on a former occasion, he was not at present prepared to propose any reduction of the
 267
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  submitted to the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that if the course he proposed was taken, it would imply a charge against the hon. Member for Wiltshire, which he was called upon to answer. He (Mr. Rice) was an old and attached friend to the hon. Member for Wiltshire, and nothing was further from his intention than to impute, by the vote he had given, the slightest blame, or to cast the least stigma upon the character of his hon. Friend. He (Mr. Rice) entreated the hon. Gentlemen opposite, to look at the effect of his motion. It would give, if carried, currency and sanction to that which did not exist in the mind of any Member of the House—viz., that the hon. Member had some charge to answer. Nothing, he was sure, could be further from the intentions of both sides of the House, than to convey such an implication; and he was satisfied no course could be pursued more entirely contrary to the views and feelings of the House than that proposed.
 Sir Charles Burrell  was sure, that if the statement of the hon. Member for Will-shire had been in the slightest degree contradicted, that hon. Member would not fail to vindicate his character. He trusted, how-ever, that the hon. Member (Mr. Miles) would not persevere in pressing his motion, as he had that morning received a letter from the hon. Member for Wiltshire, stating his inability to attend in the House, in con sequence of ill health.
 Sir C. Knightley  wished to know from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, from the great increase to the revenue, which he seemed to anticipate from the reduction of the newspaper stamps, he was prepared to take off the duty on soap?
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that before the House resolved itself into Committee on the Stamp Duties Bill, he was anxious to inquire from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was his intention to propose any clause in that Bill to secure the copyright to the existing London journals of their articles of intelligence, of reports of the debates in Parliament, and of their leading articles. His right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had, on a former occasion, expressed his readiness to receive any suggestion in this respect which might be made, but he (Sir R. Inglis) was wholly unprepared with any proposition. He had not communicated with any person connected with the periodical press on this subject, but on general principles he thought some security should be given to talent and capital in this respect. He therefore begged to inquire from his right hon. Friend, whether he had framed any clause having for its object the protection, in the respect he had stated, to the talents and enterprise of the periodical press of the metropolis?
 Mr. William Williams  had no objection to the general enactments, of the Bill, but he would wish that the freemen, who, as in the case of Coventry, had a great interest in the corporate property, should be allowed to vote for trustees. If the right hon. Baronet opposite would move, that the freemen of Coventry should have a
 335
 Mr. Vernon Smith  had no such intention.
 Mr. Hume  hoped the noble Lord would not press this Bill. This was only one of three Bills, two of which had been brought forward only a few days ago. If the noble Lord pressed the order of the day, he
 343
 Lord John Russell  could not acquiesce in the suggestion of the hon. Member. It was useless to postpone the Bill for a few nights. If the question was between not reading the Bill to-night and postponing it till next session, he should prefer the latter.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was impossible that the Bill could pass, and if the noble Lord expected it to pass to-night he would find himself very much mistaken, and if it did pass it would do great injury to the cause which the noble Lord professed to advocate. The country had his Majesty's recommendation, and the pledges of the noble Lord and his predecessors, as to the removal of the church rate, which produced differences in parishes tending to place the Church itself in danger. From anything he could learn from persons in the Church, the measure brought forward by the Government was deemed harsh and ill-considered. The dissenting interest and many church men desired a reform; and if this Bill went elsewhere, it would be found too good not to come back. He entreated the noble Lord to listen to what he said, and not only he, but almost every body on that side of the House. This was only part of a system of reform, and in order to give his Majesty's Ministers an opportunity for reconsideration, he moved that the third reading of this Bill be postponed till this day fortnight.
 The Speaker  said, it would be more regular if the order of the day were first read.
 Mr. Lennard  complained that this question, which formed a whole, had been brought forward in different Bills, so as to make it embarrassing to collect the entire scope of the Government. The present Bill professed to regulate and fix the future incomes of the Bishops. Another Bill was before the House, which gave the Bishops a great increase of patronage. Suppose the Lords rejected this Bill, and passed that giving the patronage? There were many defects which might be seen if the measure came forward at once, but which escaped notice when the details were thus dispersed. There was yet a want of information to enable Parliament to legis-
 344 l., in commendam; l. l. l.; l., l., l., l., l. l.
 Sir Robert H. Inglis  said, it was clear that this Bill did not satisfy two large bodies in this House: for the one, it went too far; for the other, not far enough. He opposed it, because it gave a vantage ground to those who thought that it did not go far enough, and who, in his judgment, sought the overthrow of the whole system of the Church. For the first time, in respect to England, by an Act of the Legislature, unsanctioned by the Church itself, it recognised the principle, that Church property was public property. He was himself very unwilling to occupy the attention of the House; but he was still more unwilling to admit such a Bill to pass without finally recording his opposition to its principles and its provisions. On two former occasions, indeed, he had requested the attention of the House to his opinions upon the subject; but on those occasions he had expressed rather the respectful sorrow
 345 346 347 res integra, 348 assign l. 349
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  denied the inde-
 350 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Charles Buller : I wish, Sir, to call the attention of the House and of the country to the extraordinary position in which his Majesty's Ministers have placed themselves by hurrying on this Bill in so astonishing a manner; for I will venture
 351 352
 Lord John Russell : Sir, I feel that, after what has fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just gat down,
 353 354 l., l.; l. l., l.; l.; l.; l. 355 l. l. l. l., l. l.; l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. 356
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he was unwilling to rise, from an apprehension that what he thought it necessary to say might expose him to misconception. The hon. Gentleman opposite (the Member for Liskeard) had seemed to argue as if the introduction of the present measure ought to be regarded in the light of a great political triumph to the opposition. There was not the least foundation for any such opinion; he himself had not the slightest interest in the result, and he could not look upon the proceeding at all in the light of a concession. The hon. Member for Liskeard had spoken of the present proceeding as apolitical manœuvre which had proved quite successful—it was no such thing. He and his friends were no parties to the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. When he was appointed to the chief office in the Administration by the Crown, he advised the Crown, seeing a strong feeling in favour of reform in the Church—to issue a commission, and he did so in the full conviction that a reform which was sanctioned by the heads of the Church, which had the weight of their authority, and came recommended by
 357 bona fide 358 l. l.
 Viscount Ebrington  would support the third reading of the Bill, because he concurred in its general principles and objects, though there were some of the details which did not meet his approbation. He would have been better pleased if they had reduced the larger salaries, and made a provision to secure the residence of the Bishops in their dioceses when they were not engaged in other duties. He should also have been better pleased if the territorial possessions of the Bishops were to be placed in the management of a Board of Commissioners, and a regular and fixed income paid to the Bishops in lieu thereof; he considered it would be more advantageous to the Church, as it would enable the Bishops to discharge their episcopal duties without the anxiety attendant upon
 359
 Mr. Goulburn  rose, and stated, that the hon. Member for Finsbury having been named by the Speaker, and being in possession of the House, and the hon. Member for Salford having, notwithstanding, made a motion, he did not think, a motion so made was regular.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  proceeded. He professed that, notwithstanding the feeble attempt made by the noble Viscount to bolster up this miserable attempt of the Ministry to introduce reform into the Church, he would not sit in that House another day without expressing unequivocally his disappointment—nay, he would say, his disgust—at the conduct his Majesty's Ministers had thought fit. to pursue. He, at once, acquitted the right honourable Member for Tamworth of all responsibility as to the nature of the measure before the House It all rested upon the shoulders of the present Government. They might talk of the Irish Tithe Bill, and even the miserable pretext, the appropriation clause, as the security they offered to the public of their sincerity, but the Bill before the House would be the true touchstone whereby it would be ascertained whether the King's Ministers retained the confidence of the people. He objected strongly to the constitution of the Commission. It was exactly so constituted that no other result could flow from their labours, than that which he and many of his
 360
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, that having possession of the House, he would retain that privilege but a short time. He had received a rebuke for being too concise in presenting a petition which had been intrusted to him by dignitaries of the Church. He was sorry that the mention of vested interests should have been received with any thing like derision, for if hon. Gentlemen made the case their own they would soon find that nothing could be more dangerous. Whatever were the merits of the petition, the petitioners, both as members of the profession to which they belonged and on the score of private character, deserved the consideration of the house, and he hoped that the allegations contained n it would be treated with attention. He gave notice, that when the recommendations contained in the fourth report of the church commissioners came before the house in a tangible shape, it was his intention to introduce certain amendments wich would embody the spirit and substance of their prayer.
 Mr. Blackstone  wished to ask the noble word whether the two new bishops of Manchester and Ripon, were to have seats in the House of Lords, and what was the tenure by which they would enjoy that privilege?
 Lord John Russell , in reply, said that there was no doubt that the Bishops of Manchester and Ripon would be entitled to have seats in the House of Lords.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  rose, but was assailed by loud cries of " adjourn. continued cries of
 The Attorney General  would occupy but a very small portion of the time of the House, and indeed after the explanations that had been already given with respect to this Bill, but little remained to be said. It could not be denied that the present state in which charities were placed was most deplorable. The object of this Bill was to rescue charities from their present most lamentable condition. If the House did nothing to remedy these evils they would be guilty of great injustice. If they did not adopt the system proposed by this Bill, the consequence would be, that the charities must either be administered by the individual members of the old corporations, or they would fall entirely into the hands of the Lord Chancellor. It was allowed on all sides that these individuals, the members of the old corporations, had discharged their trusts by no means beneficially towards the public. Why not rescue these charities from maladministration? These trustees had shown themselves unworthy of the trust reposed in them, and it was of the last importance that power should be taken from them. What would be the
 339
 Mr. Pemberton  concurred with the hon. Member who last spoke, in thinking it a pity that so much party spirit had been displayed on the present occasion. With respect to the Bill before the House, the question to be considered was, whether it contained the best plan that could be devised for the management of charitable property? The great evil of the old system was, that political considerations mixed themselves up with the administration of funds intended for the purposes of charity. Now, the plain remedy for that evil was, he thought, to take the administration of charitable funds entirely out of political hands; but this the Bill would not do. He considered it very objectionable to make the charitable trustees subject to removal and election, as proposed by the present Bill. He believed it would be found, in nine cases out of ten, that the electors of those trustees were more interested in the mal-administration than in the good-administration of charitable property The great abuse of the charitable funds was their application to the relief of the poor-rates; and as, under the present Bill the electors of the trustees would be the rate-payers, they would be directly interested in diverting the charitable funds from their proper purpose, in order to exonerate themselves from the payment of some por-
 338
 Mr. Vernon Smith  feared that it was an opposition to the general principle of the Bill that was lurking in the bosoms of the hon. Gentlemen opposite that induced them to oppose the Bill in its present stage. He feared that the real ground of the opposition of hon. Members opposite was the elective principle of the Bill—that principle which gave to the people the power of choosing such persons as were fit, from their integrity and independence, to exercise beneficially the trust that would be reposed in them. But the opposition of those hon. Gentlemen was confined to cavil and objection—they had not brought forward any plan of their own in lieu of the present. Before any division took place, he begged to remind the House that they were willing in Committee to concede any points that should be found reasonable. With respect to the casting vote of the mayor as chairman he was ready to listen to any suggestion for the substitution of a different chairman. He would suggest that the council should elect a chairman, and that if they failed to do so within a month, then the trustees should elect a chairman themselves.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  rose for the purpose of moving the further consideration of the Report on the Charitable Trustees Bill, and he should have to suggest a few alterations which it had been considered necessary to introduce since the report was last under consideration. But in the first place he would draw the attention of the House to the principle of the Bill, and how it stood with regard to the details. In the Municipal Corporations Bill a clause was introduced vesting the charitable trusts of Corporations in the hands of fifteen persons, to be named by the Council, and chosen from among the burgesses, and that without any money or suitable qualification whatever. In that state the Bill passed through that House, without opposition to the clause, but not without considerable animadversion. In the present Bill he had endeavoured to meet the objections that were then raised. The House was aware that when the original Bill went up to the House of Lords, a discussion took place upon the principle of the clause, and on the motion of Lord Lyndhurst it was rejected, on the ground that there was a Bill on their Lordships' table, which had been presented by Lord Brougham, having for its object the future regulation of all charitable trusts. That Bill, however, had not been advanced in its stages in the last, nor had it been renewed in the present Session. The clause having been rejected, and no steps taken with respect to the Bill to which he had referred, the charitable trusts remained vested in the old Corporations, who had the management of them, until Parliament should otherwise provide. That upon the face of it was evidently a temporary pro vision, and therefore his Majesty's Government now introduced this Bill to supply what was admitted to be a deficiency in the Municipal Corporations Act. The Bill had been introduced in the tone and spirit of the clause which had been rejected. And here he must say, that it was with some surprise that he found, at this stage of the Bill, on the further consideration of the report, that objections were intended to
 315 316 317 ex necessitate, 318
 Mr. Scarlett  could assure the hon. and learned Attorney-General that there was no desire, either on his part or on the part of those hon. Members with whom he acted, to perpetuate the misrule of charitable trustees. All they desired was, that this should be a fair Bill, and that it should provide that charities should be fairly administered. He protested against a measure of so much importance being i brought on at so late a period of the Session, when it was impossible that it could receive that full and calm consideration which it required.
 Lord John Russell : In considering the reasons given by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), for disagreeing to this Bill, we cannot, I think, lay out of sight the question as to whose management these charit-
 326 l. 327 l., l. 328 329 330 l. 2l. 331 332
 Colonel Sibthorp  had come down to the House with the intention of voting that the further consideration of this Re-
 340
 Mr. Harvey  wished to inquire of the hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith) whether he understood him to say that when the Bill was committed it was his intention to introduce certain words into the 8th clause, to the effect that nothing in the clause should prejudice the rights of parties to any surplus.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the present Bill was the inevitable result of corporate reform, and whatever objections might be urged to it, and those objections were not few, he nevertheless thought that any change from the former system must be an improvement. His object was to see that the charitable funds should in future be protected and honestly administered, and any corruption in their management would not be the less objectionable to him, because it might be practised by Whigs in the place of Tories. He was pleased to hear the hon. and learned Solicitor-General in the course of his speech ridicule the idea of any application being made to the court of which he was so great an ornament, for the purpose of getting property administered. The hon. and learned Member's remarks on that point confirmed the opinion which he had always entertained; but he wondered that that hon. and learned Member, being as he was a law reformer, should have slumbered during two sessions with all the weight of his practical knowledge on his mind, and permitted every opportunity to pass for making some experiment in that House for the abatement of what must be considered by all persons as a great nuisance. The question for the House now to discuss was, to what hands should the administration of charitable property belonging to corporations be confided? In his opinion, that property should be confined strictly to the charitable objects for which it was granted by our ancestors, and the medium through which that property had hitherto been distributed, ought as little as possible to be departed from. If a donor had given land or money to a corporation, constituting that body the guardians of the property, he did not think it would be right to place its guardianship in an entirely different body. Therefore, he thought it desirable, if practicable, that the administration of the charitable funds should be continued in corporate hands. But then it would be necessary that the corporations should be made subject to some supervision; otherwise party and political feeling might interfere in the management of the charitable funds. It had been said, that nothing could be better than to give the mayor a control over the funds. That officer had been described as a wonderfully impartial person, and blind like justice, Now, in
 336 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. 337 minus s. d. s. d.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  admitted, that f no bill on this subject passed into law, the result would be a series of expensive suits in Chancery, by which the objects of the charities would be greatly prejudiced. On the other hand, he feared that the effect of passing the present Bill would be, by the casting vote which it gave to the mayors, to vest in them the whole of the charitable estates in the kingdom. He saw nothing improper in the proposal to allow the late corporators to have the control of charitable property for one year longer.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that the professed object of the Bill was to relieve charitable trustees from being swayed by political influence, if the Bill had that effect, he certainly should have felt bound to support it. He regretted that after the most attentive consideration which he had given to the Bill itself, and to the arguments of hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House, he found himself quite unable to come to such a conclusion. He felt, therefore, bound to oppose the ill.
 Sir James Graham  thought, that hon. Members on his side of the House had some reason to complain of the statements of the noble Lord. It was not correct to charge those on that side of the House with being pledged, or with entertaining any desire, to uphold the abuses of existing corporations respecting these funds. It was not denied that much mismanagement and abuse had existed under the old corporations, nor that the time was now come when a sufficient remedy must be provided. All that was wished was, that a well-digested, not a tardy scheme should be adopted, and that if, as a temporary arrangement, the suggestion of the House of Lords did not meet the views of the noble Lord, he should, until Parliament should be able to provide more efficient general measures, place the temporary management and control of these funds in the hands of one of his own colleagues, the Lord Chancellor, in whom the noble Lord surely must have confidence, and in whom, from his high legal responsibility he (Sir J. Graham), though not too ready to place confidence in the noble Lord's colleague, was, in this respect, well disposed fully to confide. Why should not a temporary arrangement of this kind be assented to, when the very professed object of the Bill was to satisfy all parties that no political advantage should be given to either party. There was, nevertheless, a very strong feeling entertained by one party, that a predominance would, in point of fact, be given by the Bill to the party opposed to them. The trustees were to be chosen by the same persons as those who chose the town-council; the town-council was to fix the number of the charitable trustees; the presiding officer of the town-council was to be the presiding officer of
 333
 Sir Robert Peel  was rather surprised at the remonstrance, gentle as it was, that the hon. Gentleman had made, as to taking the discussion of this Bill on the report. If the hon. Member had, at an early period some evening, asked leave to bring in the Bill, and invited a discussion, or had he pursued the same course on the second reading, and given ample notice of when the second reading would take place, then he might have expressed some surprise at the debate being taken on the report; but when leave was given to bring in the Bill after the hour of midnight, and that it was also read a second time on the 17th of June, at an hour nearer one in the morning than twelve at night, it having on both occasions escaped the vigilance of the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton), he thought that the hon. Member might spare his expression of surprise that a discussion should now take place. When the report was brought up at half past eleven o'clock, he (Sir R. Peel) made no objection, but he did take an objection to the principle of the Bill, and asked the Government to delay it, and he had said on the occasion—do not take silence as an acquiescence. He thought every precaution therefore, had been used, that the hon. Member should not be taken by surprise. The question was, whether the House would enact some temporary arrangement, as regarded the charitable trusts of corporate towns, or whether it would establish finally and irrevocably the principle, not only of popular election, but an indissoluble connexion between these municipal bodies and the administrators of those charitable trusts
 319 320 "Other specific trusts are connected with charitable institutions and the administration of charity funds which are under the control of the corporate authorities. Here, again, we find mismanagement and misappropriation to a considerable extent. The patronage connected with these trusts has in numerous in-stances been exercised by the corporate authorities to gain or reward votes both at the municipal and Parliamentary elections. The instances given in the report are sufficient to illustrate the character of the abuses which are connected with specific trusts and patronage. They not only prove that the object of the trust has been lost sight of, but that a provision for the poorer classes of the community in the hands of the corporate authorities, has become a source of corrupt influence." 321 322 323 d. l. l. "We think there is an obvious distinction between a direction to pay a specific stipend for the express purpose of maintaining an institution, and a direction to pay a stipend to an individual without reference to an object to be maintained by such payment. In the former instance we conceive that the payments must be increased to the full extent of the revenues granted, if such additions become necessary for the proper and effectual support of the institution. In the latter case, the whole obligation is discharged by the payment of the specific sums directed." 324 "The last head of inquiry upon which your Committee are to report their opinion,—namely, the mode by which charity funds may be more efficiently, promptly, and economically administered,—comprises many considerations of great interest and difficulty. When it is considered that these funds amount to about 1,000,000 l. 325
 The Solicitor-General  said, the object of the Bill was to secure fair and impartial trustees. If it did not secure that, he would admit, it was a failure; but if it did give that security, he must support it against the no plan of the other side. It was said, that this would identify the town-council and the charitable trustees. He would admit the constituency was the same, but the mode of election was so different, that it would give a full and fair representation of the minority as well as the majority. They were told, that they had the alternative of placing those trusts under the care of the Lord Chancellor. No doubt the Lord Chancellor had the power of appointing trustees, but not,
 334 ex concesso,
 The Earl of Darlington  was desirous of knowing from the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Howick) whether the Agricultural Committee intended to report this Session? He had heard, with no little regret and astonishment, that the Committee had determined to make no Report. He was confident that if such were the case, the agriculturists throughout the kingdom would
 382
 The Marquess of Chandos : It is quite true that I seconded the motion of my right hon. Friend, that no Report be made, and I will fairly state why. The Report laid before us for adoption was of such a nature, that if it had gone before the country as the Report of the Committee, it would have done more injury to the farmer, than anything else that can well be imagined. I therefore thought it my duty—and if there be any blame in doing so, I am willing to bear it—to second the rejection of that Report. When the evidence goes forth it will show, among other things, who attended; and I would much rather stand alone in my opinions than be fettered by such as were offered in the Report.
 Mr. Evelyn Denison  said, that the right hon. Baronet opposite, the Member for Cumberland, had made his speech in the present discussion rather a vehicle for an attack upon the Government than any vindication of the proceedings of the Committee; that appeared to him to afford cause for regret. He expressed his regret that the motion for no Report to be made had been adopted, although he admitted that he did not agree in all parts of the Report drawn up by the Chairman. He feared that the country would be disappointed at the separation of the Committee without the expression of any opinion.
 Mr. F. Baring  could assure the hon. Member, that no delay had been suffered to take place in preparing the return; and the only reason why it had not already been laid on the table was, that the hon. Member had encumbered it with so many details as to make it very difficult to be furnished.
 Mr. Wallace  rose to speak to the question before the House, namely, the second reading of a Bill for placing the Post-office under efficient control. He would begin by adverting to the first Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry, which recommended an important mercantile regulation, namely, the transmission of prices current at a small rate of postage. This, he hoped, would be effected; the question, however, chiefly before the House was, as to the adoption of a Board of Commissioners in preference to the administration of the Post-office under a Postmaster-general. It had been contended elsewhere, that this plan had been agreed to be adopted without due consideration. He considered it his duty to remind the House that Commissioners had sat on this question at different periods and all of them arrived at the same conclusion. There were Commissions in 1787, 1797, 1809, 1829, and 1835, all of which recommended that the office of Postmaster-general should be placed under commission. As the conduct of the Sub-commissioners, Captain Clements and Mr. Gardiner, had been animadverted upon elsewhere, he was bound to say, that he believed they had fulfilled their duty with great zeal and integrity. There were many points to which he wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The first was, the reduction of postage on letters. Lord Spencer and Lord Ashburton had both expressed their opinion in favour of such, a reduction. And the latter noble Lord had
 419 l. 420 d. d. sic volo, sic jubeo" 421 422 l. l. 423 d. d. d. d. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 424 
 1. "That the present numerous complicated laws respecting communications by post be repealed, and replaced by clear comprehensive statutes. 2. "That a reduction be made on the present rates charged on letters sent by the General Post, whether domestic, colonial, foreign, or private ship letters. 3. "That the rates of postage by the General Post be chargeable only according to the computed distance by the nearest carriage- road between one post-town and another. 4. "That letters from the colonies and dependencies of Great Britain and Ireland may be received free by Members of Parliament, the same as if coming from subjects of the King in these countries. 5. "That postage be chargeable to Members of Parliament, by weight, on whatever may exceed the allowance of one ounce each on the aggregate of fifteen letters, presently allowed to be franked, namely, fifteen letters free, if not exceeding fifteen ounces on the whole. 6. "That the terms penny and two-penny posts shall cease to be used. 7. "That the term parcel post be substituted for those of penny and two-penny. 8. "That parcel posts shall be considered elsewhere, as they are in London, as short distance local posts; and that postage shall not be superadded, in future, on general post letters or newspapers, although forwarded through the parcel or penny post. 9. "That parcel posts, similar in all respects to the present two-penny and threepenny London posts, which cover letters and parcels not exceeding four ounces in weight, and which have so long been working beneficially for fifteen miles in and around London, be generally established all over the kingdom. 10. "That parcel post mail bags may be sent by stage coaches wherever this can be done better and cheaper than by horses, mail carts, or mail coaches. 11. "That mail bags may be sent from the General-Post-office in London, as they are in every other town whatever, at any suitable hour of the day. 12. "That all mail bags arriving early in the morning in London, be sent forwards towards their destination by ten o'clock at latest the same day. 425 13. "That stage coaches, having a guard, may be employed to carry mail bags containing general-post letters, whenever the public Service will benefit thereby. 14. "That the powers, duties, salaries, and emoluments of post-office surveyors and deputy post-masters, be denned and regulated, and published at every post-office. 15. "That post-offices in towns be established in convenient central situations. 16. "That maps of the roads of post communication be published by authority, and for sale; and time-bills connected with each locality be exhibited in every post-office, in some conspicuous place. 17. "That a sum amounting to 800,000 l. 18. "That those to whom these losses are attributable are unworthy of public confidence. 19. "That the Crown lawyers do prosecute defaulters or delinquents connected with any frauds or other unwarrantable losses sustained by the public in the steam-packet branch of the post-office service; and also, any other defaulters or delinquents in any other branch of the post-office department, where losses have been unduly sustained, since the consolidation of the Irish and Scotch post offices with that of England."
 Mr. Wallace  said, he should be sorry to persist in any course that would have the effect of obstructing measures so valuable as those to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded. Therefore, he at, once consented to withdraw his Resolutions.
 Mr. Mark Phillips  suggested the propriety of having two mails every day, between London and Liverpool, and London and Manchester. He thought that the foreign letters, which were received at an early hour of the day in London, ought not to be detained the whole day in the Post-office in London, but that they ought to be forwarded immediately to their different places of destination, in order that the interests of commerce might not suffer by their detention. He also suggested the propriety of allowing foreign prices current, to be sent free by the post.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke had
 429
 Lord Lowther  approved of the Bill. He believed there were in existence a vast variety of abuses in the management of the Post-office Department, which, when the proposed commission was appointed, would be speedily got rid of.
 Lord John Russell : I am sorry that I was not in the House when this discussion commenced, but I feel bound to afford such explanation as I can give, relative to the statement of the right hon. Baronet opposite. I do not at all wonder at that statement, although I consider it extremely partial, and likely to lead to erroneous conclusions; and it renders it necessary for me to call the attention of the House to the facts, as they relate to the Agricultural Committee. The noble Member for Buckinghamshire had stated that it was his intention to move for an inquiry into agricultural distress, and the Government was of opinion that, with the many complaints on that subject from the owners, and more particularly from the occupiers of land, it was fit to appoint a Committee. At the same time, in proposing such a Committee, I did not state that there was any great or
 387 388 389 390
 Mr. Hawes  was surprised to hear the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tam-worth, take credit to himself for the assistance rendered by him to the Government in passing the Poor-law Bill. He was in office from 1817 to 1830, and never brought forward any measure for the amendment of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Hawes  said, the right hon. Baronet had rendered the Government no assistance in carrying that measure. All he wished to observe upon it was, that, when it was said that the present Government had done nothing for the agricultural interests it should be remembered that the credit of passing the Poor-law Bill was entirely theirs. He wished also to make one remark upon an observation that fell from the noble Lord, the Member for Buckinghamshire. The noble Lord said, the evidence taken before the Committee would support his case, now what the noble Lord's case was, he (Mr. Hawes) did not exactly know, but why was it not brought forward in the Committee, if the evidence would support it? He was glad this debate had been originated. It would now go forth to the country, that after the parade about agricultural distress, and the remedies that were to be provided for it, the Committee were not able to agree upon any one mode by which relief could be afforded.
 Mr. Hawes  presumed, that if there were
 383
 Mr. Hawes  thought, notwithstanding the many statements into which the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Hobhouse) had entered, that no satisfactory answer had as yet been given to the arguments of his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex. Mr. Barry had not fulfilled many of the conditions imposed by the Commissioners upon the competitors furnishing designs for the new Houses of Parliament. The Lords' Commissioners, for instance, gave instructions that a certain number of rooms, of a certain size, should be incorporated in that part of the edifice which was to be devoted to their use, for the convenience of the Masters in Chancery, counsel attending the House, agents, solicitors, witnesses, &c.; but in Mr. Barry's plan not one of these rooms was provided. When injustice, therefore, was spoken of, it must be taken as applying to those competitors who had complied with all the instructions given by the Commissioners; but whose plans, from not having been taken properly into consideration, had been superseded by one which, possessing some external beauties, had captivated the eyes of those whose duty it was to judge of the merits of all; but which in fact, hardly complied at all with the instructions which had been given. After dwelling at some length upon this point, the hon. Gentleman proceeded to read extracts from the evidence given by Sir Robert Smirke, to show that the data on which Mr. Barry had calculated the cost of the building, were of a most fallacious description. In conclusion, the hon. Gentleman stated, that he had been requested to state, that the Committee of Architects knew nothing whatever of the pamphlet from which the right hon. Baronet had quoted extracts.
 Mr. Hanbury Tracy  defended the Commissioners from the charges brought against them in the petition of the competing architects. He, for one, knew nothing of Mr. Barry up to the time he was called upon to consider the plan he sent in, and, therefore, could not with justice be accused of any partiality in his favour. The petitioners had made it a ground of complaint that they had been put to very considerable expense and labour in getting up their designs. He not only admitted that such was the fact, but, going a step farther, he was prepared to say, that the designs in question reflected on their authors the greatest credit. In the drawings sent in there was marked evidence of a great improvement in the science of Gothic architecture. Although it might be considered improper to particularize, he could not avoid remarking, that there had come from the north of the Tweed one set of drawings which, in point of beauty and knowledge of the art, never had been and never could be surpassed. But was it to be understood from this complaint of the petitioners that all the competing architects expected to have succeeded? Ninety-seven entered into the lists. Surely all did not expect to have succeeded. It was a matter of chance throughout, and the disappointed parties had no more right to complain of the expense and labour they had been put to in the preparation of their designs, than would have the unsuccessful ticket - holders in a lottery a right to seek back the sums they had paid for their admission into it. It was then complained that four only of the five Commissioners
 405 l. l. 406 l. l.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre : Having had the honour to be Chairman of the Committee I may be allowed to say, that I endeavoured to conduct the inquiry as impartially as I could. My object was, that no class of persons connected with agriculture should have it in their power to say that their case had not been considered. It is true, that, after the Report I had drawn up had been read, it was moved that the evidence should be laid before the House without any observations; and it is true also that the Secretary of State for the Home Department supported that motion. He did so very much in deference to the opinion of the noble Member for Buckinghamshire, and my noble Friend expressly said, that until he heard the noble Marquess he was not prepared to agree to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet. [Lord John Russell had said, that he deferred to the authority of the noble Member for Buckinghamshire.] The noble Lord reminds me that the expression he used upon the occasion was, that he deferred to the authority of the noble Member for Buckinghamshire. My Report certainly did not meet the
 385
 Colonel Sibthorp  expressed his determination to oppose this Bill in every future stage, as he looked upon it as highly unconstitutional, and as he had no confidence whatever in the present advisers of the Crown. He was sorry that he had not a fuller attendance on his side of the house, for if he had, he would have opposed the second reading of it to-night.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he had been for a long time endeavouring to procure a most important return which he thought ought to have been produced before this Bill was read a second time. The return which he required would show how many days the different Commissioners had sat, and how many hours per diem. He wished to know if that return was likely to be laid on the table of the House, and when.
 Mr. Ashford Sanford  said, that, as he had understood the matter the discussion in the Committee was, not as to whether the Report prepared by the Chairman should be received, but whether there should be any Report at all. He was of opinion that the landowners would find their interests not improved by the constant agitation of this question, as it would necessarily deter persons from vesting their capitals in land.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, it was under consideration to abate the inconvenience usually felt from the detention of foreign letters in London, during the whole day; it was not, however, without difficulty that such an arrangement could be made. When the Bill came into Committee, he would explain why it was, that the Commissioners were strongly of opinion, that a person at the head of the Post-office department, should have a seat in the House. He anticipated considerable public advantage from the transfer of steam packets from the Post-office to the Admiralty. He was of opinion, that much benefit would result to the public, when the steam-packets were provided for out of the navy estimates, from the strict scrutiny to which those annual votes were subjected in this House.
 The Speaker .—I do not know what can be meant by the words "relief and redress" in this case, but the asking for a grant of money. I apprehend that there is no rule connected with the practice of this House which is more clearly defined, than that which simply declares that no petition shall be received which contains an application for money, without the sanction of the Crown having been first obtained. This is a question to which, in the discharge of my duty, I think it very necessary to call the attention of the House, because a practice has lately grown up in the instances of a variety of petitions which have been presented, of carefully keeping out of view the term "money," and then proposing to refer these petitions to the consideration of the House. These petitions have been renewed under these circumstances, and the consent or recommendation of the Crown has been evaded and dispensed with; not only by thus reviving the petitions, but by the division of Committees. I say this the rather, because I have had my attention called to the subject. I have looked back to several of these petitions, and I apprehend there has been an irregularity in our proceedings which renders it the more necessary we should revive that practice.
 The Speaker .—I do not mean to enter into the general merits of the case to which this petition refers; but I would throw out a suggestion for the consideration of the House, which it appears to me may obviate any difficulty which may exist. Perhaps it will be more convenient, if the petition be received, that some memorandum should be put on record, that it is received only in so far as it does not relate to an application for public money.
 Mr. Wilks  agreed in what had fallen from the Chair, but he thought it would be drawing the rule too strictly to apply it in the present instance, when the prayer of the petition was for an investigation to clear the petitioner's character.
 Mr. Wilks  presented a petition from Clotworthy Dobbin Devitt, late of the General Post-office, Dublin, stating that he had held a confidential situation in the General Post-office of Ireland for about seventeen years, during which time his conduct, in the faithful discharge of his duty, met with the united approbation of the Postmaster-General, the Earls O'Neill and Rosse, under whom he served; that about November, 1829, the petitioner, in the exercise of his official duties, discovered a system of fraud and peculation carrying on in some of the branches of the Post-office departments, whereby the revenue thereof was purloined; that on such discovery petitioner instantly reported the matter to the Chief Clerk in his department, and also the Earl of Rosse, the then acting Postmaster General, who immediately caused an investigation into the charges brought by petitioner, when it appeared that persons holding some of the highest offices of trust under the Postmasters-General were deeply implicated, and that the public had lost upwards of 5,000 l. 379 l. s. d. 380
 Mr. Hume  interrupted the right hon. Baronet, to say, that if any one were allowed to go into the general merits of the question, similar indulgence could not be refused to him.
 Mr. Hume  inquired of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what he thought of the propriety of transmitting prices current, free of postage?
 Mr. Hume , in reply, contended, that the arguments advanced by him in support of his motion had been left wholly unanswered, and were, in fact, in his opinion, totally unanswerable. However, as the general
 418
 Mr. Hume  rose, according to the notice which he had given, to call the attention of the House to the manner in which the building Committee for the New Houses of Parliament had conducted their proceedings, and acquitted themselves of their task. It was with some reluctance that he felt bound to stand up and arraign the conduct of that Committee, which had most negligently, and for want of due consideration, led the House and the Government into a very disagreeable predicament, there being no hope whatever, that the projected new buildings would be ready for two or three years to come, unless some different arrangement were immediately adopted. The Committee, in his opinion, had erred in many particulars, a few of which he would mention to the House. They had erred, in the first place, in not fixing the amount of expense at which the new building should be erected. He had stood alone in the Committee upon this point; he was opposed by them all, and when he found his right-hand friend, the hon. Member for Bridport, against him also, he thought it was useless to persevere. He disapproved, also, of the restriction as to the style of architecture to be adopted. He thought it quite possible that an architect might draw a very pretty picture to
 399 400 Gazette 401 402 l. l. l. l. No, no. 403 l. l. l. l. l. 404
 Mr. Hume : Although the Committee consisted of country gentlemen, in the proportion of, I believe, three to one, and although the Committee was appointed at their earnest instance, I am delighted to find, that the investigation has ended as I foretold. I will only make this observation to the noble Marquess. He hopes that the evidence will go forth and show how far his case has been made out; but the portion of the evidence I have seen, destroys his case entirely. I have not seen the latter part of it, but what I have seen establishes, that the labouring man—in whose behalf the country gentlemen were so loud, who never thought of themselves in the preservation of the Corn Laws, but only of the agricultural servants—for the last six months prior to the sitting of the Committee was in a better condition than for many years past. This is a great ground of satisfaction to me, although the noble Marquess may say it makes out his case for a reduction of taxes paid by the farmer. He can make out no case for the reduction of a single tax, excepting the tax
 386
 Mr. Estcourt , although he did not profess himself to be a competent judge on the subject, acknowledged that Mr. Barry's plan appeared to him to be one of great architectural beauty; but he did not think
 407
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested to the hon. Member to withdraw his Resolutions, on the ground that they would prove a serious obstruction to the measures in contemplation for the removal of many of the evils of which he complained.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he felt the importance of the suggestion, but he feared that great inconvenience would arise from sanctioning the free postage of every publication that assumed to be a price current.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thanked the hon. Gentleman for the course he had taken, and informed him that his Resolutions would have been a great impediment in the way of the proposed Bills. The House would not expect him, at that late hour of the night, to follow the hon. Gentleman through the whole of the details of his speech; at the same time he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not attribute his not referring to those details to any want of respect for himself, and still less to any indifference towards the important questions brought under the consideration of the House. He agreed entirely
 426 427 428
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that with respect to this petition, he thought that every subject of the realm, who felt that he had been aggrieved by any branch or department of his Majesty's Government, had a legitimate claim to appeal to that House, even though the wrong he had suffered might be of a pecuniary nature; but he had no right, with a view to redress of those wrongs, to come before the House for pecuniary redress without the consent of the Crown. As the hon. Gentleman who had presented the petition had stated that it was his intention to bring the allegations contained in it before the House, he thought the petition should be received. Unless the House was prepared to act on the suggestion of the Chair in petitions of this description, it would be establishing the most inconvenient of all precedents, as it would open the door to all manner of private applications for money, which it behoved the House to watch with great caution, and tend to great annoyance. He had no objection, as he said before, to the receipt of the petition, but when the subject was again brought before the House, he should be ready to deliver his sentiments on it.
 Mr. Wakley : I rise in consequence of the remark of the hon. Member for Middlesex, who talks of the improved condition of labourers employed in agriculture. I wish to be informed whether any of the labourers were examined, and if they were, from what counties they were selected?
 Mr. Wyse , though generally favourable to the principle of competition, was decidedly opposed to the motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex. It would, in his opinion, be most unjust, for the sake of gratifying the spleen of some few disappointed people, to reverse the whole of the proceedings which had taken place.
 Mr. Ewart  seconded the motion, on the grounds that the place selected was not a proper one, and that the design which had been adopted was not the best that could be chosen.
 Mr. Ormsby Gore  contended that although the Committee had thought proper not to make a report, that was not a sufficient ground for asserting that no sufficient case of distress had been made out on the part of the agriculturists. There was scarcely a tax raised in the country which did not bear directly or indirectly upon the
 391 l.
 Sir Broke Vere  thought the country had a right to look to the Legislature and to the Government for a Report. No such motion as that of the right hon. Baronet would have been made had it been thought likely that the Committee would have come to a satisfactory conclusion.
 Sir James Graham  objected to a discussion being raised upon the mere asking of a question, and then proceeded to observe, that he had made a proposal—
 Sir James Graham  was ready to conclude with a motion, if a technical difficulty were thrown in his way; but he claimed a right, after what had been said, to give an explanation of his conduct in the Committee of Inquiry into the state of the agricultural interest—an inquiry, the magnitude and importance of which he presumed that no one would be disposed to question. He begged, in the first instance, to observe, that the motion for the appointment of that Committee was made by the noble Lord, the Secretary of State. Now, he desired to ask, had Government undertaken the management of the inquiry? On the contrary, they seemed to have avoided any connexion with it beyond nominating a certain portion of the ministers to be members of that Committee. It must be full in the recollection of the House, that when a similar inquiry was instituted during the administration of Lord Grey, a Cabinet Minister presided; but it was well known that the Committee of this Session had not in its chair any Member of the present Government. The chair was filled certainly by an hon. Gentleman who was usually one of the supporters of Ministers, but he held no situation in the Government. It had been said by the noble Lord opposite, that Ministers were at least very constant in their attendance as Members of the Committee, and were remarkable for strict punctuality. Of the attendance at that Committee, as at all others, doubtless a note was taken, and the minutes of the proceedings would show what the attendance had been, and from this, of course, the share that Ministers had taken in the proceedings would be apparent. From the minutes of proceedings of the Committee, it would also appear that Government had acquiesced in no Report being made. He should content himself with these remarks, and proceed to say the few words that were necessary to a vindication of his own conduct, after the severe strictures which the House had just heard. It was said, that he had acquiesced in there being no Report; what were the facts? At the close of the inquiry he came down and found that no plan was prepared; that Government were
 384
 Sir James Graham : however irregular it might be to enter into the general merits of the question, it would be doubly irregular to deny him an opportunity of answering a statement directed against the course of conduct which he thought it proper to pursue during the proceedings before a Select Committee of that House. He had merely a short statement of facts to make.
 Sir J. Hobhouse  wished to make a few remarks on two or three of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex. All the main points of the speech of that hon. Member had been most satisfactorily answered by the hon. Member for Tewkesbury. One of the last complaints of the architects who had petitioned the House on the subject was, that the Commissioners had come to a decision on their own judgment, and had not appealed to the opinions of professional men. Now what would have been the case if the Commissioners had appealed to the opinions of professional men? In the first place, that it was a self-acknowledgment of their own incompetence
 408 409 410 "The author of these designs has discovered, too late, that he has committed a great error in acting upon the principle by which he has been governed in preparing his plans. "It was his opinion that the Tudor style of architecture admitted of great distinction and variety in its application. A course of study, during nearly forty years, had convinced him that it enabled the professor to give different characters to buildings intended for different purposes; that all buildings for civil uses might be distinguished from ecclesiastical buildings, by appropriate characteristics, but he has since been taught, by authority proceeding from superhuman intervention, that the Tudor style is homogeneous; that is, that all buildings of the kinds above alluded to ought to assume one and the same uniform character, and to abound in buttresses, church windows, and other distinctive marks of ecclesiastical buildings. To authority such as this, the architect has only to bow in obedience. "The author of these designs has been further miserably mistaken as to the means of preserving the associations which hallow the ancient site; thinking, as he did, that visible objects were necessary to excite such pleasurable sensations. In this view of the subject, he considered that the east end of St. Stephen's Chapel (a conspicuous object to all who approach London over Westminster Bridge) should still preserve its ascendancy; and the west end of the Chapel and south window of Westminster Hall regain the conspicuous part they formerly held in the view from Old Palace Yard. The Commissioners have determined otherwise, and, by their decree, have resolved that the charm of association may be better effected by demolition on one part, and, on the other, by immuring the Chapel in the walls of the intended buildings. "Neither did the author contemplate the
 411 412 413
 Sir Robert Peel  had heard the speech of the hon. Member for Middlesex, and he confessed it had not left upon his mind the same impression that it appeared to have done upon that of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. Notwithstanding the liberal and extended view which the hon. Member for Middlesex had taken of the subject, he certainly had failed to convince him (Sir Robert Peel) that the House ought now to set aside all that had been done with respect to these plans, and to commence the whole matter anew. In the course of his speech, indeed, the hon. Member himself stated that which would alone be a conclusive reason against his proposition, for the hon. Member declared
 415 416 417 prima facie
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it necessary, as he had been a member of this Committee, to trespass upon the House with a few words on the present occasion. When the Committee was originally appointed, it would be recollected, perhaps, that he had reluctantly given the proposition his assent; and the reason upon which he assented to it at all was, that being perfectly aware that distress did prevail to a very great extent in many of the agricultural districts, he knew with what feelings of bitterness and alleged hardship men who were deeply concerned in these interests, deeply and personally affected by that distress, might view an unconditional refusal on the part of the Government and of the House to inquire into their condition. But well he recollected also that whilst he gave this as his reason for acquiescing in the appointment of this Committee, he at the same time predicted that nothing but disappointment would be the result. He foretold this upon many considerations. In the first place, he recollected the Committee upon this very subject in 1833, which reported its opinion to the House that the agriculturists should seek relief from their own exertions rather than from any extraneous or collateral sources. In that report he had acquiesced, and he remained still unaltered in his opinion, that, let the newly-appointed Committee make whatever report they might, it would come in the end to the same result—and it would be a delusion for them to tell the country, or to hold out a hope, that Parliament had the relief of the agriculturists at all within their power. He certainly could
 392 393 394 395 l. 396 397 "No! No!"
 Sir R. Peel : I did not at all detract from the merit due to the present Government for the passing of the Poor-law Amendment Bill; nor do I wish to take any credit to myself except for not having made it a party question.
 Sir Robert Price  said, that at the time the Committee was moved he predicted that no benefit would result from its inquiries. The very circumstance that the Committee had not been able to frame a Report showed that there was no clearly defined views on the part of the agriculturists themselves as to the remedial measures which would afford them relief.
 Viscount Howick : Perhaps I ought to leave it to the Chairman of the Committee to give a reply, but as the noble Lord has addressed himself to me, I may be permitted to observe, that it was no less a matter of surprise to me than to others when I learned, that the Committee on the State of Agriculture has come to no report, The motion for reporting the evidence only was made by the right hon. Member for Cumberland, and it was seconded by the noble Member for Buckinghamshire; but the Members of Government upon the Committee were perfectly ready to discuss the propositions contained in the Report which had been drawn up by the Chairman, the hon. Member for Hampshire. In deference, however, to those who were immediately connected with the agricultural interest, they agreed that no opinion upon the evidence should be expressed. I did venture to express my surprise, that in a Committee of twenty-five Members, eighteen of whom were county Representatives, no one connected with the agricultural interest brought forward a proposition even for discussion. If, therefore, the noble Lord (Lord Darlington) has been disappointed, from the same disappointment the Members of Government are not exempted.
 Sir Andrew Leith  Hay was not to be held answerable for any Bill or paper that might be circulated.
 Sir Andrew Leith  Hay protested against the opposition given to this Bill, which was intended to promote delay, and to prevent it from being sent to the House of Lords, with any reasonable expectation of its passing this session. He should therefore move the suspension of the standing orders, and that the Bill be sent before the Committee this day.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that the motion before the House was required to complete the irregularities attendant on this Bill. It would be the greatest possible in-
 519
 Dr. Bowring  wished to know whether Spanish newspapers coming through France would reach this country post free?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was understood to say, that they would not. We could not expect that France should bear the charge of the transit of the papers of other countries to this.
 Mr. Aglionby  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to the practice of sending papers through the post with crosses or lines to mark particular passages. That was a very different thing from marking out particular letters so as to make sentences, and thus carry on a correspondence. It was well known that many persons sent newspapers for the purpose of
 569
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it would be better to leave the matter to the discretion of the Post-office, which he was sure would not charge that as writing, which was a mere mark to call the attention of the party to a particular passage. If the making of such mark were legalised, it would open a door to many frauds on the Post-office.
 Mr. Wakley  had received many newspapers so marked, and had never been charged postage for them.
  Mr. Benett  requested the patience of hon. Members on a matter relating to his personal character; which, though not of any importance to the House, was of some consequence to the ends of justice. He had
 520 l. 521 l. l., l., l. 522
 Sir Charles Burrell  adverted to a petition in the hands of a Member affecting his reputation, and expressed his readiness at the present moment to meet any charge it contained. He was sorry that the subject could not now be regularly brought before the House.
 Mr. Hume  said, that having been personally alluded to by the noble Lord who had just sat down, he hoped to be allowed to offer a few words to the House. He had prepared a series of resolutions to move as an amendment upon the motion of the noble Lord, but as the noble Lord had intimated that it was not his intention this Session to press certain Bills he had mentioned, he (Mr. Hume) thought he should best consult the convenience of the House, as well as act most in accordance with the feelings of those around him, if he did not move those resolutions. The noble Lord, however, ought not to have been surprised at the opposition entertained by him (Mr. Hume) and others who thought with him to this Bill. The noble Lord had spoken of the necessity of providing for the wants of the Church, instead of applying certain revenues as a substitute for Church-rates. By the term "wants of the Church," did the noble Lord mean the providing for the inferior Clergy? If so, how could he reconcile to himself the justice of a measure which gave to twenty-six individuals 148,000 l. l. 529
 Mr. Lennard , rose principally for the purpose of expressing the satisfaction he felt at the announcement which had been made of the intention of his Majesty's Government to bring forward some measure of relief in regard to Church-rates. At the same time, the noble Lord having stated his apprehension that Church-property would not be applicable nor sufficient to the reducing, much less to the removal of those rates, he felt bound to say, that if upon inquiry it should turn out that there was not more than sufficient Church property in this country to satisfy the real wants of the Church, he perfectly concurred with the noble Lord, that we must look to some other source from which the Church-rates should be reduced, and thus relief be afforded to the Dissenters. But before arriving at that conviction, there must be a careful inquiry entered into as to the true amount of the property of the Church. At present, the only account we had was rendered by the members of that Church, and we had no means of judging of its correctness. He (Mr. Lennard) would therefore suggest to the House, whether it would not be advisable to follow, in this instance, the plan recommended by Lord Brougham in respect of charities, viz., the issuing of a commission, which should carefully investigate the value of Church property. That being done, the House would be enabled to judge correctly as to
 530 l.,
 Mr. A. Trevor : Will the hon. Member for Maldon state to which of the Welsh bishops he referred as having left his family 400,000 l.
 Mr. Lennard : I said 100,000 l.  Name No, no
 Mr. Chas. Buller : I cannot help saying a few words, Sir, upon some remarks which were thrown out the other night, and upon the present occasion also, by the noble Lord, as to the stage at which the opposition to this Bill commenced. I agree with him, that that opposition should have commenced at an earlier period than it did. I think the attention of the public should have been called to the subject as soon as that Report was laid upon our table. But still, as great advantage has been attempted to be taken of the comparatively late stage at which (as the noble Lord says) our opposition to this Bill commenced, let the House know what opposition has been given to this Bill since it was brought in. On the second reading, an opposition to it had been announced by the motion of the hon. Member for Ashburton. In Committee a division actually took place on the question of the translation of bishops, and on the Report two divisions took place, one of very considerable importance; and I must say, that when the opposition to a Bill has been announced on the second reading, continued in Committee, and carried on to the Report, the noble Lord has no ground for charging us with unfairness in not announcing our opposition. Sir, I have
 531 Hear, hear 532
 Sir R. Peel  said, that some intended modifications of the present Bill had been spoken of; and it was desirable, before they gave their consent to the third reading, that they should know what they
 533
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the only alteration which he should propose was this—that whereas the Commission being composed of the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Archbishop of York, the Bishop of London, and certain others, he should propose that the two last-mentioned Bishops, and the three last-mentioned lay Commissioners, should be at all times removable by his Majesty in Council, by warrant under the sign manual. There was no other alteration intended.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that before proceeding to the order of the day, he wished to take notice of some observations which had fallen from the noble Lord in reference to some parties who had petitioned the House that evening, through the noble Lord the Member for Lancashire (Lord F. Egerton), and other Members.—The noble Lord had been pleased to animadvert with some severity upon the conduct of those petitioners, as having been actuated by selfish and interested motives. Now the House not being in possession of the subject matter of those petitions: he (Mr. Estcourt) for one, not having seen them, and knowing nothing whatever of the parties,—it was too much for the noble Lord to assume that they had been influenced by unworthy motives in the course they had pursued: and he (Mr. Estcourt) had just as much right, in the absence of all information upon the subject, nay, more right, to assume that these individuals had been actuated by motives as honourable and patriotic as any which could influence the human mind.
 Mr. A. Trevor  regretted being obliged to support any motion emanating from the hon. Member for Middlesex; but as he considered the Bill would have a very prejudicial effect upon the interests of his constituents, he felt he should not discharge his duty if he availed himself of the only alternative. He opposed the measure on the grounds that it was introduced without sufficient inquiry, and that, as well in principle as in details, it was likely to become a most dangerous and fatal precedent. He should, therefore, vote with the hon. Member for Middlesex;
 534
 Mr. Ewart  observed, that if the hon. Member for Durham proposed in future to take up that course of politics which a sense of duty to his constituents was likely to dictate, it was more than possible he would often be found voting with his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex. The hon. Member, who was very indistinctly heard in the gallery, then proceeded to say, that it would be with something like regret he should record his vote in favour of the hon. Member for Middlesex's amendment. He had been hitherto a constant supporter of the Government, and he had hoped that nothing would occur to make him alter his opinion. He regarded the measure as a most clumsy piece of legislation in the first place, and in the second as a very unnecessary abandonment of principle on the part of Ministers. It professed to be a measure of equalization, but it was no such thing. All the gradations of episcopal income from 15,000 l. l.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that he hoped the House would bear with him while he endeavoured shortly to express his opinions on the measure before it. But he was bound to state that his opinions were not likely to obtain the support and concurrence of those who thought that rich and gorgeous establishments were likely to advance the great interests of truth and Christianity. From his cradle he had been taught to believe that it was
 535 536
 Mr. Grote  wished to say a very few words respecting this Bill, before it reached its final stage; and as he entertained the far from gratifying conviction that those words, however few, would prove unacceptable to a set of Gentlemen for whom he entertained the very highest respect, it was almost unnecessary for him to observe that they would be expressed with much pain. Upon one point, however, which had been raised, he was fortunate in not being obliged to apologise. If any blame was attributable to any quarter for having deferred opposition until the Bill had reached its final stage, in that blame he did not participate. It so occurred that he had not been present at any of the previous stages upon which a discussion had arisen; and from all he heard of what had then taken place, he had laboured until very lately under the not unnatural conviction that any opposition he should attempt to give the measure, would only go forth as the record of his individual opinion. He had so little to approve of and so much to object to in the measure, that it was impossible for him to vote for the third reading. His principal objection to it was the one which had been already expressed—he meant the truly exorbitant and improper scale on which the episcopal income were to be measured. He looked upon the proposition of giving an income of 15,000 l. l. l. 537 minimum maximum l. l. l. 538
 Mr. Baines  maintained, that the provisions of the Bill were in many respects wholly inconsistent with its principles. The Commission which it proposed to establish would be worse than a revival of the Houses of Convocation: for its powers would be greater. For his own part he perfectly coincided with the monarch who said, that he thought the bishops and the clergy could in no way so effectually serve a state as by praying for it; and he was by no means desirous that they should be invested with temporal authority, and become legislators. He deprecated the ascendancy of the clergy in secular matters. Under the superintendence of the noble Lord at the head of the present Government the exercise of such power might be pure; but it might not be so under future Ministers. To clause 11 he especially objected; for he was desirous that the measure proposed by the Ecclesiastical Commission, before they assumed the character of laws, should be submitted to the consideration of the King in Council, and should afterwards receive the ratification of Parliament. At present there were three estates of the realm, King, Lords, and Commons. The Bill proposed the establishment of a fourth estate, a measure highly objectionable at present, and which might become very injurious in future. By the Bill the average income of a bishop would be rendered seventy-six times as great as the average income of a beneficed clergyman; and the income of the Archbishop of York would be two hundred and seventeen times as much as that of the greater number of his clergy. The complaints of the Dissenters of England and the Catholics of Ireland had at length been, to a certain degree, listened to in that House. With reference to the former, the Registration Bill had been passed. But how had it been treated in another place? Every one of its details had been objected to by the highest authorities in the Establishment. Ireland had asked 50,000 l. 539 l.
 Viscount Howick  said, that with respect to the constitution of the Board of Commissioners, and the expectations mentioned by the hon. Member as to the possibility of a Laud arising to wield despotic power as head of the Church, and a Stafford as the head of the Government, he thought if the hon. Member looked at the power actually given to these Commissioners by the Bill, he would find that they had really no power independent of Parliament, no power beyond what might be necessary for arranging the practical details of the measures committed to their care, the limits of which were strictly defined by the Bill before them; so that no possible abuse could result from an opportunity of an arbitrary application of the principles it embodied. With respect to these powers, it might be asked, what was the necessity of leaving any thing to the discretion of the Commissioners? This was easily explained. The existing bishoprics were all held under the old distribution of sees, and it would be impossible to interfere with them in any new distribution of duties, revenues, and boundaries, with a due regard to all the interests concerned, without separate references and legislative proceedings—all which would lead to considerable delay and embarrassment, unless such a discretionary power was lodged in the hands of the Commissioners as the Bill specified. For instance, it was proposed to readjust the dioceses of Lincoln, Ely, and Peterborough. Without this power great
 540 in commendam 541
 Mr. Brotherton  said, that the chief point left unsettled by the Bill, although of greatest importance, was that of Church-rates. The Ministers seemed themselves fully to feel, that this was the case; and one of their arguments for the passing of the Bill was, that so much of Church affairs might be settled, and a way prepared, that Church-rates might be taken off, as a continuation of the measures of Reform, if possible. His objection, however, to the passing of this Bill at present was, that there might, thereby, be time allowed for the preparation of a complete measure, and in order that Church-rates might be abolished at the same time that the incomes of the clergy were regulated. Indeed, if Church-rates were abolished in the first instance, he should confess, that afterwards he should not feel any great anxiety respecting the secondary objects provided for in the present Bill; and, if the noble Lord would give his word to abolish Church-rates next Session, his opposition to the present measure would be very considerably diminished. The noble Lord had spoken of the necessity of paying the Church-rates out of the Consolidated Fund, if their present source were relinquished, but the Dissenter of Yorkshire would never consent to that. It would be entailing the burthen in a new,
 542 l.
 Mr. Harvey  found it difficult to reconcile the course which had been pursued by certain hon. Gentlemen that evening, with his recollection of what had occurred the last day the Bill was before the House. Either they were in error then, and acted upon over-heated feelings, or they were now pursuing a suspicious course. The Report made to his Majesty by the Church Commissioners was said to offer as large and comprehensive a system of reform as was practicable; and from the grave and protracted consideration which was given to that Report before the present measure
 543
 Dr. Lushington  begged, when inconsistency was attributed to the hon. Gentle-men who expressed a strong dissent on
 544
 Mr. Hutt  thought, that the Dissenters had good reason to complain that in the present Session, no steps were taken to
 545
 Lord John Russell  stated, that it was the intention of Government to bring forward a measure next Session for the abolition of Church-rates.
 Mr. Villiers  fully agreed in what had fallen from hon. Members, as to the extent of the evil occasioned by the question of Church-rates remaining unsettled, but he could not deny, that the present measure was an improvement upon the present arrangements of the Church Establishment. At the same time, he protested in the name of himself and many of his constituents, against its being considered a measure at all adequate to the evils which existed; and if he was not more anxious upon that account than he really felt, it was simply from reflecting upon the circumstances under which reform of the Church at all had been obtained. The Prelates, he knew, could always have proposed a reform similar to the one they were now considering: Governments could always have instituted similar inquiries into the abuses of the Church; but, interested as both were in the maintenance of those abuses, they never did, nor never would voluntarily have promoted inquiry or reform. His satisfaction, then, was derived from reflecting that public opinion had rendered reform of the Church irresistible, and he could not believe that, if there was public spirit and good feeling sufficient in the country to call for the correction of these abuses, and under the more equal distribution of political power which now existed, the means to compel inquiry, the people would stop short of demanding complete and effective reform. The evils and abuses connected with the Church were well understood, and the people had now to examine the remedies which were proposed for their cure; and, certainly, if the people did trace all the evil to the Bishops having too little—some too little
 546 547
 Mr. Robert Palmer  wished to know if the whole episcopal property were to be thrown into one fund and parcelled out amongst the different Bishops?
 Lord John Russell  said, that the mode in which it was proposed to diminish or increase the emolument of any diocese was this:—Taking the Bishopric of Durham as an instance, under the provisions of this Bill, the income of that see was to be fixed at 8,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  was satisfied with the answer; he only hoped, that whatever amount was to be transferred from one see to another, would be conveyed in real pro-
 548
 Mr. Hindley  said, that his only feeling with respect to the Bill was one of dissatisfaction.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that by the Bill it was proposed, that the Commissioners should make arrangements for carrying
 550
 Lord John Russell  assented to the proposition, and suggested, that after the words "Bishop of Durham," the words, "meaning thereby the right rev. Bishop William Van Mildert" be inserted.
 Sir Robert Inglis  wished to state before the Bill was passed, that although he had voted differently from those with whom he was in the habit of acting, yet the reasons for which he had given that vote, were by no means those which had induced hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House to vote in the same manner.
 Mr. Tooke  had given a very reluctant vote this evening. He had come down to the House with the intention of voting in favour of the Bill; but after hearing the declaration made by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), that it was his intention to postpone any measure of relief during the present session with regard to Church-rates; and further, that when any measure on that subject should be brought forward, he (Lord John Russell) did not expect it would be satisfactory, he (Mr. Tooke) was at once determined upon the expediency of doing what he could towards postponing any measure of Church relief, in order that, at all events, the two measures of relief might go on,  pari passu,
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  had voted against the Bill, but he wished to say, it was not from the same motives as the hon. Member for Middlesex and his supporters.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord whether it was intended that the incomes of the Bishops should be limited to the sums now set down for them? Doubt had been expressed upon this point,
 551 l. l. l. l. l.
 Lord John Russell  said, that perhaps the best answer he could give to his hon. Friend was, by stating the contents of a letter which he had received from the Bishop of London upon the subject. The letter states, that in truth the Bishop of London, under the provisions of an Act of Parliament, received only one-third of the ground-rents of the estate to which allusion had been made on a former night; and that the leases now existing would not fall in, in less than fifty or sixty years. But that whatever the addition might be, it would not go to the Bishop, because the Bill provided, that the Commissioners should make new returns, and should from time to time make fresh arrangements, so that the amount fixed by the Bill should not be exceeded. This was the impression on the mind of the Bishop of London, and was also the impression on his own mind.
 Mr. Hume : It might be the noble Lord's impression, but the Bill did not fix the amount permanently.
 Mr. Mackworth Praed  opposed the Bill, as unprecedented and unprincipled; one of the law-advisers of the Crown (the Solicitor-General) had declared his opposition to the Bill, and he contended that it was most unjust, when affidavits containing important allegations in the matter had not yet been printed, for the House to go on with such a Bill, when information was thus withheld. He should move an amendment, That further proceedings in this Bill be postponed, in order to give time for the printing of affidavits referred to by the Committee as justifying their Report.
 Mr. Poulter  denied, that he ever promised to furnish the affidavits. There was no occasion for them. They were taken by the Committee only as  prima facie 552 prima facie
 Mr. Twiss  said, a printed paper had been put into his hands which represented what took place in Court in a manner very different to what was stated by the hon. Member for Shaftesbury.
 Mr. Praed  said, the hon. Member for Shaftesbury, had called the attention of the House to the trials which had taken place at the Dorchester Assizes: and though, in reference to his (Mr. Praed's) former amendment, perhaps the hon. Member was not quite in order in so doing, with respect to the motion which he (Mr.
 554
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the instruction moved by the hon. Member was not consonant with Parliamentary proceeding, or with the orders of that House. He objected to the course which the hon. and learned Member had adopted in his opposition to this Bill, for he conceived, by his own admission, that opposition was not upon a question of principle, but a question of time. The hon. Member wished, for the sake of obtaining time, to obstruct the House going into Committee upon the Bill, and as they had now got so far into the
 555
 Mr. Twiss  could not refrain from making the remark, that the heat and warmth which had been displayed in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, justified the old adage, that "always the warmest in argument was most in the wrong." His hon. and learned Friend had been justified in the course he had taken, for a stage had been gained by the promoters of this Bill during the absence of his hon. and learned Friend. This case was one which overset all precedent, and he hoped would never be followed hereafter by any other hon. Member, as a precedent for a similar act of injustice. His hon. and learned Friend need no other apology for his stern opposition to this Bill than the avowal of the Solicitor-General in his place, that the enactment was fraught with gross injustice.
 The Speaker : It is my opinion that instructions are not necessary, nor indeed consistent with the practice of the House, unless when they are required to enable the Committee to do something, which without an instruction they would not have the power of doing. And the question here is, whether or not supposing the House to go into Committee, the object of the hon. and learned Member for Yarmouth could be attained by an alteration in the Bill in Committee, without this instruction.
 Mr. Praed  said, he had often heard of instructions being moved when the subject matter of those instructions was considered of such importance as to deserve the separate consideration of the House before going into Committee, even though the Committee might be fully competent to make the proposed alteration without the instruction, If it were the opinion of the Chair, that his object could be attained in Committee he would not press the instruction.
 The Speaker : Upon that I give no opinion; I only gave a definition of what I considered to be the object of an instruction.
 Mr. Praed : Then, Sir, I must divide the House.
 Mr. Praed  said, that he had been charged by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with consuming the time of the House for the purpose of delay. He should, however, not be deterred by sneer, or taunt, or imputation, or by clamour, from pursuing the course which he thought it right to take. He now wished to move, as a proviso to be added to this clause, words to the effect, that supposing no final proceedings be had in any court of law setting aside the election by the end of twelve calendar months, all bonds and agreements entered into by the Corporation during the time they should have exercised  bona fide
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would, in a few words, detail to the House the course which the hon. and learned Member for Yarmouth had taken upon this Bill; and he would leave the public to form their own judgment upon it. The hon. and learned Member said he only wished for fair play. That was all that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) desired. But what was the hon. and learned Member's
 558 loud cries of "Hear."
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose only to remark, that it was not fair, nor indeed, in his opinion, orderly, for the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to advert to the absence of certain hon. Members on his (Sir Robert Inglis's) side of the House, and draw from that circumstance inferences unfavourable to the hon. and learned Member for Yarmouth. Neither was it fair of the right hon. Gentleman, after the disclaimer of his hon. Friend, the Member for Yarmouth, to impute to him unworthy motives in the course which he had thought proper to pursue on this Bill.
 Mr. Poulter  said, the second clause depended upon the first, and after having agreed to the first, it was unfair for his hon. and learned Friend to oppose the second. He only wished to observe, that though he did not intend to offer any offence to his hon. and learned Friend, he must say, he did consider the opposition
 559
 Mr. Praed : In answer to what had been objected by his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Shaftesbury, begged to say, that the only reason why he had not opposed the first clause was, that having already, before going into Committee, stated his objections to the principle of the Bill, and the first clause involving that principle, he did not wish to trouble the House by again stating objections which had been virtually decided. As to what the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said, he begged to ask, whether it was not for the promoters of the Bill to produce the affidavits on which their Bill professed to be founded. They were, in this instance, acting the part of prosecutors, and surely it was for them to prove their own case, not for the defendants. Besides, though the evidence had been printed by order of the House, these affidavits were wanting. As to the imputation of delay, whose fault was it that the House was counted out on Friday? He (Mr. Praed) would also say, that if every amendment which was moved by a minority was to be stigmatised as intended to create delay, there was an end to freedom of discussion, and a rule would be laid down which the right hon. Gentleman, when he was a member of a minority, would have been slow to submit to. He should certainly press his motion, for he considered the Bill as most unconstitutional in its nature, and was so termed by the first law adviser of the Crown.
 Lord John Russell :—Without entering into the question before the House (which has already been sufficiently argued), I only wish to say, in reply to one remark which fell from the hon. and learned Member for Yarmouth, that it was not the fault of the Government that the House was recently counted out; that it was my expectation and my wish that a House should have been made, and that I was as much disappointed as any body could have been, that the House was counted out. And I beg to ask the hon. and learned Member who has this night so loudly complained of unfounded imputations, upon what ground it is that he has presumed to make this charge against the Government.
 The Solicitor-General  denied that he had ever thought that the question was one which ought to be decided only by a court of law. He had only concurred in the ap-
 560
 Mr. Pringle  said, this was the first case where the Standing Orders were moved to be suspended in the case of an opposed private Bill. He thought it rather strange, that the promoters of it should be allowed to proceed in so irregular a manner.
 Mr. Pringle  complained of the unjustifiable opposition that was offered to this Bill, and contained statements that were evidently intended to prejudice people's minds out of doors. Among the many objections to this measure was one, that the forms of the House had not been complied with, and he considered that well-founded. He would not, therefore, trouble the House further than by stating, that the Bill was not in a fit state to be carried, and that the decision of the court of law was a strong barrier against it. There was no fear but that the other harbour would be improved so as to afford every accommodation to the commercial and shipping interests, and with this prospect before them he hoped the House would not proceed further with this bungling Bill.
 Mr. Pringle  would defy the annals of Parliament to furnish a case similar to that with which it was sought to carry this Bill; and he had no hesitation in saying, that in Edinburgh it would be hailed with satisfaction to learn that this Bill had been thrown out. Various means had been resorted to, to prejudice the minds of hon. Members in reference to this Bill, and he held in his hand a paper which had been circulated, and to a few passages of which he requested to call the attention of the hon. and gallant Member opposite, in order to ascertain what he meant.
 Sir Andrew Leith Hay  presented a petition, signed by the merchants and inhabitants of the city of Edinburgh, in favour of the Trinity Harbour Bill. The hon. Member moved the second reading of the Bill, into the merits of which he had no occasion to enter, as the subject had been before amply discussed.
 Sir A. Leith Hay  saw the force of the right hon. the Speaker's remark, and would beg leave to withdraw his motion. He moved that the Bill be committed the next day.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that undoubtedly the Bill before the House was a considerable improvement in the existing law; but what he complained of was, that the word "newspaper" was defined to extend to any publication containing any public news, intelligence or occurrences, or any remark or observation thereon. He admitted that the right hon. Gentleman had excluded the words "relating to Church or State," but he had, in common with other hon. Members, certainly misunderstood the right hon. Gentleman on the last occasion when this question was discussed. He did not understand that the right hon. Gentleman intended to fix such limits.
 The Speaker : Does the hon. and gallant Member mean to ask for the suspension of the Standing Orders; and further, that a Committee on this (a private Bill) shall sit this day, during the sitting of the House? I apprehend there can be no doubt that that must be the effect of his motion; and if it be the pleasure of the House to accede to it, we shall adopt a practice which is certainly very unusual, to say the least of it.
 Dr. Bowring  observed, it had been represented to him, how truly he could not
 564 Morning Chronicle
 The Lord Advocate  opposed the motion, and deprecated agreement to it without a precedent being produced.
 The Lord Advocate  presented two petitions from the Dock Commissioners of Leith, and individuals in Edinburgh,
 517
 Mr. Walter  had thought it his duty, having some practical knowledge on the subject, to offer his opinion on this measure on its first introduction to the House; but he forbore afterwards to press his opinions, as so many Gentlemen seemed to consider themselves more competent, and better informed on the subject than himself. In this last stage, however, he could not help giving a final glance at the Bill. He thought that the chief motive which had been assigned for so large a reduction of the duty, namely, that there was a class of people who would not pay any duty, a weak and un states man like one. He thought, also, the proposed restriction on
 562 563
 Mr. Walter  said, that instead of the Bill being that which it was professed to be, a strictly financial measure, it was of the most oppressive kind. He particularly alluded to the provisions of Clause 10, to which he begged to call the attention of the House. It had been only proposed by Mr. Pitt, that two proprietors of a newspaper should be registered, but by this clause the
 565
 Mr. Walter  observed, that when the clause was introduced last Tuesday night, it was at the late hour he had stated. Nobody had expected that the Bill would have been proceeded with on that night, and the clause having been admitted by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he held him responsible for it.
 Mr. Wilks  would take the liberty of stating, that in the whole course of his parliamentary experience he never witnessed a more extraordinary opposition than this Bill had received, and he hoped that House would not sanction such an inconvenience and injustice as the rejection of this Bill would inflict on the promoters of it. He
 518
 Mr. Wilks  said, as the House had agreed to the second reading, and as the object of the opposing parties evidently was delay, he thought the House would not vitiate their own proceedings by rejecting the motion before them. He hoped the House would make an order for the Committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that if they allowed remarks on passing events, it would be hard to say how they could put remarks into a shape that would not be an account of what had taken place, and therefore, unless these words were retained, it would be impossible to have any definition at all.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not understand how the hon. Member for Finsbury could support the statement which he had just made, that this Bill would, if it passed, render the newspaper law worse than it was at present. Under the existing Jaw, any remarks or observations made on any matters relating to the Church or State, brought the publication in which they appeared within the definition of a newspaper. Now, he had left out those words, and he could not see that this omission made this Act worse than the existing law. It was for the hon. Member to prove that it did, if he meant to justify the opposition he was offering to the Bill, the passing of which, he would observe, it was very important should take place as soon as possible.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had throughout this matter endeavoured to meet the question fairly, and he owned it was matter of surprise to him, that after the discussions which had taken place, any new objection should be started. It was now too late to move any modification or alteration, and all that the hon. Member could do would either be to adopt or reject the Bill. He was desirous to send the Bill elsewhere, notwithstanding the remarks which had been made by the hon. Member for Berkshire, and pressed as he had been to proceed with this Bill by persons out of doors, he should on every ground adhere to his motion that the Bill do now pass.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that although he had seen the observations with which the hon. Member for Berkshire had just concluded in print this morning, as he had often seen them before, yet he must say, that the hon. Member's address to the Commons of England, that a measure which might pass their House would not be likely to pass elsewhere, was neither Parliamentary nor consonant (whatever might be the practice out-of-doors) with the usage and practice within the walls of Parliament. The supposition that a Money Bill, in relief of the subject and for the repeal of taxation, was not likely to pass elsewhere, was a new doctrine, which with all the experience the hon. Gentleman opposite might have of the particular subject-matter under discussion, or of the law itself, he would find it difficult to reconcile to Parliamentary practice. But with respect to this clause and another, he begged to say that they had not been introduced or brought forward by him. On the contrary, he had stated from the first, that he would not introduce into the Bill any clause that was not a revenue clause, and therefore when this clause, and that which established a distinctive die, was proposed, he had said, that whether they might be right or wrong, he did not want either of them for the protection of his Majesty's revenue. The hon. Gentleman was in error when he stated that the House had been taken by surprise with regard to those clauses. The hon. Gentleman forgot that they were discussed two days in Committee, and the propriety of their introduction into the Bill fully agitated, and on that discussion, so far from any difference of opinion arising upon them, there was not a single Member who took a share in the discussion, that did not express himself as being favourable to the introduction of this clause. And on what ground did they so express themselves? Why, they said they felt that there ought to be a responsibility in the conduct
 566
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proposed a formal amendment on Clause 10.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the learned Doctor was quite mistaken, that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had taken the largest size newspaper as his maximum, and the only alteration that had been made in regard to the size of the newspaper was, that he had allowed the admeasurement to be taken from the printing contained in the paper, in place of its being taken from the size of the paper itself, which was subject to great variation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the hon. Member that such publications would not be rendered liable to duty by this Bill.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he should not object to the bringing up of this clause, but when the question was put that the Bill do pass, he should either move the adjournment of the House, or take some other means to obtain a postponement of the Bill.
 Mr. Wakley  was determined to take the sense of the House upon that motion.
 Mr. Wakley  protested against the Bill, and complained that he had not been fairly dealt with by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, inasmuch as he had promised to repeal all the objectionable provisions of the existing laws, especially the 16th and 55th George 3rd, and yet this Bill was silent in this respect. He should oppose the motion that the Bill do pass, by all the means the practice of Parliament would allow him.
 Mr. Wakley  did not rise to oppose this clause, but he objected to any further progress being made with the Bill to-night. The definitions in the Schedules made this Act, which pretended to liberalise the press, worse than any existing law on the subject. If this Bill passed into a law, no remarks or observations on political events in any publication could be made, without subjecting the parties concerned in such publication to heavy penalties. He entreated, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman to let this Bill stand over till to-morrow; or he should oppose the motion.
 Mr. Ewart  was apprehensive, that by the words to which his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) had alluded, many useful publications containing "remarks and observations" upon public occurrences would be rendered liable to duty, and thereby effectually stopped. He meant such publications as the "Companion to the Newspaper" for instance—one of the most valuable and useful that was published; he considered that such publications were calculated to improve and enlighten the people, and that they ought rather to be encouraged than put down.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that it was with great regret he felt it his duty to take an objection  in limine 575 576
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that upon one point, at all events, there could be now no confusion of ideas. It had been clearly laid down by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, that it was a spiritual offence to talk of the separation of the Church from the State. [Mr. C. Fergusson C. Fergusson 580
 Mr. O'Connell  begged, in explanation, to say, that in the words he had used, to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, he had not meant the slightest disrespect to any office in the Church of Scotland. He had always spoken of that Church with the greatest respect. He never intended to say anything disrespectful of any of its Members.
 Mr. Goulburn  hoped, that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock would answer the appeal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer by withdrawing the petition. If pressed to a division he would vote against it. He did not think it right to receive a petition when the House admitted it had no power to remedy, and no right to interfere.
 Sir G. Strickland  admitted at once that
 585
 Mr. Vernon Smith  felt it his duty to object to the Amendment, which would go the length of admitting the recipients of the charities to the right of voting for trustees. He thought this had been admitted by all sides to be objectionable. The Amendment would require a complete new machinery in respect to the registration of the electors under this Bill, and on all these grounds he must oppose its adoption.
 Mr. Williams (Coventry)  supported the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Yarmouth.
 The Solicitor-General  opposed it. The
 586
 Mr. Hume  thought it would be better to leave the clause as it stood, which carried out the principle of the Municipal Reform Act, than to adopt the Amendment.
 Sir Robert Peel  supported the Amendment. He contended that no difficulty like that suggested by the hon. and learned Solicitor-General could arise. The machinery was complete as to the registration of the freemen and of the burgesses under the Municipal and Parliamentary Reform Acts. The political franchise had been reserved to the freemen, and no reasons had been given for depriving them of the privilege of exercising their right of voting in a minor, but to them important, matter—viz., the regulation and administration of funds and property in which, personally, they were interested. If those funds were to be managed under popular election, why should not those most interested in that management have a voice in that election? The adoption of the Amendment would not weaken that security which justly was required for the proper administration of the funds, yet, at the same time, would give great satisfaction to a very considerable class of persons.
 Lord John Russell  did not oppose the Amendment on the ground of the necessity of new machinery to carry it into effect, for he admitted to the right hon. Baronet opposite that the existing freemen's roll, with some minor alterations, would effect that object; but he objected to it because he thought the freemen were not the fittest persons to be intrusted with the power of electing trustees. It had been said, their political rights had been reserved to them. True, and that reservation was made on the ground that those rights had been long enjoyed by them, and that no sufficient grounds had been made for their disfranchisement. But this reservation afforded no argument in favour of the present Amendment, which went to confer upon them rights they never had enjoyed or possessed. From the Reports of the Commissioners it appeared, that nearly three-fourths of the freemen were not even rate-payers; were for the most part poor men, and were a body to whom he was
 587
 Mr. Harvey  was astonished that the advocates of popular rights should, in this instance, endeavour to narrow those rights, and he could not understand why it was, that the freemen were in such bad odour with those who were called the friends of the people. He would tell the House that there was more real moral courage in the class now so much reprobated than in that body whose qualification lay only in the amount of their property. It was not correct to assert that the freemen were not interested in the charitable funds, and it was but just, therefore, that they should have a voice in the election of those to whom the administration of those funds was intrusted. If not, there would be a constant struggle between the electors and the elected under this Bill to free themselves from the local burthens of the borough by the application of charity funds to borough purposes. He, therefore, did not think the Town-councils the fit persons in whom to vest the election of trustees; on the contrary, he thought that the power ought to be intrusted to a strictly independent body. He thought it would be much more likely to secure a due administration, if this Bill were allowed to stand over, in order to afford time for a more mature consideration of its provisions. At all events he could see no grounds why freemen should be excluded. It was but a poor compliment to those Members whose constituents were in part composed of freemen, to say to those freemen, that though they were fit to exercise a judgment in the selection of the trustees of the nation's interests, yet that they were poor, worthless, and unfit to be intrusted (being denounced as paupers themselves) with any, the most remote, participation in the selection of the guardians of their own personal interests.
 The Marquess of Chandos  wished to know how long the poll was to remain open.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that it would be open from eight o'clock in the morning till five o'clock in the afternoon.
 The Marquess of Chandos  reminded the House, that during some parts of the year, it would be quite dark before the poll would close. He protested against the electors being compelled to poll in the dark.
 Mr. Hume  believed that, practically speaking, very little polling would take place after four o'clock.
 Mr. Lechmere Charlton  moved that the further consideration of the Report be postponed for six months.
 Lord John Russell  said, if the noble Marquess thought it better to begin polling at seven o'clock instead of eight, and to close at four o'clock, he would not object to such alteration.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  moved that the provisions of the Bill should not apply to elections taking place between the 1st of November and the 1st of March in every year.
 Lord John Russell  said, he would have no objection to limit the period to two months, if the election should occur in the winter.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that as regarded the reception of the petition he would leave it to the House whether a petition that was respectfully worded might not be received and laid upon the table. But with regard to the question whether the House could afford any remedy in this instance, he for one would deny the right of that House to interfere with the regulations and discipline of the Church of Scotland. The Church of Scotland recognized not such a right of interference, either on the part of Parliament or of the Government. On one occasion an order was sent down to Scotland to make certain alterations in the liturgy, and the Church of Scotland at once refused to recognize any such authority on the part of the Crown. He would put it, therefore, to his hon. and learned Friend whether, as it was clear that the House had no right to interfere, and would afford no remedy in this case,
 578
 Mr. Pringle  said, that he could not sit silent after the confusion of ideas which had been exhibited on this subject by the two hon. Members opposite. He would maintain that the Church of Scotland had very properly dismissed this individual from the spiritual office of elder on account of his presiding at a meeting whose proceedings were incompatible with the duties of such an office, and he would further maintain, that the decision then come to was final, and that the Legislature had no right or power to disturb it. The hon. Member for Middlesex was quite mistaken in his idea of the position in which the Church of Scotland stood. That position had been most accurately stated by the hon. Member for Perthshire. While dependent in some temporal matters connected with the State, the Church of Scotland was, in spiritual matters, entirely independent. As to the King's commissioner, he merely sat in the assembly that he might be able to report to the King what had been done. In all that regarded spiritual jurisdiction and authority the King's commissioner was not entitled to interfere. In the same manner, the Church of Scotland was entirely independent of the authority of the Legislature, and that independence was guaranteed to it by acts of Parliament. He must protest, then, against any countenance being afforded to a petition like this, that called upon them to interfere with the discipline of the Church of Scotland. The reception of such a petition would diffuse
 579
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to the Bill,  in toto,
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought the petition a mere attempt to bolster up a case which had failed to be made out before the House, and hoped it would not be received. The House would do best, in his opinion, by putting an end to the matter.
 Mr. Warburton  hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw the petition.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the complaint of the petitioner was, that the Scotch Church had interfered in a matter where it had no right to interfere. The petitioner conceived that he had suffered a great grievance, and that he was bound to call the attention of Parliament to it. He thought, that when the Church of Scotland came to that House asking for money, it, of necessity, admitted the right of that House to control its proceedings where they were irregular and unjust. He was ready to withdraw the petition, if it was the opinion of the Speaker that it could not be received.
 Dr. Bowring  rose to present a petition containing allegations against the superior authorities in the Church of Scotland. The facts of the case were these:—In the year 1820 the petitioner was, or claimed to be, ruling elder of the High Church parish of Kilmarnock, and continued to perform the duties of that sacred office until the 27th of March, 1834, on which day he presided at a public meeting of the people for the purpose of petitioning the Legislature for the severance of the Church from the State. In less than twenty-four hours afterwards he was summoned to appear before the High Court of Session to answer for his conduct, which having done, he was threatened with the censure of the Superior Courts of the Church unless he confessed his fault, and apologized for attending the said meeting. But, notwithstanding his appeals to the Presbytery of Irvine and the Synod of Glasgow and Ayr, and the General Assemblies of 1834 and 1835, he was deposed from his high and respectable situation in the Scottish Church. The petitioner was not served with notice, stating the alleged offence or offences committed by him, nor any reason for such a cruel attempt to disgrace him as a magistrate in public estimation, to ruin his character, to destroy his usefulness, and to lower him in society. And although the petitioner's case is a solitary one, it has become an important and national case, inasmuch as the privileges and reputation of Magistrates, and the honour and purity of the Church of Scotland, as a body, are deeply involved; and he alleges that the latter, through its representations, had been guilty of a gross and daring persecution towards him. For,
 574 instanter status,
 Mr. Hardy  did not see why the House should receive a petition where it could not afford a remedy.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that where a
 582
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from certain subscribers to Mr. Cundy's line of railroad to Brighton, respecting the conduct of Sir Charles Burrell. The hon. Member read the petition, at length, it stated:—
 "That the petitioners had heard, and believed, that some arrangement had been promised, or entered into, conditional upon the passing of Stephenson's Bill, with Sir Charles M. Burrell, a Member of the Committee, for the purchase of the Baybridge Navigation, in which Sir Charles M. Burrell has an interest."
 Mr. Hume  said, that the objection taken by the right hon. Baronet to the reception of the petition could not be maintained. If the Church of Scotland were situated as the Catholic Church of Ireland was, and if it was not recognized by the law of this country, then indeed there would be something in the objection. It was upon the ground that the law of this country did not sanction the Catholic Establishment in Ireland that the petition relating to the discipline of that Church was on a former occasion refused to be received. But if that House had a right to interfere with the discipline and proceedings of the Church of England, it possessed an equal right with regard to the Church of Scotland, and every individual member of that Church was as much under the protection of the Legislature as the members of the Church of England. Various acts had been passed which proved the existence of such a power on the part of the imperial Legislature. The right hon. Baronet had said, that the Church of Scotland was ready to render unto Cæsar the things that were Cæsar's. He had cheered that sentiment, remembering, as he did, how often the Church of Scotland had come to that House begging for money. They granted 50,000 l. l. 577
 Mr. Hume  begged to remind the right hon. Baronet that the circumstances referred to in the petition arose out of a former transaction, and were not brought forward for the purpose of inculpating any hon. Member of that House.
 Mr. Potter  said, that if the Church of Scotland was so independent and so spiritual, why did it come to that House for money?
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he fully agreed with his hon. Friend, the Member for Perthshire, that the House had no right to interfere in this affair, and that it could not take cognizance of a mere matter of spiritual jurisdiction connected with the Church of Scotland. The petitioner had appealed to the highest tribunal in his Church, and he would say, that he not only ought to have been dismissed from his office of elder, but that it was impossible for the Church authorities of Scotland to have done any thing else. The petitioner presided at a meeting which was called upon to decide upon the separation of Church and State—in fact to put an end to the Established Church in Scotland. The petitioner besides, in his petition, stated, that there never would be peace in Scotland until such a separation was effected. Could the man that held such sentiments be continued for one day as an elder of that Church? He would not oppose the reception of the petition, but he hoped it would be withdrawn.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson , in explanation, begged to say, that what he had said was, that an elder was a spiritual office, and that the spiritual court had a right to deprive the petitioner of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the reception of the petition should be pressed to a division, he should vote for it. Though the House might not be able to afford a remedy, that was no reason for rejecting a petition. He hoped that it was not argued on the other side that the independence of the Scotch Church had been so guaranteed to it, that even if it exceeded its jurisdiction, and applied its powers to temporal matters, complaints against it for so doing could not be entertained by that House. He was glad to hear that that distinction was allowed. It was admitted he believed, on all hands, that with the spiritual powers exercised by the Scotch in this instance the Legislature had no right to interfere; but were they to go a step further, and to say, that in every case where a petition prayed for a remedy which the House had no means of affording, it should be rejected? If such a rule were strictly enforced, much of the time of the House might certainly be saved, for it was in the habit daily of receiving petitions of that kind. It was only the other day they had a petition before them (he referred to the Troutbeck case) which actually prayed for a new trial; and upon such a principle as he had mentioned, the petitions of which they had so many formerly, for the repeal of the union would have been rejected. The best rule, he thought, was to leave the matter to the discretion of hon. Members, and where petitions were respectfully worded, they should, generally speaking, be received. If they laid down an opposite rule, the House might appear to sanction,  pro tanto, 583
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , adverting to the terms of Sir C. Burrell's letter of the 8th March, 1835, said, that the hon. Baronet spoke only of the line of conduct he should pursue as a trustee. He expressed his strong disgust and indignation at this attempt to impugn the character of the hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Ewart  proposed an amendment, that public houses should be kept closed until one o'clock on Sundays, and then be allowed to remain open.
 Sir Charles Burrell  was glad to have that opportunity of making some explanation with regard to himself. As to the canal in question, which he had been described as the chief owner of, that was a gross misrepresentation. He could only say for himself that in the proceedings he had taken he had never sought any advantage whatever. He was able to offer to the House the evidence of a most respectable individual relative to his conduct and transactions in this matter; and if it was the wish of the Members of the House to hear that evidence the gentleman was ready to give it at the bar of the House. Mr. Cundy had called upon him, and stated it was his intention to project a railway
 584
 Sir James Graham  was never more surprised than by the speech just delivered by the hon. member for Kilkenny, recollecting as he did, that no subject had been more dwelt upon in the speeches, the addresses, and the letters, of that hon. Member, than the fact that the people of Scotland had, with their "good broadswords," achieved the independence of the Church. Was it for the hon. Member, who so repeatedly referred with praise to that fact in the history of Scotland, now to turn round and call for legislative interference with the spiritual authority of that Church? What the people of Scotland had conquered with heir arms had been recognised and
 581
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that a dangerous precedent would be established if unfounded allegations were allowed to be made as to the motives of Members of that House.
 Mr. Clay  hoped his hon. Friend would not withdraw the petition. The House could not see whether the Church of Scotland had overstepped the hounds of its spiritual jurisdiction if they refused to receive the petition.
 Mr. Waller  said, that though, from the unwillingness of the House to hear all that could be fairly said on this subject, he must omit much of what he had intended to state, this he would say, that Lord Althorp had expressly declared in that House that it was not intended to do away with out-door relief in all cases. How far the practice had failed to coincide with that noble Lord's professions, the petition which he should now
 595
 Lord George Lennox , as one of the Representatives of that part of Sussex from which this petition came, might be expected to have something to say upon the subject. He, however, knew nothing of the petition, or of the intention of the hon. Member to present it, until the present moment, and the hon. Member had given him no notice whatever of the contents of it. He felt that he had a right to complain of that circumstance, as, had he previously known the statements in the petition, he might have been able to make an inquiry on the
 596
 Mr. George F.  Young said, he would recommend the hon. Member for Berkshire to fix a day for bringing the subject of the petition he had presented under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. C. Buller  was of opinion, that much credit was due to the Lords for agreeing
 600
 Sir Frederick Pollock  adverted to the length of time this question had occupied his attention, and gave it as his opinion, that it would be better to leave the law as it stood, giving a prisoner the benefit of the sympathy of the jury at the hardship of his case, than to pass the Bill as it had been amended by the Lords. He objected to any bill which, in the employment of counsel, did not put felony and misdemeanour on the same footing; for, as the present Attorney-General had well observed, the distinction was often so trifling, that the treatment of the accused party in both instances should be the same. He adverted to the heavy responsibility under which counsel now laboured, since they were frequently afraid to call witnesses, and thereby appeared to neglect the case of the client, lest they should give the prosecutor the advantage of a reply. In cases of civil right, injustice was sometimes done, because the counsel for the plaintiff had a privilege to answer the case of the defendant; there the reason was, that the plaintiff was interested in the verdict; but in prosecutions no party was so interested, and there was no ground for giving the prosecutor the last word. As to the objection that the Bill as it stood, before it was altered by the Lords, would occasion four speeches on every trial, he maintained, that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, not more than two speeches would be delivered; the prosecuting counsel would open the case, and the defending counsel would state the answer to it; but the prosecuting counsel would very seldom reply, knowing that thereby he should give the defending counsel the right of being heard again. It seemed to him that the Bill, as it now stood, was worse than nothing. He
 601
 Mr. Poulter  was decidedly opposed to the Bill, and thought, that all the arguments which had been urged against it were unanswered. He still felt, however, that if the existing law were altered, that the prisoner ought to be allowed the last word.
 Mr. O'Connell  fully and entirely concurred in the views of the hon. and learned Member for Huntingdon (Sir F. Pollock). This Bill contained a great deal of useful matter, even as it came down from the House of Lords, particularly as regarded that part of the United Kingdom with which he was connected, and his testimony to the fact, might be considered of some importance, as he had had more experience, he thought he might safely say, in the proceedings of the criminal law in Ireland, than any of those barristers who were of the same standing with him. There was one part of the Bill which would be of the greatest importance, namely, allowing the depositions to be inspected by the prisoner. That provision he would be glad to see passed into law; but if the amendment of the Lords which took away from the prisoner the last address to the jury, were insisted on, he owned that he could only make a selection, and determine to vote for the rejection of the Bill altogether. The present state of the law was anomalous and unjust; but the change which had been proposed would only aggravate the evil. He at once rejected, as untenable, the argument that the adoption of the principle of this Bill, as it had been originally introduced, would cause loss of time. If there were not a sufficient number of judges to perform the business, they ought to make more; but the plea of loss of time ought never to be heard 'of, when such a charge as that of felony and misdemeanour, were brought against any individual. He only rose for the purpose of expressing his decided conviction that the law, as proposed to be altered, would be worse than it stood at present; and unless they determined to give the last word to the prisoner, they ought not to give him any at all.
 Mr. Maclean  said, that though he had opposed this Bill when before that House, his opinion had since been much shaken with
 602
 Mr. Parker  hoped that some arrangement might be entered into between the two Houses of Parliament, for the purpose of securing the benefits which must result from the passing of such a Bill as the present.
 Mr. Hardy  submitted, that if they left the prisoner the last word, they imposed upon the judge the necessity of pointing out the fallacies for doing away with the impression produced by any of the specious arguments conveyed in the speech of the counsel for the prisoner, and thereby subjected the judge to the imputation of acting with unfairness, or compelled him to express his views on the evidence in such a manner, as to induce the opinion in the minds of illiterate jurors of the prisoner's guilt. He trusted, that the amendment of the Lords would not be rejected.
 Mr. Strutt  could not agree with the amendment which had been made in this part of the Bill by the House of Lords, but concurred in the opinion expressed by some hon. Member who had preceded him, that some opportunity might be taken of arranging the differences which existed between the two Houses with respect to this measure.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  thought that the question which had been raised on this clause was a new one, and ought not to be suffered to impede the progress of this Bill.
 Lord John Russell  thought the preferable course would be to do that which had been done on many former occasions— namely, to send the amendments to a Select Committee, with the view of, if possible, devising some plan by which the differences between the two Houses may be reconciled, and the Bill eventually pass into a law. He begged to move accordingly.
 Mr. C. Buller  would, under such circumstances, withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. Ewart  protested against the course suggested by the noble Lord. The measure had been already quite sufficiently considered in a Select Committee of that House.
 Lord J. Russell  was not aware that any such order had been made; indeed, if it had, it would have come under his notice as one of the general rules. He would take this opportunity to say a word as to the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He should certainly have an inquiry instituted into the facts of that statement. He must say, however, that even upon the hon. Member's own showing there was not that in it which he seemed to think. One of the general rules made by the Poor-law Commissioners was, that husbands and wives should be separated in workhouses. Surely it was necessary, when an exception was to be made, that there should be a special order for it. In the case also, it was one of the rules that the poor receiving relief must be attended by the medical
 598
 Major Beauclerk  had been requested to support the prayer of this petition, and he looked upon it as one that was eminently deserving of the serious attention of the House. The fact was, that this subject was attracting the attention of the people all over the country. It was well known that a petition most numerously signed had been transmitted, within the last few days, from the town of Leicester to the noble Viscount who was at the head of his Majesty's Government. The petition in question was signed by thousands, and the petitioners did not send it to that House because they had observed, that whenever the question of the Poor-laws was introduced there, the subject excited the distaste and impatience of hon. Members. The discussion that had arisen on the present occasion would certainly tend to strengthen that impression. He had repeated applications on the subject from medical men, who were not able to perform the duties assigned them in the districts for which they had contracted. They all concurred in expressing their readiness to do all in their power to meet the wants of the poor, but they submitted that, in the matter of medical aid the Legislature should not be stingy towards the poorer classes, who were not able to provide such aid for themselves. He fully concurred in that opinion, and he thought that common justice to the people of this country required that the administration of the Poor-law Act should be altered and amended.
 Major Beauclerk  said, he wished to say one word with regard to the rule in question. He seldom addressed the House, but, nevertheless he was anxious that this rule should be properly understood. He had observed upon late occasions some Gentlemen speaking for two hours together in presenting petitions, and others, on similar occasions, making orations of not less than an hour's duration. Now what he wished
 593
 Mr. Bonham  said, that the House was greatly indebted to the hon. Member for Berkshire for bringing this subject under its notice. He hoped that the hon. Member would not stop there, but that he would appoint an early day for a discussion of the question. He also hoped that his Majesty's Ministers would give the hon. Member an opportunity to bring the matter forward. He said so, because it was in the power of Ministers, at this period of the Session, to prevent a discussion on the subject if they chose.
 The Speaker : I have endeavoured, as far as it was practicable, to adopt and enforce the rule laid down by the House on the subject. That rule is, that if a petition be presented referring to a subject before the House, the hon. Member presenting it should confine himself to a statement of the substance and prayer of such petition. There is, however, a class of petitions often presented to the House, complaining of individual grievances, and not relating to any general public matter before the House. It is the pleasure of the House, in regard to these petitions, that the hon. Members presenting them should be allowed to go into a statement of the facts and arguments connected with them. As far as I am able, I have endeavoured to enforce the rule in the manner I have stated. The rule has been adopted by the House for the public convenience and for the despatch of business, and it is very important that it should be adhered to in practice.
 The Speaker  wished to know whether this letter formed any portion of the petition?
 The Speaker  must again remind the hon. Member, that he was infringing that rule of the House which required that he should only state the substance of the petition and the prayer of it.
 The Speaker  said, that if the hon. Member wished to produce a general discussion on the subject of the Poor-laws, the course for him to pursue was to present this petition, to move that it be printed with the votes, and then to give notice of a day for taking it into consideration.
 The Speaker , interrupting the hon. Member, observed, that he should confine himself to a statement of the substance of the petition and the prayer of it. Such was the rule laid down by the House.
 The Speaker  repeated, that the hon. Member should only state the substance of the petition.
 Mr. John Parker  rose to order. He submitted that the hon. Member had no right to go into these general statements on the presentation of a petition.
 Mr. Walter  said, that he had only referred to these statements in explanation of what had been the law and the practice on this subject formerly. But now, the law and practice turned round upon these unhappy industrious people, and forbade all relief to them except such as they should receive when immured in the prison of a district workhouse, in which they were to go to bed at this time of the year at eight o'clock in the evening, the husband to be separated from his wife, and the children, except perhaps such as were at the breast severed from their parents. The petitioners had already applied to the Poor-law Commissioners themselves for a relaxation of this atrocious and unnatural order; and, procuring no relaxation of it from them—no relief to the victims of it from them—to whom could they fly but to that House—the representatives, he hoped he might still say, of the poor and the oppressed? In addition to the petition, he had also received a letter from a gentleman of the first respectability in the parish, of which he would read a part, as necessary to the better understanding of the case:—
 "I shrink with horror from the cruelties which are now being practised upon my poor fellow-parishioners, and trust that the most prompt steps will be taken to cause a relaxation in the rules laid down by the Commissioners; being convinced, that if they are adhered to, numbers around me must perish ere the close of the next winter, either by want, or by those fruitless attempts at resistance to which they will be goaded."
 Mr. Walter  said, that he should not have occupied the time of the House for more than five minutes in presenting this petition, if he had been allowed to proceed without interruption. It appeared from the statement contained in this letter, that the Board of Guardians had refused to act; and it would be impossible for him to do justice to the case of the petitioners unless he was allowed to state the circumstances connected with that fact. The hon. Member proceeded to read the letter as follows:—
 "One rule sent down by the Board of Guardians is, that no relief be granted to any able-bodied labourer after the 21st ult., however large his family may be; and the only alternative held out, except starvation, is, that the elder children may be sent to one workhouse— the man and his wife, with the younger children, to another; but then in this other the man and his wife are to be kept apart by stone walls. Another rule also is, that no medical relief is to be afforded to the wife or children of an able-bodied man, because relief to them is relief to him. If he is himself ill, the medical
 594 "Daily cases of great suffering are brought forward: one was mentioned to me to-day, of a person lying forty-eight hours in excruciating torture, for want of that medical aid which was refused to be ordered for him by the relieving officer, and which was at length bestowed gratuitously by a medical man of this town, who lives out of the union in which the poor creature was thus relieved, from motives of mere compassion. Under the present system of medical treatment, or rather lack of treatment, many must die. First, the relieving officer is to be found—he may be miles away; then the medical men, who may be as far off in another direction. Meanwhile the father or mother of a large family is dying in agony, or seeing one of their children in that state."
 Mr. Walter  replied in the negative.
 Mr. Walter  proceeded to say, that the petition stated with truth, that at the time when the present body of industrious labourers with large families first married, the law and practice were, to afford relief in proportion to the number of children they had beyond those whom they could maintain by ordinary labour. In fact, every incitement was at that day held out to industrious labourers to marry. For example, it was said in that House by Mr. Pitt, "Let us make relief, in cases where there are a number of children, a matter of right and an honour, instead of a ground for opprobrium and contempt. This will make a large family a blessing, and not a curse; and this will draw a proper line of distinction between those who are able to provide for themselves by their labour, and those who, after having enriched their country with a number of children, have a claim upon its assistance for their support." And Mr. Whitbread, though opposed to Mr. Pitt in politics, said, "As to the particular case of labourers who have to provide for a number of children, the wisest thing for Government, instead of putting the relief afforded to such on a fooling of charity, supplied perhaps from a precarious
 592
 Mr. Walter  said, that he should be most unwilling to transgress any of the rules or regulations of the House. It struck him, however, that other Gentlemen had been permitted to accompany the petitions they presented with observations in illustration of the statements contained in them.
 Mr. Walter  said, that he had been intrusted with a Petition from Magistrates, Clergy, Owners and occupiers of land, Guardians of the Poor, and inhabitants of the parish of Pet-worth and the neighbouring parishes, in the
 591
 Mr. Walter  said, that he should not fail to adopt the advice given him by Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, and that he should certainly fix an early day for the purpose of bringing forward this subject in another shape. With regard to the complaint of the noble Lord (Lord G. Lennox), that he had not been made acquainted with the contents of the petition, he (Mr. Walter) had only to say that he had brought the petition down to the House every day for the last eight or nine days, that he had mentioned its contents to other hon. Members connected with the county of Sussex who sat on the same bench with the noble Lord, and that he had actually given notice of the presentation of the petition more than a week ago. He would
 599
 Mr. Wilks  also hoped, that the hon. Member for Berkshire would fix a day for the discussion of this subject. Though the petition had been signed by labourers alone, it would be entitled to the serious attention of the House; but it was signed also by the magistrates, clergymen, and other respectable persons of the district. He repeated, therefore, that it merited the serious attention of the House. Innumerable complaints had reached him from all parts of the country with regard to the conduct of the Poor-law Commissioners, who violated the principles of religious liberty, and imposed taxes on parishes for the support of the Church. These Commissioners had taken upon them to do that which no Ministry would venture to do, and which no Legislature would dare to do. He trusted that the Session would not close without a discussion on the subject.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether his hon. Friend knew of these facts of his own
 597
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the statement he had made to the House had been communicated to him by the medical man who had been in attendance on the poor woman. He would furnish his name and address to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that it was with regret he saw that the complaints of the poor met with such a reception in that House from a liberal Parliament, and a liberal Ministry. If such was to be a sample of what they were to expect from them hereafter, he would say that the sooner there was an end to such a liberal Ministry the better. When the sufferings and grievances under which the poor laboured were brought before the House, the greatest impatience was manifested by hon. Members. Now, he felt it his duty to protest against such a course of proceeding. He recollected that the other day, when a petition was presented from three individuals, who had been officers in the East-India Company's service, there was a discussion that lasted for an hour and twenty minutes. When, however, the poor came before the House, the utmost impatience was manifested at their complaints, and the hon. Member who had their petition in his charge was scarcely able to obtain a hearing. It appeared to him that such conduct was anything but creditable to the character of the House. The complaints as to the administration of the Poor-law Act, were universal throughout the country. He would give some which had reached himself. He was informed, that in the union of Stowmarket, there being two old persons in the workhouse, husband and wife, of whom the husband was blind, the wife was not allowed to attend her decrepit old partner on his death bed until a special order came down for the purpose from the Poor-law Commissioners in London. Another fact was, that a woman who was neglected by the medical man employed by the union for the space of two months, sent for another practitioner to attend her. The Poor-law officer shortly afterwards called upon her, and desired to know who it was that she had employed; and on her informing him, he told her, that unless she employed the person selected by the union, her relief should be suspended. She was obliged accordingly to do so. The disease with which she was affected was one of great bodily suffering, and yet she was obliged to give up the medical attendant of her choice. Unless she had done so she would have been consigned to starvation. Practices such as these would not be long endured by the people of this country, and it would be a disgrace to the Legislature if it did not interfere for their protection.
 Mr. Wakley  having declared his determination to use every means in his power to oppose a measure so unfit to secure the object which it professed to have in view, moved as a proviso to one of the clauses, that to the back of every carriage drawn by one or two horses, and not being a hackney carriage or a metropolitan stage, a board should be affixed, with the name and residence of the proprietor painted in golden or yellow letters of an inch in length, on a purple ground. The hon. Member however did not persist in his amendment.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that facts analogous to those stated by the hon. Member for Finsbury had been brought under his notice in respect to unions in the north of England. The subject was one that the House must take up.
 Sir George Clerk  said, the Bill was one which, consistently with the rules of the House, could not be proceeded with. It would be one of the worst and most injurious of precedents, and he hoped it would not be sanctioned by the House.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that he hardly knew what course they could pursue on this subject. He was very sorry that there should be any appearance of hardship towards the petitioners. The subject had been for a long time under the consideration of the Government; but there was this difficulty in the case, that if they acceded to the memorial that had been presented by the petitioners, they would be adding considerably to the expenditure of the public money.
 Mr. Arthur  Trevor considered this to
 614
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the objects which I have in view have been pretty well explained by the papers which I have already laid before the House, which go to show the course of the communications which have taken place between the Government of England on the one hand, and those of Russia and France on the other, with regard to the further guarantee of the remainder of the loan, which, by the treaty of 1832, the three Powers undertook to secure to Greece. But perhaps I should state more specifically the grounds on which I think it the duty of the Government of Great Britain to ratify this measure. The House is aware, that after the termination of the contest between Greece and Turkey, and when the Porte consented to acknowledge the independence of Greece, the three Powers, in virtue of the authority delegated to them by the Greek nation, did proceed to exercise the right which had been vested in them, of nominating the person who should be King of Greece. The choice, it will be recollected, in the first instance, fell upon Leopold, Prince of Saxe Coburg. In the communications which were made between that Prince and the conference of the three Powers, an agreement was come to, by which the three Governments agreed to guarantee the amount of interest and sinking fund, by a loan of 60,000,000 of francs to be raised for the use of the Greeks. The House is aware of the circumstances which led Prince Leopold to refuse the offer of the throne of Greece, and of the subsequent nomination by the three Powers, about a year and a half afterwards, of the Prince Otho, of Bavaria, to be Sovereign of Greece. In the communications which passed on the occasion, he naturally asked, or rather the Government of Bavaria, on his behalf, asked, whether the same condi-
 616 617 618 619 620 
 
 1828 2,500,000 drachmas. 
 1829 4,800,000 
 1830 3,300,000 
 1831 4,900,000 
 1832 (no account) 
 1833 7,000,000 
 1834 9,400,000 
 1835 10,700,000 
 1836(as estimated) 11,300,000 621 
 
 1831 8 ships 1,000 tons. 
 1832 20 3,000 
 1833 23 3,600 
 1834 28 4,000 
 1835 31 4,500 l. l. 
 
 1831 £33,000 
 1832 38,000 
 1833 45,000 
 1834 73,000 
 1835 117,000
 Mr. Hume  inquired whether the noble Lord was aware whether the amounts of revenue which he had stated had been actually realized by Greece? The Committee ought to be informed whether those sums had been actually received, and whether the disbursements had actually taken place?
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that the sums he had stated were those actually received by the Treasury of Greece, with the exception of that for the present year, which, as he had already stated, would form an estimate of the results of former years.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that it would be satisfactory to know how the noble Lord had been furnished with those accounts.
 Viscount Palmerston,  in reply, remarked, that the accounts had been taken from accounts presented at the Conference by the Greek Minister in London. They had also been given to the British Minister in Greece, but whether they had been published there or not he did not know. Such had formerly been the practice.
 Mr. Hume  expressed a hope, that the noble Lord would lay before the House the whole of the official documents.
 Mr. Robinson  expressed his concurrence in the wish expressed by the noble Lord, that the independence of Greece should be fully established. But the real question before the Committee was, whether or not, under existing circumstances, the resolution proposed by the noble Lord was one which Parliament ought to be called upon to adopt. Those circumstances arose from the fact that Russia, one of the contracting parties to the original treaty, refused to give her concurrence to any further guarantee. He (Mr. Robinson) maintained, that with Greece in a state of anarchy, worse than that of the worse days of Turkish despotism, with its monarch refusing to return to the country unless he was secured the payment of the whole or part of the twenty millions now sought to be guaranteed, and with Russia, one of the original contracting parties, refusing to concur in that guarantee, this country was not called upon to pass this resolution. Let the House look to the state of the circumstances. When France, Russia, and England entered into the
 624 625 l. 626
 Mr. Pryme  objected to this motion, but upon grounds different from those which had been stated by the hon. Member for Worcester. At the time when Greece was engaged in her first struggles for liberty, a subscription was entered into in this country to aid them in their efforts—a subscription which was of course not adequate to her necessities, but which strongly marked the feelings of this country towards her. A loan of 800,000 l. l. de facto 627
 Lord Dudley Stuart  was understood to say, that it was useless to argue this, if the issue of the money had been already made. [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Mr. Hume  came to the same conclusion as the noble Lord (Dudley Stuart), but on wholly different grounds. He thought that the great moral power of this country
 628
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  would not enter on the question of the preference which should be given to a federative or a kingly government, but he believed, that if the Greeks had been left to their own choice, they would have chosen the former. He was aware of the grounds on which the Government of Greece had made this application, but he thought that that Government, not having fulfilled its own part of the engagement, had no just claim to call on us to fulfil ours.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think that the arguments—that Greece had not kept faith in some previous pecuniary engagements—that the other Powers, parties to the treaty, refused to make good their guarantees, or that the money might be applied to the reduction of the burdens of this country, or that it would increase Russian influence—had anything to do with the question. The proposition of his noble Friend did not go to increase the engagements we had entered into; it only went to make good those engagements, but in a different manner. He would put it to the House to consider what would be the situation of Greece, if we were thus to
 629
 Major Beauclerk : He knew from personal observation, that it would be impossible to force the Bavarian Government upon Greece. He had resided among the people of that country, and he knew that a feeling of hostility to the Bavarian rule was universal. He hoped, therefore, that this House would not sanction the appropriation of any more money for the purpose of bolstering up that rule. It would, he was persuaded, be throwing money into the ocean; not one farthing of it would ever be paid. The attempt to force a foreign government upon Greece, was nothing but a scheme of Russia to advance her own interests in that country. She acquiesced in the proposal, that Leopold should go over into that country, because she imagined that he would have been completely under the tutelage of Count Capo d'Istrias. When she found that her scheme failed in that respect, and that it was not for her interest to maintain a foreign government in Greece, she turned round upon her allies, and threw upon them the whole burthen of the stipulated aid. Now that she discovered Russian supremacy was no longer to be continued, she withdrew from the treaty, and left the other two parties to it to fulfil it as they could. Well, as it seemed to be admitted that we were not bound by treaty to guarantee the whole of this third part of the loan, the question was, was it good policy so to do? Now he (Major Beauclerk) did not think it was. He had great confidence in the present Government, and especially in the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department; but upon this occasion he was, in his (Major Beauclerk's) opinion, misled by Russia, and endeavouring to bolster up a system in Greece, which he would find it impossible to support. Let the people of Greece choose their own government; let them be defended against Russia and Turkey; but he could not give his consent to the Bill; for, in doing so, he believed he
 630
 Mr. Thomas Baring  opposed the motion, and contended, that there was no chance whatever of Greece fulfilling its engagements with this country, in the event of the proposed sum being lent to it. He thought that the real policy of this country would have been, to act in conjunction with Russia, as he did not consider that sufficient grounds existed for entertaining any jealousy of that power.
 Dr. Bowring  could not agree with the hon. Member for Yarmouth, that it was advisable that this country should adopt the same line of policy with Russia. Bavarian power was now paramount in Greece, and he maintained, that in that country there existed not the shadow of freedom, of independence, or of nationality. Greece had not yet fulfilled her contract by paying the interest on the sum of l,600,000 l. l.
 Viscount Sandon  was led to conclude, from communications made to him by a gentleman of considerable property in Greece, that the state of the country was not such as it was represented to be by the opponents of the measure, since its finances had gradually improved from the year 1828, up to the present time. In support of this view of the subject, the noble Lord proceeded to read an extract from a work written by the rev. Mr. Wordsworth, master of Harrow School, describing the improvements lately effected in the town of Athens
 631
 Mr. George F. Young  resisted the motion, on the ground that Greece had violated the stipulations into which it had entered with the three contracting Powers. With respect to the intentions of Russia, that Power did not object to pay the second instalment, but was not prepared to apply it to the same purposes as those contemplated by the noble Lord. If he consulted only his feelings as an Englishman, he should be inclined to accede to the noble Lord's proposition; but considering the matter fairly and impartially, he was bound to declare, that the arguments of the noble Lord had been completely refuted by those employed by the Russian Ambassador. The objects which ought to be aimed at in the decision to which the House would come, were the interests of the parties guaranteeing the loan, and the assistance of Greece in the financial and political difficulties with which she had at present to contend. He confessed, however, that while he could not refuse his assent to the reasoning contained in the documents to which he had referred, he was one of those who regarded with great jealousy the policy of Russia, not only towards Greece, but every other country with which that power had been brought into contact for a long series of years. When they found that 8,000,000f. of the second instalment, were not appropriated to the financial purposes of Greece, but to the payment of a sum to Turkey in return for cessions of territory made by the latter, and that, at the same time, Turkey was paying the stipulated indemnity to Russia for the expenses of the late war between them, they could not doubt that the 8,000,000 francs found their way into the Russian treasury. He deprecated the policy of separating ourselves from the interests of our allies in this matter, and could not but regard as suspicious, the eagerness with which Russia accepted the proposition made by the noble Lord.
 Mr. Goulburn  agreed with the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool. He
 632
 Viscount Palmerston : No one who ever moved a proposition, can be placed in a more singular position than I am this evening with regard to my opponents, because the one-half of them have answered the objections which have been made by the other half. My noble Friend, who spoke on the opposite Bench, objects to the proposition, because, he says, we go hand-in-hand with Russia in matters of European policy; while others object to it, because they say, we ought to go hand-in-hand with Russia and not to depart from the association. If my noble Friend thinks that my proposal renders the policy of this country subservient to that of Russia, of which he disapproves—I apprehend, having listened to the objections of those who, having read the papers, oppose the motion on the contrary ground, that I have a right to claim his vote on the ground that I am not acting in a manner consistent with the wishes of the Russian Government. Hon. Gentlemen have argued as if we were proposing to increase the liability of Great Britain; or, as the hon. Member for Middlesex has actually said, as if we were going to issue money at this country's expense; but we are not proposing, in the slightest degree, to increase
 633 634 "A considerable body of troops have passed the barrier, in order to restore order and obedience to the laws; and to prevent the measures of Government from being cramped, immediate relief must be granted. The rebels say that the Government has no money, and can only obtain it by imposing taxes on the people, which will make them the more ready to join us." 635 "I have the satisfaction to assure you that, with the exception of occasional irruptions, the whole of Otho's dominions are tranquil; there is not a country in which the people are so well fed, paid, and clothed; there is none in which a man is more sure of reaping the fruits of his capital and labour; there is scarcely a family in the kingdom which has not its weekly sales of sheep or of goats; houses are built even in the winter season; land is cultivated; and almost every individual is occupied in attending to his own affairs. There are Greeks from Moldavia, Constantia, and Asia Minor, assembled in the capital, in hopes of being employed by the Government, and those of them who do not succeed are discontented, which is the case, and must be the case, in a country like this, where the spirit of the people leads every man to put himself forward; and I am convinced, that the unfavourable accounts you hear must come from persons of that description, and not from impartial authorities who are competent to judge of the facts. Such is an impartial review of Count Armansperg's Administration; but I will not conceal from you that the expectations they have raised are likely to be disappointed, unless the third instalment of the loan is received." 636 637 638
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the Report of the Committee on the Charitable Trustees Bill.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had such strong objections to the Bill altogether, that he would move as an amendment that the Report be taken into consideration that day three months.
 Mr. Arthur  Trevor would certainly support the amendment.
 The Solicitor-General  rose to move the insertion of a clause, to the effect, that in all cases in which, at the time of the passing of this Act, the body corporate of any borough named in either of the said schedules A and B, or any one or more of the members of such body corporate, in his or their corporate capacity, stood solely or together, with any person or persons elected solely by such body corporate, or solely by any particular number, class, or description of members of such body corporate, seized or possessed of any real or personal estate for the absolute use and benefit of such body corporate, subject only, for the purpose of some charitable trust, to the payment of a fixed sum, or to a charge wholly satisfied by less than the whole of the rents and profits of such real estate, or of the interest and dividends of such personal estate, all such real and personal estate shall immediately after the passing of this Act be vested in the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the borough, subject in the first instance to the charge created for the purposes of the trust, and the amount of such charge shall be accounted for by the said mayor, aldermen, and burgesses, and paid by the treasurer of the borough to such persons as a majority of the trustees under this Act shall appoint, under their hands and seals, to receive the same, and shall be paid over to such person at such time or times as the disbursements have usually been made for the purposes of the trust, and the receipt of such person shall be a good discharge to the treasurer, and to the said mayor, aldermen, and burgesses; neither shall the said mayor, aldermen, and burgesses, nor the treasurer of the borough, be bound to see to the due application of the said charge and subject to the said charge, and to any claim which any person or body corporate may have at law or in equity, or which may be made on behalf of any trust or charitable institution, to or upon the said hereditaments or personal estate, the rents and profits, interest and dividends, of the said hereditaments and personal estate shall be carried to the credit of the borough fund.
 Mr. Goulburn  inquired whether, under the effect of this clause, property left to freemen would not go to the borough fund?
 The Attorney-General  said, that where freemen had any particular interest in the
 641
 Mr. Charlton  put some question relative to the disposal of the existing surplus in the case of some charitable foundation in Ludlow. The property which had been bequeathed for certain charitable purposes having greatly increased in value, the surplus had hitherto been applied by the corporation to the general purposes of the town. Would that state of things be allowed to continue under this clause?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the clause so very explicit that he was surprised such a question should have been put by the hon. Member for Ludlow. The clause would not perpetuate but remedy abuse. Where charity was impressed on the entire fund, the charity would be entitled to the whole; but if not, the surplus would go to the borough fund.
 Mr. Charlton  did not think his question had been either distinctly or satisfactorily answered. He wished to know—[cries of "Spoke, spoke," "Order, order."]
 The Speaker : The hon. Member has already spoken on the subject.
 Mr. Charlton : Sir, you must have misunderstood me; I merely put a question; I did not speak.
 The Speaker : It is perfectly true, as the hon. Member has just stated, that he put a question; but it is also true that he followed it up with some observation.
 Mr. Charlton : I put a question, and in order to elucidate the matter, I certainly did accompany it with an observation.
 The Earl of Lincoln  rose to order. The Attorney-General had been heard, and might be heard again, without any interruption from that (the Opposition) side of the House. Why should not the same courtesy be extended to the hon. Member for Ludlow? The general convenience required, that the strict rule of form should not be so stringently applied in such cases as the present.
 Mr. Charlton  had hoped that the object of hon. Gentlemen opposite was to make this Bill as perfect as possible; but he certainly did not think that was the wish of his Majesty's Government. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), in his extreme cleverness, thought no one could compete with him, and therefore he attempted, instead of ex-
 642 Laughter.
 Mr. Gordon : I did not laugh at you.
 Mr. Charlton : You have no right to laugh at me. ["Order," and Chair."]
 The Speaker : I hope the hon. Member will see the propriety of not abusing the indulgence of the House beyond what the necessity of the case requires.
 Mr. Charlton : Sir, I maintain I have a right to speak. ["Order, order;" Chair, chair."]
 The Speaker : The House, I am sure, will agree with me, that the hon. Member, in strictness, has no right to speak more than once. If he is allowed to do so, it is by the courtesy of the House, and under the special circumstances of the case. The hon. Member has already spoken once.
 Mr. Charlton : Sir, I say I only asked a question, and you decided I had a right to speak.
 The Speaker : Whether I was right or wrong in my decision, the hon. Member himself furnished me with an answer, for he said, having put a question, he proceeded to elucidate it by some observation.
 Mr. Charlton : I rise to order. I have just heard the hon. Member for Cheshire observe—"It is really disgraceful." He dare not use that expression elsewhere, I will make him remember it. ["Chair, chair."]
 Mr. Goring : The hon. Member for Cheshire did not make use of that expression. I will answer for that. Under all the circumstances of the case, I hope the hon. Member for Ludlow will see the propriety of at once withdrawing from the House.
 Mr. Charlton : My duty to my constituents will not allow me to withdraw. If the hon. Member for Cheshire did not make use of the term "disgraceful," I beg leave to recall what I said.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  persisted in his motion for the adjournment of the house.
 The Speaker : The hon. Gentleman has used expressions in the heat of debate which he ought not to have used; I am quite sure he will be ready, at once, to withdraw them.
 Mr. Charlton : Sir, I have already done so, and in the most handsome manner. I never make any observation, much less a charge against an hon. Member, which, if wrong, I am not ready to retract; but if in the right, not ten or twenty shall intimidate me. The hon. Member then adverted to the Ludlow charity, where, under a charter of Edward 4th, property amounting to between 100 l. l. l., l.,
 The Attorney-General  said, if under the charter of Edward 6th the whole property was devoted to the almshouses, the school, and the clergyman, they would under this clause continue to receive the benefit of it, and if the corporation of Ludlow had improperly applied any part of it for the improvements of the town, the present town-council would have no such power. But if only specific sums were to be paid to each of those charitable objects, the surplus belonging to the corporation, it would now be applicable to municipal purposes.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the Clause, on the ground that it implied distrust of the new Corporations on account of their religious faith. Under the law, since the Repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts, Dissenters being members of corporations might be trustees for these charities, and he saw no reason for now-making an alteration in it. The members of the new Corporations were at least as worthy of trust as the members of the old Corporations.
 Mr. Leader  said, he should support the clause. He was aware it was argued that the school having been anterior to the Corporation, it was not proper that it should be placed under the supervision of the Corporation. But, in his opinion, that made no difference whatever in the question:—and that, if the House thought fit, it had just as much right to place the school under the charitable trustees, to be appointed under this Bill, as if the Corporation had the priority of existence. He believe, it would be advantageous so to do, and therefore he should, as he had said, vote with the Solicitor-General.
 Mr. V. Smith : The question was not so much as to the state of the school, though in the Report of the Municipal Corporation Commissioners, great complaints were stated to have been made by the inhabitants of Louth upon that subject. The question was, is it proper that the management of this School should be transferred to the charitable trustees to be appointed under this Bill. Now, he (Mr. V. Smith) believed the great majority of the inhabitants of Louth to be desirous of that transfer. A petition had been sent up to that House, signed by a large proportion of them in favour of it. No arguments had been urged against this clause, which, in his opinion, were of any weight, and indeed he might state, that in the other House the clause exempting this school from the operation of the Corporation Bill was moved by Lord Rosslyn, without any reasons being given for it, and agreed to without any discussion as to its propriety. Under these circumstances he hoped the House would support his hon. and Learned Friend.
 Mr. Goulburn  quite agreed that the state of the school had nothing to do with this question, which was, whether an enactment having been introduced into the Corporation Act last Session, exempting this school from the operation of that Act, any valid reason had been given why that enactment should be repealed by a clause in this Charitable Trusts Bill? The facts of the case were these:—a petition was presented last Session to the other House of Parliament (during the progress of the Municipal Corporation Bill) on behalf of this school of Louth, representing that the School Corporation was created by Royal Charter, in the reign of Edward 6th;
 647
 Lord John Russell : With reference to the last observation of the right hon. Gentleman, that when the Corporation Bill came down from the Lords, no objection was made to the introduction of the clause exempting Louth school from the operation of the Bill, I am certainly responsible for that. A deputation from Louth waited upon me, to whom I stated, that in my opinion it was not wise to insist upon that particular point at that time, as it was highly important that the Bill should pass that Session, and I believe that was the sole reason why this point was not then pressed. The right hon. Gentleman has stated the facts of this case as they are given in the Report; and it appears that the Charter of Edward 6th established a Corporation, consisting of a warden and six assistants; the original intention being that this body should have the management of the school at Louth; but in the reign of James 1st, the Corporation was enlarged, and invested with all the rights annexed to a Municipal Corporation. Now, really I cannot see that it makes any difference in this question, whether we have first a Municipal Corporation, to whom is afterwards intrusted the management of the school; or first, a Corporation for the management of the school, enlarged subsequently into a Municipal Corporation. We are to look at them as they exist in the reign of William 4th; we find them both now forming one body—we find the warden and six assistants, along with the management of the school, exercising the functions of a Municipal Corporation; and that being the case, it seems to me
 648
 Lord J. Russell  said, in reply to a question, that it was his intention to that the Poor Laws Amendment Bill be postponed for the present. The noble Lord moved the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Bill.
 Lord John Russell : In my opinion, the practice that has been adopted by you, Sir, has superseded a very inconvenient practice in the proceedings of the House. The greatest inconvenience formerly arose from the practice of hon. Members not contenting themselves with stating the substance and prayer of a petition, but entering into long discussions on general subjects with which perhaps, they had little connexion. I am sure that the House is unanimous in its feeling as to the propriety and necessity of putting an end to such a practice, and I am equally are that we all feel indebted to the Speaker for the course he has adopted. If some such rule be not enforced, one or two petitions may take up a whole evening, and we shall then be obliged to come back to the practice of allowing the presentation of petitions until nine or ten o'clock at night. Is it not obvious that such a practice would lead to the interruption of all real business, and that in fact it would prevent, instead of facilitate, the presentation of petitions? There are cases where discussions on petitions are necessary, but they should be introduced by a motion on some order of the day.
 Lord John Russell  said, his mind was most decidedly made up on the subject, and the opinion which he entertained was, that it was not expedient to refer the whole question of the Poor-laws to a Select Committee, with a view to their considering whether the Poor-law Amendment Act should be continued or not, as any such proceeding would be to create a doubt in the public mind of the value of that measure. But at the same time he would likewise say, that if there were any part of the law which was supposed, or should be found really to act with unnecessary severity, and to inflict hardships upon the poor, especially with reference to separating the nearest relatives, and keeping them apart from each other, he should have no objection to the appointment of a Select Committee to remedy such defects.
 Major Beauclerk  hoped before the question was disposed of, that he might say that the whole subject of the Poor-laws ought to be brought before a Committee of that House, and in that case he should have no
 612
 Major Beauclerk  said, he wished most distinctly to deny the inferences which a morning paper had drawn from his speech of the previous night. He had not the slightest intention of casting any blame upon the Speaker.
 Sir Andrew L. Hay  presented the Report of the Committee on the Trinity (North Leith) Harbour and Dock Bill. He said he wished to state broadly the circumstances under which the Committee reported that an "informality had occurred of such importance as to induce them to recommend the Bill to be withdrawn, otherwise it might become an improper precedent on future occasions. The manuscript copy of the Bill introduced into the House was different in some respects from the print which was afterwards circulated and which was referred to the Committee. Words had been then introduced in a way that the Committee considered informal; they would not permit the Bill in that shape to proceed, and therefore they agreed to report to the House that the Bill should be withdrawn, and another Bill introduced." He moved that a Bill be introduced to construct a Harbour and Dock in Leith.
 The Speaker : I hope the House will allow me to state, on the present occasion, the course which I felt it my duty to pursue, and with regard to the propriety of which I am most desirous to have the opinion of the House. When I had the honour of being placed in the Chair, I found it a general complaint that much of the time of the House was occupied in the presentation of petitions; and I also found that
 610 611
 The Speaker  observed, that by a resolution of the House the public business was to be proceeded with at half-past four o'clock.
 Mr. Poulter  supported the motion for the Bill. The ground upon which the Committee had sanctioned the application for a new Bill was totally different from that stated by the Attorney-General, and he hoped the House would allow the parties to remedy that defect.
 Mr. Wilks  presented a petition from assessed tax collectors of the metropolis and its vicinity, praying for compensation, in consequence of the great reduction in the assessed taxes that had taxen place since the 8th George 3rd. The collectors of assessed taxes received 3 d. l. l. l. l. 609
 Mr. T. Attwood  had some petitions to present, and hoped the House would allow him to present them.
 Mr. Attwood  was not aware of any such arrangement.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  thought, that the strict enforcement of such a rule would interfere with the presentation of the people's petitions, and that they would virtually be rejected.
 Mr. Ewart  brought up the Report of the Select Committee, to whom had been referred the drawing up the reasons for dissenting to the Lords' amendments, by which the last word was not given to the prisoner's counsel.
 Mr. Ewart  said, if they adopted the amendment of the Lords, the prosecutor's counsel would have two speeches to one on the part of the prisoner. They offered a compromise to the House of Lords—they had raised several objections; let them go to a conference with the Lords, and let that House bear the onus of rejecting the proposed amendment upon their amendment.
 Sir James Graham  said, the Committee could not have proceeded with the second Bill without doing great injustice to the merits of the case. He hoped the hon. and gallant Member would postpone his motion till next Session.
 The Attorney-General  begged to state that he regretted exceedingly there should exist any difference of opinion on this important measure. He most sincerely deprecated this Bill being lost by any collision with the House of Lords. The question at issue was, whether the prisoner should have the last word. Now why should they endanger the Bill? In ninety-nine cases out of 100 the prisoner would still continue to have the last word if the Bill were altered in the way proposed by the Lords; because, except the witnesses to character, there was scarcely ever a witness called for the prisoner; but, though it was not the law of the land, still a discretion was vested in the Judge. The Judge had the power of saying whether the prisoner should have the last word, therefore this was a matter of practice only. At present no prisoner could have a counsel in cases of misdemeanour or felony to open his case for him. But what would be the consequences of throwing out this Bill (for such must be the result of a difference with the House of Lords)? Why that for one year at least, all prisoners would be deprived of the great advantage of having a counsel; an advantage which this Bill secured to them. If a man accused of felony were imbecile, or dumb, under the existing law, he would not have a counsel. Therefore the House would do well to be more considerate, and to reflect how much they would gain by the adoption of the Bill in its present shape; and how much they would risk by dissenting from the amendment of the Lords. He entreated the House to acquiesce in the amendments of the Lords, though he did not approve of them.
 The Attorney-General  submitted whether the House would for a third time allow a Bill to be introduced. It was from very great indulgence that a second Bill had been allowed to be introduced in the same Session, especially when the informality had arisen from the gross negligence of the promoters of the Bill. He did not wish to charge anything beyond gross negligence. There was an unanimous vote that the Committee could not proceed with the Bill, and his hon. and gallant Friend was allowed to try his hand a third time. He trusted, however, the House would not, by permitting the introduction of this Bill, sanction such
 608
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, he perfectly agreed to the Report which had just been presented by the hon. Member for Liverpool, which advocated the principle that the prisoner should always have the last word; but he would beg leave to submit to the House, whether or not the Lords' amendment after all, practically, would not have the same effect. The practice of the bar was (and there were those in the House who could contradict him if he were in error) never to make a speech in reply in the case of prosecutions. In ninety-five cases out of 100 the prisoner had the last word, and, with respect to the other five, it was competent to the Judge to allow counsel for the prisoner to reply. It did appear to him, that in ninety-five
 613
 Sir George Clerk  assured the House that he was taken completely by surprise on the
 666
 Sir George Strickland , as one of the Members of the Standing Orders Committee, was disposed to support this Bill on its own intrinsic merits, and particularly so when he was informed that it was in danger of being rejected on account of the determined opposition to it. But when he reflected that this was the third time of its being before the House, and that it was owing to the blunders of the parties, and, moreover, when he looked to the late period of the Session, he confessed he should hesitate before giving his assent to the motion. With these feelings he could not consistently support the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Vivian  bore testimony to the fact that the Bill had no party or political purpose; the principle of it had been discussed and agreed to at several county meetings.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he should endeavour to comprehend the two questions which arose out of this Bill in the observations which he meant to make, namely, to defend the proposed alteration which placed the administration of the Post-office in the hands of Commissioners; and next, to state the reasons why he conceived one member of the commission should also be a Member of the House of Commons. Now, as to the first branch of the subject, which referred to the administration of the Post-office, he relied on authority for a justification of the change which was proposed; because, whoever read the Report of the Post-office Commissioners would see, that whenever the department of the Post-office was brought under the consideration of a tribunal appointed to inquire how it might hereafter be managed, the result (no matter what was the constitution of that tribunal, whether Whig or Tory) which had been arrived at on all occasions was, that the present system of administering the Post-office was objectionable and indefensible. Hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to consider, that the present measure was a discovery first made in the year 1836, and that the object of it was to add to the political influence of the present Administration, But it was a well-known fact, that whoever were appointed to consider this subject, however they differed on other questions, and however remote the period at which the inquiry was instituted, came all of them to the conclusion, that a change was required in this department. But the case did not stand simply on authority; it was supported also by common sense and
 680
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the motion.
 681
 Mr. Labouchere  was surprised to hear it insinuated, that the House was taken by surprise upon this occasion, when it was perfectly well known, by the Report on their table, that the Committee to which this subject had been referred, had reported, after mature and cautious consideration, that it was expedient for the interests of the Post-office, and still more so for the interests of the public, that some person at the head of a governing board like this, should be in the House of Commons. It should also be recollected, it was now become more necessary than ever it had been previously, that the duties of this department of the Government should be performed efficiently, and under a stricter system of responsibility, in consequence of the pending improvement in the several branches of this important department, and the great beneficial changes which were either actually made, or in contemplation, with respect to our foreign correspondence, and our future mode of intercourse with the other nations of the globe.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, even if it were necessary to have a Board, still it was not desirable to have one of the members of it in that House. He never understood that Lord Wallace recommended that any member of the commission should be a Member of that House. If there were changes in the office of Postmaster-General, it was the result of the changes of Government. If the Government changed, so did the Postmaster-General. But though a change in name was proposed by the Bill, yet the control was given to the chief Commissioner. Where, then, would be the advantage? It might not be fashionable to revert to the old practice of the Constitution; yet he would do so, and say that the spirit of the Constitution excluded all officers who had the management of money from that House. If this precedent were established, they would have all the chief officers of the revenue departments in that House. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by entering his protest against the introduction of a Commissioner of the Post-
 682
 Lord Lowther  supported the Bill, and denied that admitting public Commissioners to be Members of Parliament was contrary to law, or without precedent, even of recent date.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, as to the objection urged by the right, hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) to the sitting of one of the Post-office Commissioners in that House; if his (Mr. Baring's) memory served him, there were, in not very remote times, four postmasters, two for England, and two for Ireland—every one of whom might have sat in that House. The objection urged by the right hon. Gentleman might have held good some hundred years ago. But now, considering the great changes in the Government—considering also the much greater check and control which now existed over the Representatives of the people in that House, in his (Mr. Baring's) opinion, there was not to be apprehended such great danger from the placing an additional revenue officer in the House of Commons, as the right hon. Gentleman seemed to anticipate. The right hon. Gentleman had argued upon this question,—whether or not, the business of the Post-office would be better conducted on the plan recommended by the Government, one of the Commissioners having a seat in that House, than by a permanent board. That question he (Mr. B.) admitted might fairly be open to considerable doubt. But certainly he had reached this conclusion—that though undoubtedly, as the right hon. Gentleman had pointed out, there might be some advantages attached to the permanent board; those advantages were counterbalanced by equal or superior disadvantages. On the one hand, he allowed there might be expected in the members of
 683
 Mr. George F. Young  said, he agreed with the noble Lord (Lowther) that the plan of the Government was generally likely to work an advantageous alteration in the administration of one of the most important public offices, by establishing a board for its future management more permanent in its character than the present office of Post-master General, and in his opinion calculated to prove more efficient in its operation: with reference however, to the chief Commissioner having a seat in that House, he confessed he entertained great doubts as to the expediency of that part of the proposed plan. It did appear to him that some danger was to be apprehended of incurring, by such a measure those very evils which it was the main object of this Bill to get rid of. He (Mr. Young) could not help fearing that the chief Commissioner being thus to a certain degree necessarily rendered a political character, being liable to the loss of his seat, and the consequent vacation of his office almost upon every change of Government, and being consequently much less acquainted with the business and internal arrangements of the Office, would inevitably become, in all matters relating to the practical administration of the Post-office entirely subordinate to the two assistant Commissioners; thus those advantages which were anticipated from this
 684
 Mr. Wallace  only rose to say, that although he had before expressed very strongly his dissent from that part of the Bill which related to the Chief Commissioner having a seat in that House, he had received so many communications, and heard so many opinions, from persons more competent than he was to judge of the matter, all in favour of that arrangement, that he would not press that objection further, but if it went to a division he would certainly vote for the Government plan.
 Viscount Sandon  said, he did not consider the objections which had been urged to that part of the Bill which allowed the chief Commissioner to be a Member of that House had been met by any speaker. He could not help thinking that all the evils complained of, in regard to the present constitution of the office of Postmaster General would equally attach to that of the chief Commissioner, as established by this Bill. It had not in his opinion been shown, that by giving the chief Commissioner a seat in this House there would be more control exercised by this House over the general arrangements of the Post-office than there was at present. There was already an officer in that House, not he believed overwhelmed with business, the very nature of whose office closely connected as it was with the trade and commerce of the country, pointed him out as not an unfit person to answer questions relating to the Post-office, if responsibility to that House was essential to the just managemement of that department. He alluded, the House would readily imagine, to the right honorable Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade: he thought also that the plan recommended by the Government would render the office of chief Commissioner a kind of stepping stone for young men desirous of advancement in the public service who would remain in it only so long as they were enabled to gain higher distinction, and who would, therefore, be quite unfit to discharge the duties attached to so important a situation. On the whole he should feel it his duty to oppose this clause.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  observed, in reply to one of the remarks of the noble Lord,
 685
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, I must divide against this clause.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  rose to state, that he should oppose the motion which had just been made. It appeared to him to be quite clear, that this Bill would prove a serious injury to those who desired to exercise the elective franchise. The principle of limiting the polling to one day might answer very well in cities, but in the case of counties it could not fail to be an injury. He was perfectly persuaded that if so short a time as one day only were allowed for polling, it would be utterly impossible, when an election might occur in the winter season, for those who resided a long distance from the polling places—suppose the case of a man being entitled to vote for each division of a county, and for a contiguous county—it would be impossible, under this Bill, for such party to exercise his right of voting in each place. An hon. Baronet, on a former occasion, had observed that a man might have a freehold in every county, and that no Bill ever could intend he
 670 671
 Mr. Grove Price  felt satisfied, that the effect of the alteration in the law, would be to give to unprincipled men the opportunity of creating tumult and confusion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that the object of the framers of the Bill was to diminish the expense of elections, by lessening their duration. The principle was the same, whether in towns or counties, and the multiplication of polling places would effect the object without inconvenience to any party.
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to the principle of the Bill, feeling convinced that it was destructive to the rights, and was a direct blow aimed at property. He thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer might have spoken on this matter in the manly way he sometimes spoke of other subjects, and plainly told them that it was a Bill intended to prop up a sinking cause. He looked for protection in another place for property, which protection he could not procure within the walls of that House. He thought the Bill most unjustifiable.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that if the, Bill had not been introduced, there were difficulties already which would impede the voting of persons of property. He knew a gentleman, a friend of his, who by right of property, had a vote in twenty-six counties. It was impossible that he could avail himself of all these opportunities.
 Sir Charles Knightley  said, he had taken the trouble to look over the list of the division on this Bill on a former occasion, and he found upon dissecting them, that amongst the ayes, who formed the majority, there were only eighteen county Members. Now, in spite of all the tricks which might be played by the Friends of those on the opposite side—in spite of the practice of throwing brickbats at voters at elections, as in the case of the Warwick election, and though the cloven foot had stuck out in the counties, he only wished for an opportunity to try the practical working of this Bill.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, when the hon. Gentleman talked of brickbats having been used at the election in Warwickshire
 672 Hear, hear.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  happened to have been in Warwick some little time since, and he could take upon himself to say, that from the evidence which he had read, and all that he had been told, he should say that there was not one single word of truth in the report which had been raised, to which the hon. Gentleman alluded.
 Mr. Mark Philips  explained. He begged to assure the House again, that if he had stated that which was not correct he retracted it; but he felt called upon to state, that the clergyman to whom he had alluded, was reported at the time he was down at the election to which he referred to have taken a singularly conspicuous part. That statement remained uncontradicted whilst he was in that part of the country, and he certainly left it under the impression that it was correct. He was glad, however, to hear the refutation given by the hon. Baronet.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  had not exactly spoken from his own personal knowledge, but he had read the papers, and the conclusion which he had come to was, that the charge was utterly groundless.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  begged to say, upon his own personal knowledge, that he could give the statement which had been made a flat contradiction.
 Mr. Palmer  (Essex) : the right hon.
 673
 Colonel Gore Langton  thought the Bill would disfranchise many freeholders, and he would oppose it.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  would vote against the third reading, because he was convinced that the Bill would increase, instead of diminishing, the expens of elections.
 Mr. Hume  was convinced, that the saving of time would also be a saving of expense. To take all elections in one day would lessen the means and opportunity of obtaining votes corruptly.
 Mr. Baines  adverted to the elections for Yorkshire, one of which, lasting for fifteen days, had cost 250,000 l., l.
 The Marquess of Chandos , as a county Member, must say, that his strong conviction was, that this Bill would increase the expense of all county elections.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  contended, that the Bill would be of the greatest possible advantage in agricultural districts, by affording an additional number of polling places, where the freeholders might vote without going to a distance: he illustrated this point by reference to Northamptonshire, where, in default of large towns, polling places would be established in small ones. He did not think that the hon. Baronet (Sir C. Knightley) was at all warranted in what he had said about brickbats and bludgeons, when it was a fact that one of the leaders of a party in favour of the hon. Baronet had carried a double barrelled pistol.
 Mr. Praed  thought, that the increased expense would be occasioned, not so much by the number of polling places, as by the fact that the election would be limited to one day.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  was of opinion that, the increase of the number of polling places would lessen the expense of elections.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that it appeared to him that electors exercised the privilege of the elective franchise in such a manner
 674
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that the hon. Member for Southwark was the only one of those who intended voting for this proposition who would take that course consistently, for the hon. Member plainly avowed that the elective franchise being a duty, and not a pastime, the performance of it ought to be attended with some inconvenience to the elector.
 Mr. Forster  then proposed the following clause:—"And whereas it is expedient, that in the elections of knights to serve for any counties, ridings, parts or divisions of counties, which may be contiguous, the polls shall not take place on the same day; be it therefore enacted, that it shall be lawful at any general election for the Lord High Chancellor or Lord Keeper of the Great Seal, for the time being, to ascertain and define the several days on which elections in contiguous counties, ridings, parts or divisions of counties, may be conveniently held, and at the time of making out the writs to direct letters to be sent to the sheriffs or returning officers for the respective counties, ridings, parts or divisions of counties, requiring them to fix the days of polling as he shall appoint, in order that no poll be taken for any county, riding, part or division of a county, on the same day, with any contiguous county, riding, part or division of a county: and the said sheriffs or returning officers are hereby required to fix the days of polling accordingly, any law or statute to the contrary notwithstanding."
 Lord J. Russell  thought the discretion was properly placed in the high sheriffs. If it were placed in the Lord Chancellor, as proposed, he could not help believing that imputations would frequently be cast upon that functionary of fixing a particular day to answer political purposes. He must therefore oppose the clause.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  seconded the amendment, from the conviction that it was only introduced to assist party purposes, and would inevitably tend to injure the interest of the Established Church.
 Mr. Hardy  concurred in the amendment. He did not think there was any one sect in the country which would bear being treated as the Established Church had been treated in the instance of this Bill. He hoped the Bill would not pass in its present state.
 Mr. Anderson Pelham  was convinced
 677
 Mr. Scarlett  contended that the Bill would not carry into effect its avowed intentions, but that it would put the whole of the charities into the hands of ministerial partisans, who would apply them to political purposes.
 Sir R. Inglis  certainly thought, that the interests of the Church would be compromised by the Bill.
 Colonel Sibthorp  felt, that he should not do his duty to the Established Church if he did not press his amendment to a division.
 Sir J. Y. Buller  declared himself opposed to many of the details of the measure.
 Lord Granville Somerset , having before expressed a strong opinion against the appointment of the revising barrister by the Secretary of State, felt bound now to express his concurrence in the mode of appointment proposed by the noble Lord. He still thought, however, that the number of barristers named by the noble Lord would be quite inadequate to the discharge of the very heavy duties which would be imposed on them. He felt quite sure that if the noble Lord would look at the mass of business which had been done by the revising barristers on former occasions he would see the necessity of enlarg-
 679
  Lord John Russell  said, that he had intended to move the further consideration of the report on this Bill to-night, in order to introduce some amendments, which he was about to propose to the House; but not being so entirely prepared to do so as he could have wished, he thought it better at once to postpone the further proceeding
 678
 Sir Andrew Leith Hay , after the high opinion that had been so clearly expressed, would not trouble the House further, but withdraw the Bill altogether.
 Sir A. L. Hay  was fully impressed with the importance of the opinion of the right hon. the Speaker, and hoped he would be induced to favour the House with it.
 Sir A. L. Hay  brought in a Bill for making a Harbour and Docks at Trinity, which was read a first time. On the motion that it be read a second time on Monday,
 The Speaker : Whatever reluctance I may have felt, placed in the peculiar circumstances that I am under, to give an opinion with regard to this Bill, I can have no hesitation on the point, after the appeal that has been made to me. It is undoubtedly true, that this Bill appears to affect the interests of those I represent; but what I am about to say on the particular point now raised will be applicable to the general practice of the House, and will have no relation whatever to the merits of the Bill at present under consideration. This is a case where a party has already obtained the permission of the House to introduce a Bill a second time on account of an error that had been committed, and for the purpose of avoiding unnecessary expense. There is no doubt that such indulgence has been granted by the House in other cases. Indeed I could refer to a case that occurred no longer ago than last Session, in which the parties were allowed to repair an error arising from no fault of theirs, in order to avoid the expense of introducing a new Bill. When, however, the House is asked to give leave to introduce a new Bill, it is a fit and proper question for the House to consider whether the difficulty that has arisen, is not the act of the party making the application, and might have been avoided if due care and diligence had been used? It is of great importance to the House that those gentlemen who practise before it should be brought to use proper care and diligence; and it is the more necessary to enforce such care and diligence on their parts, since, in consequence of the recommendation of a Committee, the House now possesses but a slender hold upon them. Seeing that the pressure of private business is now every Session in-
 668
 Mr. Praed  opposed the Clause,
 Mr. W. Praed  said, that, although he might not entirely agree in the plan of the noble Lord, yet, as the point had been conceded, he did not wish to offer any unnecessary opposition. He hoped that the appointments to the ten revising-barristerships would be as satisfactory as that which had been mentioned for the chief. Further consideration of the Report postponed.
 The Lord Advocate  rose to oppose it. He said that every one must admire the zeal with which his hon. and gallant Friend persevered in bringing forward this Bill a third time, but he doubted much whether the House would consent to pass the measure, which had been kept so long before them in consequence of the blunders of the promoters of it. There was no precedent for granting such an indulgence as the suspending of the standing orders for a private Bill of this description, and he hoped the matter would be finally disposed of by rejecting the motion.
 Mr. Wilks  considered, that it would be extremely hard to reject this Bill, the second reading of which was carried by a majority of 64 to 19, on a mere clerical error. The only objection was, that the copy of the printed form of the Bill did not correspond in some few immaterial particulars with the House copy, when it was well known that the latter had become a perfect nullity. If the standing orders were to be now enforced, it would be pronouncing a condemnation on the Bill, and he would impress on his hon. Friend the justice and necessity of persevering in his motion.
  Mr. Fowell Buxton , seeing the right hon. the President of the Board of Control in his place, would take that opportunity of asking what steps had been taken in respect of that important provision in the East-India Company's Charter relative to the abolition of slavery in India?
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  hoped, that he misunderstood the right hon. Gentleman when he said that the Government either here or in India, did not feel themselves pledged to abolish slavery. It was understood in the House, that means would be taken to abolish slavery in India, and if that were an erroneous impression, the effect would be to raise a strong feeling throughout this country.
 Sir James Graham  said, there was no necessity for urging the hon. and gallant Member to persevere, for he had already shown great intrepidity in bringing in a third Bill on the day the second was re-
 667
 Sir John Hobhouse  would read the clause of the Act by which the Charter was groaned. The effect was, that the local authorities be required to take into consideration the means of mitigating the state of the slaves, and of extinguishing slavery throughout the whole of the Indian territories, so soon as such extinction should be safe and practicable, and that from time to time they should prepare and transmit to the Court of Directors the laws or regulations for this purpose, and in preparing such plans, due regard should be had to the laws of marriage and to the rights and authority of fathers and heads of families. He would, as he stated before, draw the attention of the Court of Directors to the fact that no law, regulation, or plan, had been sent home, to enable them to carry their intention in this respect into effect.
 Sir John Hobhouse  assured his hon. Friend, that the Government were fully impressed with the importance of the subject involved in the question of his hon. Friend, and grounded on the Charter of 1833; but he could only then inform him that the subject was left entirely in the hands of the local authorities in India, who were on the spot, and could apply the operation of the clause in the Act with better effect than those at a distance. They would take the matter into consideration, and submit to the home authorities certain regulations for the manumission of slaves. Until such a plan was sent home they could not take the subject into consideration. The House was aware that the local authorities had taken means to prevent the introduction or the exportation of slaves, and they had entered into several treaties for that purpose; but he was sorry to say, that at Goa, and other Portuguese settlements, the slave trade was still carried on to an extent which he regretted very much. He would take an opportunity of drawing the attention of the Court of Directors to the fact, that no plan had been yet sent home, but as soon as it was, his hon. Friend might rest assured that every attention should be paid to the important subject.
 The Solicitor-General  stated the objects of the Bill, one of the principles of which was, to make the vice-warden an effective judge both in the equity and common law courts of Cornwall. The expense would not be great, and the mode of defraying it was satisfactorily arranged by the provisions of the measure.
 Mr. Wallace  presented a Petition from the Merchants and Traders of Greenock, complaining of the great difference in the amount of duty that was levied on Spanish Vessels, returning with fish from Newfoundland, and British Vessels, stating unless some alteration was made in the existing reciprocity laws with Spain, the trade of this country would be very much injured. The difference of the duty upon fish landed in Spain from Spanish vessels was 9 l. s. 701
 Mr. Walter  could assure the House that the necessity which had been laid upon him of making the motion of which he had given notice, gave him as much surprise at first as it had subsequently imposed upon him great anxiety and trouble. Had the petitions, with which he had had the honour to be intrusted last week, been received in a manner in which he thought all petitions which had the rights of humanity and the relief of our fellow-creatures from unnecessary sufferings as their subject matter, ought to be received by that House he should have left them to work their effect upon the public mind, knowing that the subject would be taken up early in the next Session by the hon. Member for East Surrey, whose opinion might have more weight in that House than his own. The hostile manner, however, in which they were received, kindling, as it naturally would in generous dispositions, a resolution to see fair play, he thought he should be deserting those Gentlemen who were kind enough to lend him their assistance on that occasion, and called on him to persevere in bringing the subject under the consideration of the House, if he did not yield obedience to their recommendations. He should not, however, under these circumstances, abuse the indulgence of the House; but whatever might be his own impression, with respect to the new Poor-law generally, he should confine himself to the grievances complained of by the humane gentry, clergy, and other rate-payers of Petworth and its vicinity, as well as by gentlemen in his own county. He had been interrupted when he was saying on the last occasion, that the gentlemen who were chiefly instrumental in promoting the Sussex petition had no original objection to some change in the administration of the old law and of course no bigotted aversion to any fresh enactment which circumstances might require; but they did object to some of the new provisions, and especially to that which laid down the rigorous rule of refusing relief in all cases except in the union work-houses as being in their judgment cruel and
 703 s. s. s. s. 704 s. s. s. d. 705 706 * * † Ibid. p. 337. ‡ Ibid. vol. xxiv, p. 316 § Ibid, vol. xxiv. p. 346. 707 * l. l. l. l. * 708 709 s. d. s. s. d. 710 "In making out a dietary table for the work-houses of the Newbury union the guardians had allotted to each inmate of the house one pint of small beer a day (half a pint at dinner, and the other half pint at supper time). On sending up the table to the Commissioners in London they struck out this pitiful allowance, and refused to pass the table without also some of the allowance of meat was struck out. The cost of the beer was of the immense value of one halfpenny a pint, and this small quantity is, in my opinion, as well as that of the majority of the guardians, absolutely necessary, because the water near the work-house is considered as unwholesome." "Mr. Cox, the clergyman of the parish, was called upon to attend the funeral of a pauper at half-past five, at which no pall was permitted to cover the coffin, and no bell to toll; the consequence was, that many of the people of the parish, chiefly women, opposed themselves, and would not allow the corpse to be brought into the churchyard. A scene of indescribable uproar ensued. The disturbance from half-past five till nine continued, and was increased, by a numerous addition of people. At an early stage of the proceedings the bearers and friends of the deceased had taken their departure, leaving the corpse on the road before the churchyard gate. All that Mr. Cox could say was perfectly fruitless, and the interference of two other clergymen who (hearing of the riot and possessing some influence in the parish) came to assist the endeavours of Mr. Cox, but all was totally unavailing; the overseer could not be prevailed upon by the people themselves to stir from the letter of his instructions received through Mr. Chadwick, and Mr. Cox would not take upon himself to oppose the order of the board. At length he went to the house of the deceased, and proposed to the widow that she should take the expenses of the funeral upon herself, prevailing with her to trust to the assistance of her friends. To this she at length consented; and the matter being thus arranged, the funeral was got over about half-past nine, with bell and pall, more quietly than was expected. The people, however, carried back the corpse to the house, and walked a second time to the church in procession. It is anxiously hoped these instructions to the overseers may be withdrawn; if persevered in, similar outrages may be expected, and may not easily be suppressed, I need not observe that this tumult arose from religious feelings, the poor
 711 "That the House early in the next session, would institute an inquiry into the operation of the act of 5th William 4th., entitled 'An Act for the Amendment of the Laws relating to the Poor in England and Wales;' and particularly with regard to out-door relief, the separation of husbands from their wives, and of parents from their children, in the union work Houses."
 Mr. Cripps  most deeply regretted that the hon. Member for Berkshire should have made the detail which he had just concluded to the House. He denied the accuracy of the statement that the Bill of which he complained was daily getting more unpopular; on the contrary, he (Mr. Cripps) would presume to state, that both in his own neighbourhood and in other districts with which he was acquainted, the measure had acquired an immense popularity. He had ever considered the Bill as one of great public advantage, and when it was first submitted to Parliament he had thought, and so he thought still, that the country was under the greatest obligation to the noble Lord who had brought forward so strong a measure; but while he thanked that noble Lord and the Government to which he belonged for this Bill, he had never conceived it would be a perfect and unalterable measure. The subject was a most difficult one for legislation, and it was only by bringing the measure into operation, that its defects could be discovered, or the objections to it removed. He would, however, say that a Bill of greater importance had never been passed by Parliament. The hon. Member for Berkshire had laid great stress upon two or three clauses of the Bill, which in his view were objectionable, and on that ground the hon. Member went almost the length of desiring the annihilation, if possible, of the Bill. It was true the hon. Member had not said that he wished to put an end to the measure, but it was plain, from the hon. Member's observations, that he would overset the whole provisions of the Bill, and he regretted that so many hon. Members entertained similar opinions. The hon. Member for Berkshire had referred to the clause providing against the granting parochial relief to able-bodied workmen. He believed that instructions had been issued
 712
 Lord John Russell  was very glad the House had heard from the hon. Member who had just sat down the result of his experience on the subject; for he was sure that the testimony of a Gentleman who had regarded the operation of the Bill without prejudice would have its due weight with the House. He did not participate, however, in the apprehensions the hon. Member had expressed —viz., that anything which had fallen from the hon. Member for Berkshire would either have a dangerous or mischievous effect, or would render the Bill unpopular in the country. There had been a time, however, when the reform of the Poor Laws was regarded as a very strong measure, and when it required great boldness on the part of his noble Friend the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Lord Althorp) to mention such a measure in the House, and to carry it into a law. At that time there existed great vested interests, if he might so call them, in favour of the abuses of the old poor laws. In the first place, there were able-bodied paupers, who liked subsistence without work, better than the wholesome wages of labour. There was also a numerous class of shopkeepers, who found their best market in the parish funds, and who for very inferior articles obtained an exorbitant price. In the next place there was a portion—a small portion, he must say—of the magistracy, who endeavoured to obtain for themselves a false reputation for humanity, who represented themselves as exclusively the friends of the poor, and who promoted, with that view, the abuses of the old poor laws. All these interests were seconded and hallooed on by the efforts of a portion of the press —a portion which lent itself to misrepresentation of the intentions of those who wished to reform the law, and to traduce their efforts, as tending to the injury of the poor. There were, undoubtedly, great obstacles in the way of reform; but it did so happen that circumstances tended very much to the success of that reform. There had been, in the first place, the circumstance, alike honourable to this and the other House of Parliament, that in the discussion of the subject no question of party was mixed up. In the next place, the great body of the magistracy of the country were convinced of the evil tendency of the then existing laws, and were willing to try any fair experiment of reform; and lastly, there existed a very strong feeling throughout the country, that if some strong remedy was not attempted, the abuses of the Poor-
 714 715 716 717 "We found the Board of Guardians preparing a Memorial to forward to the Home Secretary, denying the correctness of the hon. Member for Finsbury's statement, and calling for the name of their accuser. They stated these points;—1st, there were only two married in the workhouse; 2nd, all the other married men were disposed of on out-allowances; 3rd. the two before-mentioned would have been disposed of in the same manner, but for the illness of their wives; 4th, they were separated from their wives because it was necessary that the latter should be in the infirmary; 5th, they were allowed to visit their wives in the day-time; 6th, they availed themselves of that permission daily." l. l. l. 718 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Robinson  was not sorry that this subject had been brought under the consideration of the House. He admitted that it was very easy to say, that certain parts of the Poor-law Amendment Act worked ill, and thus to hold it up to the objections of the poor peasants, but he did not say that that was the object of the hon. Member for Berkshire. He had not heard any remark from that hon. Member which could show that he had any other object than that of bettering the condition of the poor. The question which they had to consider was, whether the measure of the Poor-law Amendment Act was not too abrupt a measure, and had not been brought too suddenly into operation? On that point he would observe, that the Act could not have been carried into operation under circumstances more favourable than those which had occurred. Let the House recollect what those circumstances were. There was a greater cheapness of provisions, and a greater extent of employment, than had been known for many years. These facts would account for the great diminution of expenditure under the Poor-law system, and he thought, therefore, that it was not right to attribute the saving of 1,796,000 l. 719
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that after the statement made by the hon. Member for Berkshire, he should be glad to have some further explanation from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell). To him it appeared that the noble Lord had not given an answer to the case. The noble Lord had spoken of the evils of supporting able-bodied paupers, and also of paying wages out of the poor-rates. All that he admitted to be hard, as a general principle—but the cases were not provided for by the Poor-law Amendment Act. He admitted, that the Act said, that the family of an able-bodied pauper should not receive relief from the poor-rates—but in the progress of the Bill that principle was found to be so objectionable, that a power was given to the Poor-law Commissioners to modify the Act according to circumstances. The principle, however, was too much acted upon. If it was to be made applicable to more than one union, he had understood that the fact was to be laid before Parliament, and as no such return
 720
 Lord John Russell , in explanation said, that the Report, which would have included the case mentioned by the noble Lord, had been delayed because all the returns were not yet ready. As to the case of Petworth, he would observe, that it was left to the Poor-law Commissioners to fix the time when the principle of confining relief to in-door paupers should be acted upon; and from the statement that had been made as to the cheapness of provisions and the demand for labour, it was pretty clear that they had chosen the very best time for working out the principle.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that what he wanted to know was this—why if a different rule had been laid down in more than one Union than that which was followed in the others, the circumstances and the cause of it had not been laid before Parliament as the Act directed?
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the case of the blind man and his wife, to which allusion had been made, was not at Stow-market, but in the Union of Bosmere and Cleddon (as we understood), but the principle to which he objected had been acted upon in other places. In the parish of St. Martin-in-the-Fields, it was a rule that aged and infirm husband and wife should not be in the same apartments without a special order from the Commissioners. He had had several communications on the subject
 721 722 723 s. s.
 Mr. Cripps  wished to say, in reference to the Gloucester workhouse, that he was not aware of the precise nature of the allowance given to the paupers, but supposed it to be the same as in other workhouses.
 Sir Harry Verney  said, that though favourable to the new Poor-law, he was sensible that, in order to produce beneficial effects, it required to be carried into execution under favourable circumstances, and with the fullest co-operation from every class of the community. He was convinced that the effect of the former system was to injure and demoralize the labouring population. With regard to medical relief, he thought that the part of the measure which related to it required much consideration.
 Mr. Maclean  presumed, that regulations made by the Poor-law Commissioners for the guidance of the lately-formed unions did not come within the definition of general rules, because the Act required that, before they could be received as such, they must be submitted to the consideration of the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and afterwards receive the sanction of Parliament. He understood that the paupers were in many instances prevented from attending divine service at their own parish churches. If this were so, he presumed that it must be by some special regulation, as it contravened the principle of the general rules formerly laid down for the Commissioners. He then read an instance where the clergyman of a parish wrote to the Commissioners on this point, and received for answer that they had deemed it requisite, for the better guidance and conduct of the union, that the paupers should be kept within the walls of the workhouse on the Sabbath. Surely there ought to be no difficulty in allowing paupers to attend the parish church? In every union chaplains were appointed for the purpose of performing divine service within it; but there must be considerable difficulty in finding chaplains who were not the resident curates or ministers of the parish, and it would bear extremely hard upon the minister to insist that he should perform three full services in the same day. He could not but regard this practice of interdicting paupers from, attending the parish church as in all respects injurious, and militating against those principles of reverence for divine worship which ought to be implanted in the breast of every native of a Christian country. He believed that there was hardly a single case tried at a circuit, in which the judge had not to impress on the mind of the criminal that his crime arose from neglecting, in the first instance, to attend divine worship on the Sabbath. He believed that this circumstance more than any
 725 s. d.
 Mr. Harvey  was gratified to observe the attention paid by the House to a motion which had little to recommend it, except that it proposed to inquire into circumstances which deeply affected the feelings and interests of a class who were not directly represented in that House. The noble Lord had observed that the author of the Bill, the noble Lord who was at the time Chancellor of the Exchequer, deserved the confidence and respect of the country for following out a measure which concerned the interests of millions with such singular energy and promptitude. He was sorry to see that the exertions then made had produced such exhaustion in the Government that no more energy was left for anything else; for were but a tithe of the determination and perseverance which had marked their conduct of the measure applied to matters of mere numerical calculation, they would not now find the order book crowded with measures which remained to be considered, partial in their operation, and dubious in their utility. It had been said that the labourers throughout
 726 727 728
 Sir Broke Vere  supported the resolution. Since the house had delegated such extraordinary powers to the Commissioners, he thought they were bound in justice to take care that those powers were not abused. They were at present unacquainted with the rules laid down by the Commissioners for the management of the poor, nor had a copy of those regulations ever been laid on the table, though the Act required that they should be submitted to the consideration of the House. He thought that the Commissioners ought instantly to be called on for an explanation of this part of their conduct. With regard to the attendance of paupers at their own parish church, if this could not be permitted without occasioning irregularity, he thought that a chaplain should be appointed to each union.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that as the only Member who had been one of the Commissioners of Inquiry into the Poor-laws, he wished to address a few words to the House on the question before it. What, he would ask, were the facts of the case? He believed that only two petitions had been presented
 729 730
 Mr. Brotherton  begged leave to state one or two facts connected with this subject that had come to his own personal knowledge. He must say, however, that he would not presume to offer any opinion upon the working of the Poor-law Act, he would merely refer to what, in some instances, had been its effects. They all knew the fluctuations to which trade was liable, and that a great number of able-bodied persons might at once be thrown out of employment, and unless the overseers or guardians of the poor had some means of remedying the evils that must in such cases arise, it must occasion great and severe distress. What had been the operation of this Bill in the agricultural districts he was not prepared to say, but in the manufacturing districts it had
 731 s. 732
 Mr. Plumptre  had, during the last year, attended a union in his neighbourhood, and but for this long and tedious Session, would be attending it this year. He could testify, as far as his own observations enabled him to do so, that the Poor-law Act had operated very beneficially. He agreed with the hon. Member for Berkshire that the reduction of poor-rates was a matter of minor consideration. He believed, however, that a reduction of poor-rates had been effected to a very consider-able extent—to the amount of fifty per cent. Still he allowed that this was a matter of minor consideration. The Bill had worked well in those districts in which a feeling and considerate man must wish to see it work well. He believed that it was considered to work well in the opinion of the people themselves. It could not but be expected, that in a bill by which so great a change was to be effected from the old system some places would feel it with greater severity than others. No one could more deeply regret than he regretted that such should be the case, but he believed that in general the Bill had worked well. It worked well, inasmuch as it was gradually raising up in the people a better and more independent feeling, and it was doing away with that perpetual drain which, under the old system, was not gradually consuming, but devouring the country. The present system encouraged those feelings amongst the population which he was desirous to see encouraged. He knew this to be a fact—that when, before these alterations, the parent had been negligent of his children, and the children of their parent, that under the present operation of the law the parent was taking care of his children, and the children of their parent. The workhouses were not intended to be nurseries of idleness and luxury—
 733
 Colonel Sibthorp  felt such strong objections to the Poor-law Act altogether, that he conceived he was only discharging his duty in voting for the motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  felt it his duty to give his support to the motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire. There was a great deal in the Poor-law Act that was a gross infringement on the liberties of Englishmen, and degrading to their feelings and character. Various cases had come to his personal knowledge of great hardship and oppression, which loudly called for inquiry. He should not feel that he was discharging the first duty that every Member of that House owed to the poor if he did not support the motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire.
 Mr. Richards  denied, that the present system of Poor-laws tended to raise wages or to make the labourer independent.
 Mr. George F. Young  was not about to enter into any details on this subject; he merely rose to ask what was intended by the charge brought forward by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton against those who, like him, intended to support the proposition of the hon. Member for Berkshire? The hon. Member said, that they were actuated by a desire to lower the rate of wages, and to restore the abuses of the old system. He, for his own part, utterly repudiated this charge. He wished to call the attention of the House to a fact that struck him as remarkable, and which had not been referred to by the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The noble Lord had stated, that there had been a diminution in the sum expended in the relief of the poor in the years 1835 and 1836 of 1,500,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Villiers  had made no imputations he had only stated the effect of hon. Members' votes.
 Mr. Lennard  objected to the first amendment. He thought it most unjust for the Church to have a power of appointing one of the three arbitrators, whilst it controlled and influenced the others. He trusted that the House would reject this amendment.
 Lord J. Russell  did not think this an amendment of any great importance or so objectionable, or that any unfair advantage had been taken. The Bill originally stood as the Lords had amended it.
 Mr. Lennard  would not press his objection.
 Mr. Curteis  complained of an alteration having been made, by inserting an oath instead of a declaration. The clause had originally been agreed to in this House, and after the determination to which it had come with respect to oaths, he thought this alteration ought not to be agreed to merely to please persons in another place.
 Mr. Hume  concurred with the hon. Member for Sussex, and hoped he would take the sense of the House upon it.
 Lord J. Russell  thought the alteration not of such consequence as to call for a division. He owned, however, he very much preferred a declaration to an oath.
 Mr. Hume  hoped they should have the noble Lord's vote.
 The Attorney-General  thought the objection was quite unfounded. The oath was merely a promissory one for the proper performance of certain duties.
 Mr. Curteis  moved that the amendment be rejected.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  objected to the amendment of the Lords. This tithe, he observed, would fall chiefly on the poor; and he thought that the clergy, having got so great a benefit by the Bill as that of a certain fixed sum for what was before uncertain, they ought not to claim a tithe of this kind.
 Lord John Russell  admitted that the amendment of the Lords made in this respect a vexatious charge, but the difficulty he had was this—that the stable or shed in which the cows were kept would have rent-charge placed on it if the tithe on the cows was not admitted.
 Mr. Benett  said, that the tithe on cows thus kept would be most unjust, as they were fed on articles which had already paid tithe. He remembered a claim of the kind having been made about thirty years ago, in Hertford, and brought to a trial, and the jury gave it against the claim, on the ground that the cows were fed on articles which had already paid tithe.
 Captain Boldero  rose to put a question to he noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He wished to know whether his Majesty's Royal Marines, acting under Lord John Hay, in the service of the Queen of Spain, had been recalled from that service? He wished to know, also, whether any of them had been taken prisoners, and if so, whether they were liable to the decree of Don Carlos—a decree so contrary to the laws of nations, to the usages of warfare, and to all the feelings of humanity? It would be recollected that this decree was in existence before the British marines were sent out. He should feel obliged to the noble Lord if he would answer this question.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the judge who, on the 13th of July, had sentenced a man to execution on the 15th, acted according to the law as it then stood. He was not aware, until the Bill was printed, that it was to take effect immediately, but as soon as he knew that it was, he directed the Under-Secretary for the Home Department to forward copies of it to the judges.
 Colonel Perceval , before the Speaker
 746
 Colonel Perceval  believed that this was the clause which appointed two new officers —one to attend in the Court of Chancery,
 747
 Colonel Perceval  had no objection to the suitors being saved 20,000 l. l. l.
 Colonel Perceval  made no objection to a reform of the Court of Chancery. On the contrary, his objection was, that it did not go far enough. The examiner of the Court of Chancery had most important functions to perform. It was before him that all the evidence was given—the evidence was given in private—and it must be borne in mind, that upon evidence so taken the most important decisions with respect to properly were based. A person filling such a situation ought therefore to be placed beyond the possibility of being bribed to alter the evidence, and trustworthy persons could scarcely be expected to leave a lucrative profession and accept one of these offices unless he were adequately remunerated. The very Act under consideration made it impossible for any officer of the Court of Chancery to act as a solicitor, and under these circumstances he felt convinced, that the Committee would
 748 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d.
 Colonel Perceval  said, the principle of
 749
 Colonel Perceval  said, that no man had better claims for promotion than Mr. Long, and he rejoiced that he had been taken care of. He mentioned this, lest it might for a moment be supposed, that he cast the slightest reflection on the character of Mr. Long. The question he had put, however, was not answered by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, and he should now repeat it. He begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, whether, in appointing a successor to Mr. Long, the fair and equitable principle laid down in this Bill, of appointing by seniority, would be adhered to?
 Colonel Perceval  said, he believed the present was the proper time to propose the clause of which he had given notice. He did not see what solid objection could be urged against it. The Lord Chancellor of Ireland had encouraged him (Colonel Perceval) to press the clause, and that noble Lord stated, that if rejected on the present occasion, it might be made the groundwork of future legislation.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that he felt the injustice committed on Mr. Fenton to be so great, that he must take the sense of the Committee upon the clause.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that great efforts had been made with the Government of the Queen of Spain to enter into an arrangement which would be mutually advantageous to both countries. He was sorry to say that there did exist a jealousy on the part of the Spanish Government towards the British navigation on account of that Government having only a small commercial marine. The petitioners complained, that fish from Newfoundland paid more when carried in British than in Spanish ships, and they prayed that a duty might be imposed upon the fish. Now, to use a vulgar expression, that would be "cutting off our nose to spite our face;" for we could scarcely even now compete with the Spaniards in their own market, and by imposing a duty upon the fish, we would not only lose the carrying, as at present, but we
 702
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would avail himself of that opportunity to make a statement of the alterations which he intended to propose in the existing custom duties. Owing to the state of the revenue, he was happy to state to the House, that he should be able to relieve a class of articles, which he had long been anxious to relieve, from the oppressive duties to which they were at present liable. He would commence with the article of spices. After the best consideration which he could give to the subject, he found that there were four articles of spices on which an alteration of the duties was particularly desirable. These articles were pepper, pimento, cloves, and mace. The duty on pepper was at present 1 s. d. d. l. l. d. d. d. d. d. 740 d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. s. l. 741 s. s. d. 742 d. d. l. l. s. s. l. l. d. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 743
 Mr. Charles Wood  was sorry to be obliged to trespass on the time of the House. The hon. and learned Member's motion stood for the 26th of July. On that day, on going into the orders of the day, the hon. and learned Member took that opportunity of asking, which was somewhat irregular, whether he (Mr. Wood) was prepared to accede to his motion, and to produce the returns he had given notice he would move for: this in itself was very irregular. He told the hon. and learned Member, that there was a certain part of his motion to which he could not accede, but that he was prepared to give one-half of the papers moved for. No motion was then made on the subject. He found by the notice-paper that the motion was postponed till the 26th of July: the hon. and learned Member, however, had not made his motion. With regard to the question, whether it was usual in all cases to publish a return of the killed and wounded, he would reply most distinctly not. It was not usual on all occasions. It was usual on all great occasions that they should have a list of the killed and wounded. He could, however, repeat, that he had not the slightest objection to publish the return in the present instance. There was the list, and if the hon. and learned Member would only alter the words of his motion, he was ready to lay it upon the table of the House.
 Mr. Charles Wood  thought, that the question might more properly be directed to him. He had no hesitation in saying, that no orders had been sent out to withdraw those marines that were attached to the squadron under the command of Lord John Hay. With regard to the executions that had been committed by the order of Don Carlos, the hon. and gallant Member had justly described them as contrary to the laws of nations, and contrary to all the feelings of humanity; but it was impossible for him to say what had passed under those orders. He was happy to be able to say, that as far as the British marines were concerned, not one of them had suffered this most outrageous and atrocious usage.
 Mr. Charles Wood  could not suppose that the hon. and learned Member was anxious for the papers he had mentioned; for, although he had given notice of his inten-
 737
 Mr. Maclean  was sure that the House would indulge him for a few moments, after the manner in which he had been alluded to. He thought that he had a fair right to complain of the statement of the hon. Gentle-man. He understood from the hon. Gentleman, that he should be put in possession of the returns he was anxious to obtain, and that he should thus be saved the trouble of moving for them. After the hon. Gentleman had acceded to his request in part, it was too much to say, that the hon. Gentleman had been waiting for his motion. The hon. Gentleman had given him all that he required, except what was not absolutely necessary, and for that portion which was refused he was left to make a motion in order to obtain them. The hon. Gentleman knew perfectly well that, as orders of the
 738 Gazette
 Mr. Maclean , in moving for the papers mentioned in his notice of motion, wished likewise to ask a question—namely, whether it was not usual, in all cases where the King's troops were engaged in a casualty or accident, that there appeared a bulletin or official  Gazette,
 Mr. Shaw  would say in the Committee, as he had to the gentleman in whose behalf the clause was moved, and for whom he (Mr. Shaw) had a personal regard, that if he had communicated to him on the subject in Ireland, and thereby afforded him an opportunity of full inquiry into it, he should have been happy to have afforded him any assistance in his power, consistent with the general object of the measure; but he would not now venture to support an alteration in so important a Bill without knowing what might be its effect. He would recommend his hon. and gallant Friend not to press the clause, but having introduced the subject to let it lie over for another Session, and if in the mean time it appeared that such an alteration in the examiner's office would be desirable, and form, a part of the system of reform now working in the court, he (Mr. Shaw) would in that case be happy to give the object his support.
 Mr. Shaw  could not, even at that late hour, avoid bearing his testimony in favour of the Bill then under consideration. He took a particular interest in the subject, from the circumstance of his having some Sessions ago introduced a Bill himself with a view to stimulate the reforms, some of which had since been accomplished, and others, including those provided by the present measure, were now in process of being accomplished. It was particularly gratifying to him to have it in his power to state that the Lord Chancellor of Ireland now perfectly concurred with the Master of the Rolls, in giving effect to those general orders referred to in the Chancery Act, in respect of which he (Mr. Shaw) had, on a former occasion, been disposed to make some complaint. So far from the present measure being one of favouritism or partiality, he was perfectly satisfied that it had been prepared by the two eminent judges to whom he had alluded, with a single view to the public good, and to diminish the expenses of the suitors of the Court over which they presided. Though Gentlemen unacquainted with the technicalities of a court of equity might not easily understand the details of the Bill, nor their immediate object, yet he believed that he was safe in assuring them of a fact which would be perfectly intelligible to them all. That the result of the system of reform which was then in progress in the Irish Court of Chancery, and of which that Bill formed a part, would be a saving to the suitors of that court of about two-thirds of the former expenses of an equity suit. Under these circumstances, he confessed that he would be very reluctant, and he hoped that the House would participate in the sentiment, to interfere with the details of a measure that had been prepared with much care, and in the spirit he had mentioned, by persons above all others the most competent to judge of its practical working.
 Mr. George F. Young  had a few observations to offer upon the first petition presented by the hon. Member, which was one of considerable importance. He recollected that about three years ago an hon. Member brought the subject of the Reciprocity Act and the conduct of the Spanish Authorities under the notice of Government; but, although it was admitted that they pressed most severely on British interests, the reply of the Government at that time was, that the political state of Spain was such as to prevent the Act from being rigidly enforced. He hoped that the matter would be taken into consideration by his Majesty's Ministers.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, the Attorney-General might take what blame he pleased to himself on the occasion, but it was his intention, in framing the Bill, that it should be in force from the time of its passing, and he thought the judges might have taken notice of it even before it was printed.
 Mr. Aglionby  wished to put a question to
 745
 The Speaker  said, that the proper course
 739
 Dr. Bowring  eulogised the liberal system of commercial policy which his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade, had adopted, and hoped that by a steady adherence to it our law of customs might be reduced before long to a very short compass. He thanked his right hon. Friend for the reductions he had made, and predicted that they would be generally satisfactory to the country.
 Mr. Hume  said, if there was any delay in the printing of the Bill, it arose out of the system of giving the monopoly of printing to one party.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, that if he could, consistently with his duty, sanction the passing of a clause which secured to the
 750 l. l.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, the Bill abolished the office of Six Clerks altogether, and substituted these two readers in their place. The suitors of the court would, by the contemplated arrangements, be saved up wards of 20,000 l.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, that the registrar of deeds had nothing to do with this Bill. The present was a Bill to abolish certain offices connected with the Court of Chancery, and to provide for the performance of the duties thereof. With respect to Mr. Long, that gentleman arrived in Ireland with Sir A. Harte, a perfect stranger, but he gave such satisfaction to both branches of the profession, that when a vacancy occurred in the registry of deeds office, a memorial, signed most numerously, was presented to the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tam worth, at that time at the head of the Government, praying the appointment for Mr. Long, and that right hon. Baronet, greatly to his credit, conferred it upon him.
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, that the hon. Member for Sligo was misinformed. There were two readers in the English Court of Chancery.
 Colonel Rushbrooke  would avail himself of that opportunity to give an explanation of a statement made by the hon. Member for Finsbury, on a petition presented to that House by the hon. Member for Berkshire, complaining of oppressive conduct pursued by the guardians of the poor at Stowmarket. The hon. Member for Finsbury stated, that "a poor decrepit woman was not allowed to attend on her husband, who was blind, until a special order had been obtained for that purpose; and also that another woman who had employed a different surgeon than the one attached to the workhouse to attend on her, had her allowance withdrawn, and before she would consent to the change she was nearly starved." He had made it his business to go over to Stowmarket to ascertain the truth of the accusation, and, after a most strict inquiry of the clerk, and the most active of the guardians at Stowmarket, he was prepared to give the statement of the hon. Member a complete refutation. In this they could not be mistaken, for the first instance of the separation of man and wife took place on the 8th of July; and it was only resorted to when sufficient accommodation could not be had. The guardians denied ever having applied to the Commissioners for a special order, or any order whatever: and as for the surgeons, there were three of them attached to the union, all able and humane men, and no complaint bad been heard against them
 700
 Mr. Maunsell  presented a Petition from the Board of Guardians of the Poor of a place in Northamptonshire against any alteration in the Poor-law Bill that would affect the' working of the system in that district.
 Mr. Wakley  stated, that shortly after making the statement on Wednesday, an hon. Member from the opposite side of the House came over to him, and he gave him the name of his informant, and even read the letter containing the charge. He (Mr. Wakley) was not to be held answerable for the misrepresentations of the proceedings of that House which went forth. He did not, however, wonder that there should have been a mistake in the way they were reported on that occasion, for much excitement prevailed at the time. The first charge of the blind man being ill, and his wife not being allowed to attend on him until a special order from the Commissioners, did not apply to Stowmarket, but to the union of Besemere; the other charge related to Stowmarket, and they had been confounded together. The hon. Member read the letter of the medical officer who attended on the woman at Stowmarket, in which he stated that he had attended on her, and that she had complained bitterly of the poverty she suffered before she consented to give him up as her attendant, and it was not until one of the guardians told her that she should receive no further relief that she consented.
 Mr. Ewart  rejoiced in the reductions which the right hon. Gentleman had made, but regretted that he had not made a reduction in the duty on Neapolitan olive oil. That reduction would have been a boon of very great importance to the manufacturing interests of the country.
 The Attorney-General  said, he took some blame to himself for not having seen, as it was his duty, that the Act should come into force at a fixed time after it passed, and not, as was the case in this instance, that it should be in force on the day it passed.
 Lord Morpeth  moved that the House should resolve itself into Committee on the Court of Chancery (Ireland) Bill.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that an Act of Parliament vested the appointment in the Crown, and he saw no reason why the privilege should not be exercised agreeably to that Act.
 Lord John Russell  said, in rising to propose a motion on the subject of the amendments made by the House of Lords in the Bill, which was fixed for consideration this day, I feel it incumbent upon me, in the situation I have the honour to hold here, to call the attention of the House for a few minutes to a question relating to its privileges. When the Bill which had relation to the Municipal Corporations of Ireland was before us, returned from the other House, I took the liberty of stating, that I thought there were only three courses to be pursued: to reject the amendments—to reject them in part, to agree to them in part—and to reject them for the purpose of introducing a new Bill. My observation was not followed up in the course of the debate which ensued, either on the opposite side of the House or on this. I feel it, therefore, the more incumbent upon me to take notice of the alterations in the Bill now upon the table, because I am of opinion with one of the early authorities of this House—I mean Mr. Pym—that our privileges are not matters of form or of light import, but of great weight and value. I should, therefore, be sorry that the House should take into consideration the nature of the amendments of the Lords—my observation upon the former Bill not having, as I said, been matter of debate—without pointing out in what manner they might be looked upon as affecting our privileges, and without giving some warning to the House (I should think myself unpardonable if I did not offer it) that those privileges with respect to the alterations made in bills, more especially in bills concern-
 761 l. 762 763 764 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 765 l. l. l. 766 l. l. l. l. l. l. 767 768 769 770 "The burthen of the cry was, 'It is no time for concession, the people are turbulent, and the Association dangerous.' That summer passed, and the ferment subsided not. Autumn came, but brought not the blessed fruit of peace; on the contrary, all Ireland was convulsed with the unprecedented conflict which returned the great chief of the Catholics to sit in a Protestant Parliament. Winter bound the earth in chains, but it controlled not the popular fury, whose surges, more deafening than the tempests, lashed the frail bulwarks of law founded upon injustice. Spring came, but no 'ethereal mildness' was its harbinger, or followed in its train; the Catholics became stronger by every month's delay, displayed a deadlier resolution, and proclaimed their wrongs in a tone of louder defiance than before. And what course did you, at this moment of greatest excitement, and peril, and menace, deem it most fitting to pursue? Eight months before, you had been told how unworthy it would be to yield when men clamoured and threatened. No change had happened in the interval, save that the clamours were far more deafening, and the threats beyond comparison more overbearing. What, nevertheless, did your Lordships do? Your duty; for you despised the cuckoo-note of the season 'not to be intimidated.' You granted all that the Irish demanded, and you saved your country. Was there in April a single argument advanced which had not held good in July? None, absolutely none, except the new height to which the dangers of longer delay had risen, and the increased vehemence with which justice was demanded; and yet the appeal to your pride which had prevailed in July, was made in vain in April, and you wisely and patriotically granted what was asked, and ran the risk of being supposed to yield through fear." * * 771 772 773
 Sir Robert Peel : The motion with which the noble Lord has concluded his speech is, of course, tantamount to the total rejection of the amendments made in the Bill by the House of Lords, and necessarily amounts to a postponement, for another year, of the long-agitated question of tithes in Ireland. The noble Lord has rested his opposition to the amendments of the Lords upon a double ground
 774 775 "From the beginning of the present century, a period of above fourscore years, the claim of the House of Commons to their rights and privileges in matters of supply, have been seldom, or but faintly, controverted by the Lords. The rules which they have from time to time laid down to be observed in Bills of aid, or in Bills imposing charges and burthens upon the people, have been very generally acquiesced in; and the practice of both Houses of Parliament has been uniformly adapted to these rules. It may, perhaps, be difficult to express with precision and correctness the doctrine which is to be collected out of these precedents; but, as far as my observation has gone, I think the following propositions contain pretty nearly everything which has at any time been claimed by the Commons upon this subject;—First, that in Bills of aid and supply, as the Lords cannot begin them, so they cannot make any alterations, either as to the quantum of the rate, or the disposition of it, or, indeed, any amendment whatsoever, except in correcting verbal or literal mistakes; and even these the House of Commons direct to be entered especially in their journals, that the nature of the amendments may appear; and that no argument prejudicial to their privileges may be hereafter drawn from their having agreed to such amendments. Secondly, that in Bills which are not for the special grant of supply, but which, however, impose burthens upon the people, such as Bills for turnpike roads, for navigations, for paving, for managing the poor, &c, for which tolls and rates must be collected. In these, though the Lords may make amendments, these amendments must not make any alteration in the quantum of the toll or rate, in the disposition or duration of it, or in the persons, commissioners, or collectors appointed to manage it. In all the other parts and clauses of these Bills, not relative to any of these matters, the Commons have not objected to the Lords making alterations or amendments. Thirdly, where the Bill, or the amendments made by the Lords, appear to be of a nature which, though not immediately, yet in their consequences, will bring a charge upon the people, the Commons have denied the right of the Lords to make such amendments, and the Lords have acquiesced. And, lastly, the Commons assert that the Lords have no right to insert in a Bill pecuniary penalties or forfeitures, or to alter the pecuniary forfeitures
 776 777 John Russell:
 Lord John Russell : I never wished to raise that question, but I expressed a doubt as to whether the Lords were justified in altering that part of the Bill which contained a grant to the Consolidated Fund.
 Sir Robert Peel : I certainly did not understand before, that the single point upon which the noble Lord limited his doubts as to interference with the constitutional privileges of the Commons, was that of the amendments of the Lords affecting the amount of the payment to the Consolidated Fund. That, however, is a single point upon which we ought to have the benefit of your opinion, Mr. Speaker, before we proceed further. It is a matter of indifference to me which course the House may take; but I do not wish the discussion of the main question to be prejudiced by the introduction of another topic. If you, Sir, should be of opinion that the amended Bill does encroach on the privileges of this House, I am ready, following the precedents which I have read, to act on your suggestion, and decide, on that ground, for its rejection. If, on the other hand, Mr. Speaker, you should be of opinion that no ground for doubt upon that point exists, I agree with Mr. Hatsell that it would not be right for us to urge pretensions which we cannot support, and I will proceed to argue the substantial merits of the question. Before I call upon you, Sir, for your opinion, I will premise, that whatever may be the phraseology of the Bill, I never understood, in the course of the debates which occurred upon it, that the surplus of the Irish Church revenues was to be carried to the Consolidated Fund, for the purpose of diminishing the burthens of the people. I heard it argued—and by no one more
 778
 Lord John Russell : before the Speaker delivers his opinion, I wish to state distinctly what I really did say. I said that that part of the Bill which gave a portion of the tithes to the Consolidated Fund might bring the question formally within the privileges of the House. I stated further, that it was my opinion the Bill was not intended to grant a supply to his Majesty, and I added, that, in my opinion, the question of privilege was not distinctly raised, and that we might proceed to discuss the merits of the question.
 Sir Robert Peel : I thought I heard the noble Lord say that there were times in the history of our ancestors, when a measure not differing much in principle from the present, was rejected by this House with indignation, on account of the amendments to which it had been subjected by the Lords. The noble Lord described the manner in which the unlucky Bill had been tossed by the Speaker over the table, and kicked by the Members out of the doors of the House. I thought that the object of a remark of that kind, was to show that if we now were to rest satisfied with the  gemilus columbœ 779
 The Speaker : as my opinion has been called for, I shall endeavour to state it as clearly and briefly as I can, consistently with the importance of the subject. If the Bill had been limited to a new distribution of the existing property of the Irish Church, I am of opinion that a difference between this House and the House of Lords, as to the proportions in which that property should be distributed, would not have been a violation of the privileges of the Commons. If the grant of 50,000 l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel : If the Lords had retained the clause relative to the Consolidated Fund, and altered it, I apprehend the Bill must have been rejected, but the Lords have omitted it altogether. The Bill did contain a money grant which is no longer to be found in it.
 The Speaker : all I meant to say was this,—that the House of Commons, having made a grant of money upon the consideration of the Bill being returned to them as it went up to the Lords, and that consideration not having been fulfilled, a question of privilege may thereby arise.
 Sir Robert Peel : then I think I may assume that the question is disembarrassed of the point of privilege, and that I am at liberty to address myself to the merits of the question. I now, therefore, approach the second and more important part of the noble Lord's speech—namely, the objections which he urged on principle to the acceptance of the Lords' amendments. The subject has been so repeatedly discussed, and every argument which can be used with reference to it is so trite, that I am sure I shall consult the general wish 'of the House by contracting my observations within as narrow limits as possible. I beg to call the attention of the House to what the amendments made by the Lords will effect. What is the arrangement made by the joint consent of Lords and Commons, which the noble Lord now proposes that we should reject? The Bill brought down from the Lords, would if we acceded to it, make this arrangement on the subject of tithes in Ireland, and the regulation of the Established Church in that country—it would deduct twenty-five per cent, from the amount of tithes composition. The Bill we sent up to the Lords made a deduction of thirty per cent.; and the noble Lord says he can see no reason why that proposition should not have been acceded to. I may make exactly the same observation with respect to the proposed deduction of twenty-five per cent. The matter is one which, from its very nature, will not admit of close logical deduction. We have been told, that by agreeing to make a deduction of twenty-five per cent., we have consented to the alienation of church property for the benefit of the Irish landlords, and that, therefore, it is perfectly absurd in us to object to its alienation for the purposes of general instruction. But we do not consent to the deduction of twenty-five per cent., as an alienation of church property; we consent to it as a just compensation to the landlords for taking upon themselves a new liability; and if the noble Lord can prove that twenty-five per cent. is too much to allow for that purpose, and that twenty per cent. is sufficient, I will vote
 781 "Whereas, with a view of rendering the incomes arising from tithes more certain in amount, and more easy of collection, several Acts have been, from time to time, passed for the establishment of compositions for tithes throughout Ireland; but the interposition of Parliament is necessary in reference to various circumstances peculiar to that part of the United Kingdom; and whereas it is expedient to make provision for uniting and dividing benefices, and for the altering the boundaries and regulating the incomes thereof, with a view to the better distribution of ecclesiastical duties and revenues; and, whereas it is just and necessary for the establishment of peace and good order in Ireland, and conducive to religion and morality, that the said compositions for tithes shall be made payable by persons having a perpetual estate or interest in the lands subject thereto, a reasonable deduction being made upon the amount thereof in consideration of the greater facility and security of collection arising out of such transfer of the liability to the payment thereof from the occupying tenantry to the owners of such estates or interests, &c." 782 l. l. l. 783 l. l. 784 l. 785 l. maximum l. maximum 786 l. de novo; d. d. d. 787 l. l. l. 788 l. l. l. 789 790 791 "I am deeply sensible and much concerned at the impression which I feel this measure is likely to make. I cannot conceal from myself that it will, in the first instance, and for a certain time, be a heavy blow and a great discouragement to Protestantism in Ireland, and that also it will be a great triumph to the adverse party. I admit that for an interval of time there must be great alarm and danger, which must necessarily attend and accompany such mighty and fundamental changes, and that shocks and convulsions must occur, which may render doubtful the safety not only of the Established Church, but of the Constitution itself." 792
 Mr. E. Denison : If the proposition of the noble Lord were, as it was stated to be by the right hon. Baronet, that the House should reject all the substantial good of its own measure, because it could not attain a visionary benefit, I, for one, would vote against its adoption; but if the truth be, that the benefits of the Bill were damaged in their most vital parts—if the majority, who, up to this time, had asserted the great principles embodied in the original Bill, had done so from a sincere conviction of their propriety and justice, he could not conceive how any one could now depart from those principles, and negative the value of all his former votes. The real question involved is no less a one than this: In the settlement of Irish affairs, shall the great body of the Irish people be considered, or not taken into the account? We, on this side, maintain that they ought to be, whether the question relates to civil or ecclesiastical affairs—to corporations or to tithes. There are two great objects to be obtained; first, to maintain the Establishment, which, from its anomalous character, requires a mode of reasoning unsuited to any other case, and peculiarly its own; secondly, to give some satisfaction and contentment to the Irish people. But in this difficult position of affairs, Gentlemen opposite insist on standing on the extreme of principle, and will not admit of a compromise; and yet what has our legislation been for years pa t but a perpetual course of necessary compromises? Look at the Irish Church Temporalities Bill, under which we live as the law. The noble Lord who introduced it, taking a view of the whole state of the Church, at once saw that the head of the Establishment was overcharged, and proposed a reduction of ten Bishops. Was that no compromise? Next, livings where service had not been performed for three years, were to be suspended. Strange sound to the ears of the religious people of this country. No church service performed for three years! A clergyman appointed, tithes regularly paid, but no
 793 794
 Viscount Sandon  challenged any hon. Gentleman on the opposite side of the House, to point out to him any one practical benefit which the people of Ireland could, by possibility, derive from the passing of the Bill under consideration. Was there any one object to be gained from it but the assertion of a principle to which
 795 l. No.
 Mr. Hume : The noble Lord had asked a very fair question of hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House, and if they were unable to return any answer to it, they would undoubtedly not be justified in supporting the Bill as it originally stood, and would be bound to vote with the noble Lord. The noble Lord had asked what practical benefit would result from the Bill. He would inform him presently; but before he did so, he would refer to another and more novel observation of the noble Lord's. He had said that this was a party question, brought forward for a party purpose, and not with any reference to the merits of the Bill. Now he would tell the noble Lord, that he and those who were acting with
 796 797 798 l. 1. l. 799 800 801 802
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that the hon. Member for Middlesex, had frequently claimed credit throughout his speech for candour, and he (Mr. Shaw) owned the hon. Member was entitled to it with, however, one exception. The hon. Member should have had the fairness and candour to inform the House what that class of animals was who thought they could see nothing but themselves. He could not but suspect, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) who so loudly cheered, and had so frequently made suggestions to the hon. Member throughout his speech, had given him a hint of the simile. The hon. Member had, indeed, been candid in admitting first, that this was a party question, and surely, to use the expression of the hon. Member himself, he could hardly "brazen it forth," that the party spirit in that respect was on his side of the House, for the hon. Member could not forget that it was in that spirit alone, that his appropriation principle was introduced by those with whom the hon. Member now acted, admittedly for the purpose—and it, served that purpose—of removing the right hon. Baronet from office; and it was the same tie which, for a time, held together the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) and his Majesty's Ministers, without any real bond of union between them. The hon. Member himself indeed admitted, in further proof of his candour, that while his Majesty's Ministers recommended this measure as a final and a permanent one, he only regarded it as a first step in that principle of alienation for which alone the hon. Member, gave this Bill his support. The hon. Member said he regarded it as but a first instalment—as the insertion of the point of the wedge by which he hoped ultimately to break up and destroy the Established
 803 804 l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l.; l. l. l 805 l l. l.; l. l. l. 806 l., l. l. l., 
 
 Tax to be paid to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners £20,000 
 Sinecures and suppressed benefices to go to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners 22,000 
 Glebes overcharged 10,000 
 Loss on revision of compositions 10,000 
 Supposing the lay patronage to be 50,000 l. 25,000 
 Rent-charge on collection 2½ per cent 9,000 
 96,000 
 Besides which the noble Lord (Morpeth) proposed to leave 1,250 benefices, and to give to each thirty acres of land, which is to be exclusive of incomes 807 
 
 The glebes being so small must be good land, say worth 20 s. 37,000 
 Glebes are of no use without houses—there would be 400 of the above benefices without houses. Suppose them, on an average, to cost 700 l., l., 11,200 
 144,200 
 These various items making a sum of 144,200 l. £97,000 l. 808 809 810
 Mr. O'Loghlen  said, there were two questions under the consideration of the House: the motion of the noble Lord to postpone the consideration of the Lords' amendments upon this Bill, to that day three months, and the amendment of the right hon. Baronet, that those amendments should at. once be taken into consideration. Any one who had heard for the first time the discussion which had that evening taken place upon the subject of Irish tithes, would possibly be led to imagine that, some entirely new proposition was contained in the Bill as sent down from the Lords, and that the measure was one which had never before been discussed and decided upon by that House. The House of Lords proposed, that twenty-five per cent, of tithe composition in Ireland, should be taken from the clergy and given to the landlords, and this proposition was one which hon. Members opposite called upon the House joyfully to accede to as a final and satisfactory settlement of the question. Now, in the year 1834, it happened that a Bill was sent up from that House to the House of Lords, where it was thrown out by a majority of sixty-seven, which Bill contained a proposition conferring upon the Irish landlords a benefit of
 811 bonus bonus 812 813 814 815 816 "Suppose the hon. Member for Colchester to rise and move the appropriation of Church property to other than their present objects, and the hon. Member for Montrose to second that motion, do you mean to tell me that the Catholic would be acting against his Parliamentary oath if he sanctioned such a measure, so moved and seconded by Protestants, and probably supported too by sixty or seventy other Protestants in this House, would the Catholics be restricted from supporting that vote by the oath in the Bill? Answer that—let the casuists from Oxford or Cambridge answer that if they can. I was asked a question, I answered it; and now, in my turn, I ask, I
 817 * l. ✶ 818
 Sir James Graham  begged, though with reluctance, to trespass on the attention of the House while he offered a few observations on this question. He was unwilling to give a silent vote, but he should detain the House for only a short time. He did not propose to address himself to all the topics which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had adverted to in the course of his speech. A great portion of the address of the hon. and learned Gentleman certainly was not immediately connected with the question before the House; therefore he trusted that the House would pardon him if he did not much dwell upon that portion. The hon. and learned Gentleman had adverted to the circumstance of the oaths taken by Roman Catholics. He was himself a strenuous supporter of the Roman Catholic Relief Bill; and he begged to say, that if he had not felt that the Roman Catholic Members of this House could be bound by an oath as strictly as the Protestants, he would not have been a supporter of their claims. He remembered that when a motion was made by a right hon. Friend of his (Mr. Wilmot Horton) for the admission of Roman Catholics into Parliament, but denying to them the privilege of voting, he divided against that motion; because he thought, that if they were not bound by their oaths in any matter, whether of detail or otherwise, he must be prepared to withdraw from supporting their admission into Parliament for any purposes. In consenting to admit them, he was not prepared to restrict them in the free exercise of their judgment on such questions as might come before them. He was satisfied it must be left, in any case, to the conscience of the Catholic Members, to determine what course they should pursue. They who framed the oath did so in the belief that it would be observed with peculiar caution in dealing with ecclesiastical subjects. If those hon. Members who, being Catholics, had voted for this measure as it was sent up to the Lords had felt as he did, that it had a tendency to throw the Church of Ireland into the hands of the Catholics, that it
 819 820 l. l. l. l. "What signifies to the poor man such a settlement of tithes as the Government Bill offers? 360,000 l. "For example, the several Tithe Bills which have been introduced. By these Bills the clergy are to get a share—the landlord a share—the poor nothing. Had the poor no prescriptive right to a portion of the tithes? Were they entitled to no consideration in the
 821 822 823
 Mr. Goring  rose to order. He wished to know whether this was the question new before the House?
 Sir James Graham : The hon. Member for Middlesex had gone into an inquiry as to what was the popular feeling in England respecting this resolution, and he imagined that he was speaking to the question when he was endeavouring to meet the observations of the hon. Gentleman. It was his wish and the wish of his Friends, to act on this question in the manner most conducive to the interests of this country and Ireland. The hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, who went this mission, would effect that object by means of Catholic ascendancy; he conceived that the means proposed and supported by the hon. and learned Gentleman would lead to the spoliation of the Protestant Church. Now what was said to his lamented friend? He was charged with being an apostate to his principles, he was branded as a renegade, and was pointed out as an individual whom it would be a duty on the first opportunity to deprive of his seat. What had taken place? The opportunity was given recently. Was the question as to the appropriation clause blinked? On the contrary, the issue joined was precisely on that question. The noble Lord had shook his head; but there was a witness present
 824 The freemen? Member: Member: 825 Cheers! Cheers! Hear, hear! l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 826 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 827 828 l.
 Mr. Sheil : The right hon. Baronet, while speaking of Newcastle, was interrupted by cries of" Triennial Parliaments." He did not seem to know the purport of the intimation. I can explain it to him. The new Member, who is represented as a Conservative, pledged himself to vote for Triennial Parliaments. His opponent declined to give any pledge, and had voted against the Reform Bill. The result of the Newcastle contest affords no ground of triumph; it is not on the hustings of Newcastle that the flag of triumphant Toryism ought to be planted. The right hon. Baronet adverted to the state of feeling in Cumberland. I know little of Cumberland, except from the impression produced there in 1831, by the right hon. Baronet himself, and the applauses which attended a very remarkable speech of his, appears to me to furnish evidence of the state of popular feeling in that county. The right hon. Baronet, on that occasion, called Sir J. Scarlett his "once-valued friend," but added, that he had become "a recreant Whig." The right hon. Baronet also expressed himself favourable to the practice of extorting pledges, and advised the people to insist upon Lord Lowther giving a pledge in favour of reform. These are the only indications which I have of the state of public feeling in Cumberland, but this appears to me to be sufficient to form a tolerably correct estimate of that county. The right hon. Ba-
 829 in commendam, l. l. 830 831 "Dear Tom, this brown jug, which foams with mild ale, Out of which I now drink to sweet Kate of the vale, Was once Toby Phillpot's—." 832 833 834 Le Roi le veut. 835 836 837 838
 Mr. Hodgson  stated, that in the late election for Newcastle, he had been returned without soliciting a single vote; and after having declared his determination not to lend his support in any way to the alienation of Church property to secular purposes in Ireland. With respect to the speech which had just been delivered by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, it abounded, particularly the latter part of it, in beautiful imagery and powerful figures, but he did not see that throughout the whole tenour of his address, the hon. and learned Gentleman had made one attempt to argue the question before the House upon
 839
 Mr. Cavendish  said, that down to 1824 the Duke of Devonshire's tithes were let
 848 l. l. l. l. Hansard, "Mr. Liltleton: As a desire had been ex-
 849 l. s. d. l. "Sir  Robert Peel "Mr.  O'Connell l. l. "Lord  Althorp "Lord  Duncannon "Mr.  Hume l "Mr.  Littleton 850
 Lord Stanley  having troubled the House much on this subject, and having done so twice during the present Session, it might believe him when he said, that he was as anxious as any hon. Member could be to bring the present debate to a close in as short a time as possible. But the real question was not before the House, and it had been hardly touched upon at all. It was not a question with reference to the Tithe Bill; it was not a question as to the sort of wealth possessed by the Irish Church; it was not a question referring to the conduct of the lay or ecclesiastical impropriators; it was not the merits of the question of appropriation which involved the question of the right of Parliament to appropriate, or the expediency of exercising such a right. The question he maintained was this, and this only —Will you accept so much of your own measure as both Houses of Parliament are willing to carry into effect, or will you for another year at least (and I say for a hopeless year) go on protracting the misery and wretchedness of the conflict between parties in Ireland and parties in England without effecting your own object, which you say you desire; which you say would be of infinite benefit, and which we admit, but which you will not consent to have accomplished with the consent of the House of Lords, and with consent and satisfaction of a large body of the Representatives of this House, unless you can attach to it that which we think objectionable, which we cannot accept? It was aye or no; would they accept the Lords' Amendments, or would they postpone them? Not even that; but would they consent to take the Lords' Amendments  seriatim 851 852 853 854 855
 Mr. George F. Young , unfettered by any connexion with political party, had voted on every opportunity for a settlement of the tithe question. He came down to the House, impressed with the propriety of voting for the Bill, as amended by the Lords, notwithstanding that the appropriation clause, for which he had previously voted, had been struck out of the Bill; but he was then unacquainted with the effects of the extensive alterations which had been made in the Bill in other respects, by which he saw that, so far from obtaining any surplus, the proposed redistribution would require an access above the Church revenues of no less than 134,550 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. Member should have a candid, full, and explicit answer to his question. He (Mr. O'Connell) did not mean to go on with his motion this Session, on account of the late period at which they had arrived, but every thing that had occurred since he had given notice of it, convinced him more than ever that it was absolutely necessary for the House of Commons to take up the question; and that in fact, it had become their imperative duty, being, as he was, thoroughly persuaded, that the very name of freedom would be extinguished in this country unless the House of Lords was reformed. He should bring the matter forward at the earliest, period next Session.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought he had answered the hon. Gentleman's question; he had certainly intended to do so. He would put such a notice on the order-book.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had such a Bill in preparation, but that some of the points in it requiring consideration, he found it necessary to postpone it till next Session.
 Lord John Russell  said, that there were many legal impediments to prevent the introduction of the principle into the Municipal Act, One great objection was on,
 760
 Mr. Pease  wished to know whether any Bill would be passed this Session, or, if not, would be introduced next Session, to enable towns that desired to be incorporated to have corporations granted to them.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that by law, the Crown possessed the power to grant Charters of Incorporation. Why had not that principle been adopted in the Municipal Act, so as to avoid the necessity of bringing in a new Bill on the subject?
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, that whenever such notice was given, he would give notice to have it expunged from the order-book.
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, that the hon. Gentleman had not answered his question, which was, whether he intended to put the notice of such a motion on the order-book for next Session.
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, that seeing the hon. Member for Kilkenny in his place, he wished to put a question to him. The
 759
 Colonel Sibthorp  was unwilling to interrupt the business of the House, but opposed as he was to this Bill, he felt it to be his duty to move, as an amendment, that this Bill be committed this day six months.
 Mr. A. Trevor  opposed the Bill. He did not consider that any benefit could be derived from a Bill of this description. He was assured that such a Bill could never pass, or if passed, could never come into operation while they had 10 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that this was not a Government measure. It had been brought forward by an hon. Gentleman who differed from the Government; and as the object of the Bill was to prevent bribery, it was his duty to support it. Hon. Gentlemen opposite, who said they were willing to prevent bribery, showed, however, that they had no desire to improve or amend the law. As to what an hon. Gentleman had said of the 10 l.
 Alderman Wood  declared, that in London the poorest constituents never asked, and never received, a shilling for their -votes, and never were paid for the time lost y them in exercising of their franchise.
 Mr. Forbes  considered, that he had every right to use his privilege as a Member of that House when he found a question of such vast importance discussed amongst a
 876
 Mr. Pryme  said, he could not see why Members who came down to the House should be prevented entering upon the business of the day, because others chose to absent themselves—why A, B, and C, should not be allowed to do their duties because X, Y, and Z were not there to join them.
 Mr. A Trevor  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Forster  opposed the Bill, contending that all attempts to incorporate the Jews with a Christian nation must ultimately prove abortive; London could never be made their Jerusalem. He had been a supporter of Catholic emancipation, but that question rested on different grounds from that of the Jews. He remembered on the discussion of that question, a predecessor of the right hon. Gentleman in the chair had expressed a hope that the time might never come when this country would cease to be constitutionally Protestant. He hoped that the time might not come when it would cease to be constitutionally Christian. He opposed the motion.
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought it was almost impossible that any Minister of the Crown could have brought forward such a measure in such a thin House, but he believed that he should not discharge his duty unless he moved that the House be counted.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  rose, as Chairman of the Committee appointed by that House, to propose the adoption by the House of the Resolutions
 861 seriatim, 862 863 bonâ fide
 Mr. Finch  had no wish to mix up politics and religion; but as Members of that House had to decide on matters relating to the Christian church, and to Christianity generally, he did not think that a Jew would be fit to take a part in such deliberations. There was a great difference between civil rights, and civil privileges. He would extend civil rights to the Jews but he considered that he did them no injustice in refusing them the privilege of being eligible to sit in Parliament. He did not believe that the people of this country were at all in favour of the measure, and on these grounds he would oppose it.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought, after the very clear and business-like observation they had heard, no one could doubt the eligibility of the plan. The hon. Member for Boston mistook the matter very much if he supposed that the difficulties
 865
 Mr. Benett  supported the Bill. If it was considered so important why did not hon. Members attend who intended to oppose it? The Jews were good and loyal subjects, and were fully entitled to equal privileges with all other British subjects. He strongly objected to mixing civil rights with religious opinions.
 Mr. Hardy  had been asked by his constituents upon the hustings, whether, if returned, he would vote against the Bill or not;
 873
 Mr. John Parker  alluded to the great additional expense which was entailed upon the parties having Bills before committees by the length of time which counsel was allowed to occupy. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would turn his attention to that part of the subject.
 Mr. Plumptre  would not go over the ground which had been taken up by his hon. Friends who opposed this Bill, but would content himself with saying, that he felt bound to support the Christian Constitution of the country, and, considering this Bill to be a direct insult to that Constitution, he should vote against it.
 Mr. Rundle  would support the Bill, because he thought laws which excluded any man from the enjoyment of civil rights on account of his religious opinions were opposed to the spirit of Christianity.
 Mr. Wilks  said, he feared that the alteration proposed by his Majesty's Ministers would not be of any great practical use. The House might think they were doing a great deal, when in fact they were doing little or nothing. Nothing was more unsatisfactory than the manner in which the private business of the House was conducted. The appointment of a new Select Committee of forty-two Members would be a serious injury, instead of a great good; it would lead to the increase of litigation, and a new system of expending the money of persons who make applications for Bills. Such things, in his opinion, were to be deprecated. They wanted something similar to that which existed in the House of Lords, to which every Bill might be referred—namely, a competent legal authority and legal officers. He did not think that the present plan would meet the substantial evils of which the country complained, and of which the House and every individual Member of it had a right to complain.
 Mr. Brotherton  could not give a silent vote on the present occasion. He declared that he would place more confidence in a man who did not profess to believe in a particular doctrine, than in one who professed to be a Christian, and yet lived in a manner that was dishonourable to his profession. He thought that the man who was willing to devote his life, property, and talents to the benefit of his fellow men, ought not to be deprived of his civil rights and privileges, which would enable him to fulfil his intentions, because he did not happen to agree with others on certain doctrines. Believing the Christ an religion to be one of pure charity and humanity, he should support the Bill.
 Mr. Borthwick  was ready to admit, that persecution was contrary to the spirit of Christianity, but the question came before the House in quite another shape. Christianity was an element of the civil polity of the realm, and though Roman Catholics had been admitted as Members of that House, that was no argument in favour of the Jews, inasmuch as both Protestants and Catholics drew their faith from the same source, but the Jews denied the very God in whom the others believed. If the Jews were admitted to legislate for the country, there would be, at once, an end to the connexion with the Christian religion as an element of the Constitution. What was the question? Was it not whether a Bill should be passed to disunite for ever the religion and politics of the British Government, and to destroy the great principles in which the
 874
 Mr. Potter  said, that the question was purely political in its character, and ought not to be considered with reference to religious creeds. The time was come when the civil disabilities of the Jews ought to be removed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had repeatedly postponed the measure at the suggestion of his hon. Friend opposite, and was, therefore, surprised that complaints should be made that it was brought forward in such a thin House. He denied that there was anything in the measure which was opposed to the spirit of the Christian religion. If such could be the case, the injury had already been done, because a bill of the same character had already received the sanction of large majorities in former Sessions of Parliament. The feeling out of doors was decidedly friendly to the principle of the measure, and the cities of London, Liverpool, Worcester, Leeds, Portsmouth, Edinburgh, &c, had petitioned in its favour. His hon. Friend said the Jews were a nation apart from this, but what had made them so? The barbarous policy that had been pursued towards them. He was anxious to make England their country and their home. He fervently hoped the decision of the House on this occasion would show, that the Commons of England were anxious to get rid of this last remnant of intolerance, by admitting all classes of his Majesty's faithful subjects to the rights, immunities, and advantages of the Constitution under which they lived.
 Mr. W. Roche  would give his support to the Bill on principle, and also from personal feeling. He supported it on principle, because he thought that every British subject was entitled to equal rights and privileges; and he supported it from personal feeling because as a Roman Catholic he had long felt the injustice of his own exclusion from many civil rights, and he would not refuse to a fellow-subject that right which as such a subject he had at length obtained himself.
 Captain Pechell  cordially approved of the resolutions brought forward by the Committee. Great dissatisfaction had been created throughout the country by the system hitherto pursued in Railway Committees. He could bear witness to that point from his experience on the Brighton Railway Committee, on which he sat for fifty-four days.
 Sir James Graham  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had introduced various topics which were not at all connected with the question before the House. He was decidedly of opinion it was worth while to try the experiment proposed. The only doubt he entertained was whether forty Members would undertake the business; but he believed there would be no difficulty about that. The resolutions had been framed for the protection of public as well as private interests, and under these circumstances he hoped the House would agree to them.
 Sir Robert Inglis : At last, Sir, we are called upon to discuss this measure, and in a House which, if any Member chose to exercise his undoubted right, might easily be counted out—a House consisting, perhaps, of thirty-five Members (I will not press the objection, because after so long a postponement I wish to take the ques-
 866 a priori, 867 868 people." nation." 869 870 871
 Mr. A. Trevor  opposed the Bill, not as a member of the Church of England, or any particular sect, but as a member of the Church of Christ. He also objected to the discussion of a measure of such importance in so thin an attendance, as to be scarcely enough to constitute a House. It ought to have been reserved until every Member should have an opportunity of expressing his opinion on it. As many Members were elected since the Bill was last in the House, their constituents should first have an opportunity of stating their opinions on it.
 The Attorney-General , showed cause at great length, against the rule which his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, had obtained for granting a new trial in this case. He used these words on the present occasion in no metaphorical sense, for the fact was, that it was attempted in this instance to turn that House into a court of justice; he (the Attorney-General) rather doubted whether it would not be a court of injustice, if it took upon itself to adjudicate such matters. The hon. and learned Gentleman entered into a history of the case. He concluded by saying, that there was no precedent whatever for the motion of the hon. Member for Bridport, and he hoped the House would not, by
 904
 Mr. Bagshaw  hoped, the hon. Member for Bridport would withdraw his motion. He had seen the papers and pedigree of one petitioner, Charles Troutbeck, and he was quite sure that he would be able to establish his claim in the courts of law.
 Lord Granville  Somerset wished the postponement of the Bill to another Session, as it was too important to be hastily passed at this late period of the Session.
 Mr. Mark  Philips wished to set himself
 905
 Colonel Sibthorp  had such strong objections to this Bill altogether, and particularly to the 5th Clause, which permitted the chief Commissioner to sit in that House, that he could not allow the Bill to pass through this stage without taking the sense of the House upon it.
 Dr. Lushington  called the attention of the Committee to the condition of those gentlemen who had filled the office of chaplain of the House in whose behalf the House had addressed the Crown, recommending them for some ecclesiastical preferment, and to which addresses favourable answers had been given. There were now three gentlemen in that situation. By the decision to which the House had come against sinecure church livings those gentlemen would be deprived of the reward which had first been held out to them, and on which they had every reason to calculate.
 912
 Lord J. Russell  was understood to say, that though there might be some hardship in the case of those gentlemen who had served as chaplains to the House, he did not think it was such as should justify the House in departing from the rule it had adopted with respect to sinecure church preferments. At the same time, the case of those gentlemen might be left to the favourable consideration of the House.
 Mr. Hume  opposed the proviso. He thought it would be acting against the principle on which these reforms proceeded, if they excepted these gentlemen from the operation of the Bill.
 Mr. A. Trevor  supported the proviso, and protested against the injustice of the Bill having a retrospective effect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the case a hard one. These gentlemen had obtained neither pecuniary compensation nor clerical preferment. Justice required that their services should be compensated, and he thought that the same remuneration should be given to each of them as was afforded to the chaplain of that House.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that justice required they should receive the same compensation as former chaplains. He decidedly concurred in the motion of the hon. Member.
 Lord Mahon  would take that opportunity of stating that although he entertained some objections to this Bill, yet the statement of the noble Lord (Palmerston) on a former evening was so clear and satisfactory, that he (Lord Mahon) did not intend to offer any opposition to the further progress of the Bill.
 Mr. Pryme  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move, as an amendment to the motion for the Speaker leaving the chair, that an humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying him to use his influence with the Greek government to induce it to acknowledge the two loans contracted by the Greek government previously to the accession of King Otho.
 Viscount Palmerston  could assure the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge, the his Majesty's Government were not indifferent to the situation in which the parties who had contracted these loans were placed, and they had already made representations to the Greek government on the subject. But he felt that it was necessary to draw a distinction between loans contracted under the sanction of the Government and those that were contracted by individuals on their own responsibility. If the assistance sought for by the hon. and learned Member were given in this instance, it could not be refused in the many other instances of a like nature. On these grounds he felt bound to oppose the motion, and he trusted that the hon. and learned Member would not press it to a division, as, if carried, it would be attended with great inconvenience.
 Lord John Russell , in moving that the Report on this Bill be received, said, that with respect to the subject of the appointment of the Revising Barristers under this Bill, he had consulted the Lord Chancellor, who had suggested to him the names of a certain number of barristers fully qualified for the office. Those names he (Lord John Russell) had given to the Attorney-General, and desired him to consult the hon. and learned Members for Huntingdon and Exeter (Sir F. Pollock and Sir William Follett) on the subject. Those two hon. and learned Gentlemen had considered the subject, and had proposed that a certain number of their suggestions should be placed on a list, amounting to not half, but in the proportion of three to eight, or rather of four to ten. That suggestion had been adopted, and another gentleman had likewise been nominated by the Lord Chancellor, whose politics were supposed to incline to the opinions of hon. Members opposite. The names they proposed to insert were the following:—They proposed the right hon. Thomas Erskine to be chief of this court, receiving under the Bill the same salary as the other Revising Barristers should receive. He had, therefore, to propose the following gentlemen: — The right hon. Thomas Erskine, chief Revising Barrister of England and Wales; and John Farquhar Frazer, Francis Newman Rogers, George Long, Frederick Robinson, Edward Harvey Maltby, William Mackworth Praed, Martin West, Woronzow Greig, Charles Rennell, and William John Alexander, Esqrs., to be the other Revising Barristers of England and Wales.
 Lord John Russell  thought it would not be fair to the petitioners to infer that they prayed that the reform of the Peers should be made by the House of Commons only.
 Lord John Russell  begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that he had adopted the present scheme at the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. If the House was of opinion that he had not acted fairly and impartially in the selection of the names of the Revising Barristers, undoubtedly they would be of opinion that the consideration of the Bill ought to be postponed; but had he thought that such a proposition would be made, he should have spared himself a very disagreeable task. With respect to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, he (Lord John Russell) thought that the third reading of the Bill would afford a sufficient opportunity for the discussion of the principle of the clause.
 Mr. Chisholm  would not oppose the principle of the Bill, but suggested a proviso that nothing in it should prevent the establishment of an assay-office in any town not within a certain distance of Edinburgh and Glasgow.
 Mr. Maclean  suggested to the noble Lord (Russell) the propriety of re-considering the appointment of Mr. Erskine. That gentleman was at present the Chief Judge of Appeal in Bankruptcy, and if the business of the Insolvent Courts were, as was proposed, to be thrown into the Court of Appeal, it would greatly interfere with Mr. Erskine's discharge of his duties as the chief of the court of the Revising Barristers. He entertained, also, very strong objections to this Bill on another and more important ground—namely, because it placed the appointment of the Revising Barristers entirely in the hands of the Ministers of the Crown. True, the Minister for the time being might consult other persons more competent to make a fair and impartial selection, but this was optional on his part, and virtually these appointments were entirely in the hands of the Government. He suggested that the Bill ought to be postponed till next Session in order that an opportunity might be afforded for its full consideration.
 Mr. Shaw  said, it was not probable that the House of Lords would receive such a petition, if sent to them, praying the same thing with respect to the House of Commons.
 Mr. Shaw  said, they prayed that that House might do so; now, that implied that the House itself should do so.
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that a petition calling on that House to effect a reform of the Lords was irregular, as it called upon the House to take upon itself all the functions of the three branches of the Legislature.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the matter should be left to buyer and seller. Buyers of plate should be allowed to purchase it of any fineness. Other countries had emancipated themselves from this absurd system. Legislative interference with manufactures and commerce tended only to clog and embarrass what it was meant to aid.
 Mr. Hume  protested against the Bill as contrary to the principle of free-trade. It was hard that silversmiths from Inverness and Aberdeen and other places should be compelled to send their plate to Edinburgh or Glasgow to be stamped.
 Mr. Hume  denied, that the words of the petition could be fairly said to bear the construction which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had put upon them. The prayer of the petitioners was, that the House would take such measures as would make the Lords responsible.
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from a political union in Glasgow, praying that the House might make such a reform in the House of Peers as might make them responsible. He fully concurred in the prayer of the petition, that such a reform as would subject the other House to responsibility ought to be adopted.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the words meant only that the House should originate such measures as would effect an organic change in the House of Peers, and make them responsible to the country, and he believed that unless some such change was made it would be impossible to go on.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the opposition which the other side of the House had made to this clause, which the noble Lord had framed upon their suggestion, ought to teach him not to be too good natured nor to give way too much to his political opponents. He objected, however, to giving 1,000 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, this was an exception to the principle to which he was as much attached as his hon. Friend. The public had no means of knowing what they purchased, and had a right to protection. He had not understood that the system in England was objected to.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  brought up a clause for the purpose of suspending the operation of a clause which had been introduced by a right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) on the third reading of the Spirit Licences (Ireland) Bill, prohibiting grocers from retailing spirits in Ireland. He gave no opinion as to the right or wrong of the clause, he only wished for Parliament to have an opportunity of reconsidering the question.
 Sir James Graham  objected to the Bill generally, and regretted that Mr. Erskine had thought it right to demand an additional salary for his duties in this court. It was, however, a matter of feeling with Mr. Erskine whether he would receive it or not. But if Mr. Erskine demanded it, he did not see how the Government could refuse to grant it.
 Sir James Graham  had no objection to these names being inserted in the Bill, provided it should be considered that they were inserted without prejudice to any future objections that might be made to them. Let the clause be printed, and the discussion might be taken on the next stage of the Bill.
 The Attorney-General  defended the grant of an additional 1,000 l. honorarium quiddam
 The Attorney-General  had felt, in common with many other hon. Members, that it was unconstitutional to vest the appointment of these barristers in the Crown, and it was to obviate that objection that it was proposed that the names of the barristers should be inserted in the Bill, The hon.
 909
 The Attorney-General  defended the necessity of the measure, which, he said, was called for by the trade as well as by the consumers in Scotland.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  hoped the House would do him the justice to believe that he would not make any statement of the correctness of which he was not fully convinced, and he fully acquitted the hon. Member opposite of stating any thing which he did not believe to be well founded. In fact they both spoke on this matter from the information of others, and not from their own knowledge. The only question between them now was, whether those
 906
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  thought, that if to the present Revising Barristers there were added three to sit as a Court of Appeal in London, the present system would be much better than that now proposed by his Majesty's Government. Under the present system, if they had a bad Revising Barrister one year, they had the chance of a good one the next, and thus the electors had a guarantee against any permanent injury being inflicted upon them. Under the system proposed by his Majesty's Governter, if they once got a bad Revising Barrister, they were burthened with him for life. He gave notice that, if this Bill were not very much amended, he should be compelled by a sense of duty to divide the House against it on the third reading.
 Sir James Graham , before the House went into a Committee of Supply, was desirous of asking a question of the Government. Towards the end of the last Session a Bill was brought in for the purpose of consolidating the offices of treasurer of the navy, paymaster of the army, and master of the ordnance. They had now arrived at a late period of the present Session, and on the last day for bringing forward the supplies, and he perceived by the army and navy estimates, that all provision for these offices was omitted. What he, therefore, wished to ask was, whether any estimate on the subject would be submitted to the
 927
 Mr. Francis Baring  was understood to say, that the arrangement to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, was one that required much consideration; and was not yet completed. He apprehended, however, that they would be ready in a few days and then they should be immediately laid before the House. With regard to the payment of the salaries of these officers there was no estimate submitted for the purpose in the Army, Navy, or Ordnance Estimates, because the Treasury thought it would be better that provision should be made for the charge in a separate estimate. It was the intention of the Treasury to submit such an estimate to Parliament, and they had hopes that they would have been able to consolidate the three offices in sufficient time to enable them to submit this Session as short an estimate as possible for the purpose. In consequence, however, of their not being able to finish the arrangements for the consolidation of the offices until the present late period, it was impossible for them to lay such an estimate before the House. The parties holding the situations had been paid their salaries up to the 5th of July, and it was true, that no vote of the House had been taken on the subject. It was conceived by the Treasury that it would be a great hardship on these parties if they should be kept out of their salaries through no fault of their own, and therefore an order had been issued for their payment out of the Consolidated Fund. The right hon. Baronet should have the correspondence with the Treasury on the subject laid before the House if he chose to move for it. He (Mr. F. Baring) was sure that the House would not consider that anything wrong had been done, though no formal vote of the House had been taken on the subject.
 Sir James Graham  said, that though he should not call for the correspondence with the Treasury on the subject, he must remark that when Parliament was sitting no money ought to have been issued except by a vote of that House. A supplementary estimate should have been brought forward in this case. He was sorry to find that these regulations would not be laid upon the table of the House in sufficient time to have a discussion on them this Session. He was the more sorry for it, as they affected
 928
 Colonel Thompson  thought, that the political importance of the subject had been a good deal lost sight of in the stress which was laid upon the question of the slave trade.
 Dr. Lushington  remarked, that so long as Texas remained a part of the Mexican empire, and as long as Great Britain did not acknowledge its independence, so long the Government of this country had a perfect right to enforce all the treaties at present binding on Mexico, against Texas. Supposing Texas to become independent, it would then be in the power of Great Britain to acknowledge its independence or not, at such a period and on such terms as to Great Britain might seem right and proper; and he apprehended that the Government of Great Britain would be slow, indeed, to recognise the independence of such a state, unless accompanied by a declaration that it would desist altogether from any encouragement or prosecution of the slave trade. If, on the other hand, the province of Texas should attach itself to the United States of North America, then, of course, it would immediately become subject to all the treaties which existed between this country and the Government of the United States for the prevention of the slave trade.
 Mr. Grove Price  was most anxious that this question should be brought on before the prorogation of Parliament. It was one of the highest importance to the people of England. He was taunted before with want of information on the affairs of Spain. He had, however, read her history most attentively, and diligently watched all the proceedings since 1812. No man felt more anxious that the elements of a free Government should be
 960 "Moriamur pro Rege nostro Maria Theresa." 961
 Mr. Charles Wood  was decidedly opposed to such a motion, as it was calculated to injure the service materially. The Government had undeniably the power to dismiss officers on full pay by calling in the aid of a court-martial. Officers on half-pay could not be compelled to undergo the latter ordeal, but the power of dismissal remained the same. He would not consent to parade a list of all the cases and causes of dismissal for the last forty-six years; but he had no hesitation in stating that, as far as he knew, no officer on half-pay was ever dismissed, except for conduct unbecoming a gentleman and a soldier. If the hon. and gallant Member thought that any particular individual in the list of half-pay officers were really aggrieved, let him bring the case before the House, and he (Mr. Wood) would undertake to give him every information the nature of the case admitted of.
 Mr. C. Wood  was much gratified in being enabled to inform the honourable and gallant Admiral and the House that circumstances had been brought to the knowledge of the Admiralty which satisfied them that the charges against Lieutenant Bryant were wholly without foundation, and consequently that his name would be restored to the list.
 Mr. Maclean : I understand from those who are more versed than myself in the business of this House, that the most suitable time to bring forward questions of this description is on the moving of the Order of the Day for going into Committee of Supply, the more especially so when the subject itself has a direct reference to the manner in which the funds of the country are expended. I am, too, considerably strengthened in my position by the speech we have just heard from the hon. Member for Berkshire, which certainly did not appear to be very closely connected with the money transactions of the country. I rest my vindication of the course I am taking partly, therefore, upon this ground, and I shall persevere in my observations, although I am forbidden by the rules of the House to make any specific motion upon the subject. We have expended a large sum of money for which, as far as I can understand, there is no guarantee whatever in the hands of the Government. We have supplied considerable stores of arms and ammunition to Spain, and I shall be glad to know
 947 l. l. 948 949 quasi quasi 950 951 reconnoissance en force reconnoissance en force per mare per terram, 952 953 954 955
 The Speaker : If the hon. Member is about to show any reason why I should not leave the Chair, it is well; but I wish it to be understood no motion can now be made.
 The Speaker : On the occasion of going into a Committee of Supply, the House is aware that generally more than usual latitude is allowed. But undoubtedly it is very important that the forms of the House which are so essential to the protection of the people of this country should not be so used otherwise than except for a real and solid purpose; and I really must put it to the consideration of the House whether the raising of a discussion under such circumstances be or be not an interference with the course of business.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  said, that after the statement made by the noble Lord, he should not feel it necessary to press his motion; but at the same time he must observe that unless some step were speedily taken to prevent it, there would be established in Texas a state, of which the governors would be man-retailers, and the main body of the population slaves.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice on this subject. He should endeavour to be as brief as the importance of the subject would permit him—a subject of the highest interest to the great cause of humanity, and of immense importance to our colonial possessions in the western world, and to a large body of our most respectable merchants at home, who had embarked 70,000,000 dollars in the Mexican dominions. What, let him ask, would be the consequence if the United States should be suffered to wrest the Texas from Mexico, and to take possession of it? Would not Cuba and the other Spanish possessions in the gulf of Mexico then soon fall a prey to the United States? Some weeks ago, in answer to a question from him (Mr. B. Hoy), as to whether the noble Lord had had any correspondence with the Mexican Government on the subject of the establishment of the slave-trade in the Texas, the noble Lord said, that if the Mexican Government should prevail in the present war in Texas, he had no doubt that the laws of Mexico against the slave-trade would be carried into effect, but that the case might be different if the other side should succeed. Now, he (Mr. B. Hoy) would contend, that whether the Texas should remain a province of Mexico, or should revolt and become a portion of the United States, it would be still equally bound by the treaty which it had entered into with this country, as a portion of the Mexican dominions, to prevent the carrying on of the slave-trade within its territory.
 929 Times 930 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 931
 Dr. Bowring  doubted whether the subsisting treaties between this country and the United States would be of sufficient force to put down the slave trade in Texas, supposing that province to attach itself to the federal union.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the hon. Member for Shaftesbury had not touched the cause of the evil. It was not that Cordova was treacherous—it was not that Carlism was feeble—it was, that the Spanish government had not the affections of the Spanish people. Let the
 958 959 juste milieu,
 Mr. Poulter  said, that the quadruple treaty was entered into for the attainment of great national interests; it contemplated the complete pacification of all the kingdoms of the Peninsula, and to have stopped at anything short of that, would not have been carrying it fairly into effect. As to the complaints that have been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman with regard to the Castor having had too large a complement of marines, really I never heard any thing so preposterous: I have heard complaints of too small complements, but never yet did I hear it gravely objected, that a ship of war had too many marines belonging to her. I hope the House will support the Government in acting up to the treaty, and in doing every thing they can, to establish that which is in truth the main principle on which it was founded,—namely securing to the Queens of Spain and Portugal the peaceful enjoyment of their constitutional rights. When the hon. and learned Gentleman asks whether we are at war with Don Carlos?—I ask in reply, How can we be at war with Don Carlos? Do we recognise any such sovereign in Europe as Don Carlos? Do we not rather look upon him as an invader of the kingdom of Spain? The hon. and learned Gentleman referred in strong terms to the proclamation lately issued by General Evans. I think it was quite right and perfectly constitutional in that officer to represent to any Englishmen in the service of Don Carlos, that they were violating the law of treason in serving that person. I am not for applying, in such cases, the strict penalties of treason; but I do say this, it is a principle well known and universally acknowledged,  "nemo potest exuere patriam;" 956 957
 Mr. Walter  said, that having recently troubled the House more than he liked, or was consistent with his general habits, he should not now have attempted to occupy its attention had it not been, that the matter which he had to communicate was of such importance, that the sooner it was made known before the Parliamentary recess the better. Soon after he last noticed the subject of female emigration to Australia, in which he had to contend alone with the Government and the hon. Gentlemen connected with the Emigration Committee, he received an intimation from an hon. Member of that House (the hon. Member for East Cumberland) that, had he been present, he could have corroborated his
 944
 Mr. Walter  thought the House would agree with him that the matter was of very urgent importance. He would detain the House as shortly as possible. He would first read an extract from the letter, which would be authenticated by the hon. Member for East Cumberland. The whole account of the settlement to which he chiefly alluded, Van Dieman's Land, was as melancholy as could be conceived, and quite the opposite, he was sorry to say, of what the Emigration Committee had incautiously put forth. At present he would only speak of that most affecting subject, female emigration. The writer, whose letter was dated Hobart-town, October 26, 1835, says—"Oh! my dear Sir, if you knew one-half the misery and
 945 946
 Mr. Walter  resumed.—At the time when he was interrupted, he was about to state, that he had communicated with the hon. Member for East Cumberland who had informed him that he could confirm the statements which he (Mr. Walter) had made. That hon. Gentleman had since been good enough to supply him with the information in question; and he (Mr. Walter) hoped, that if the Government would not listen to it in that House, it would still reach the ears of those poor creatures, who, out of that House, might become the victims of a system of imposition leading to their ruin—
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  did not believe that Cordova would be able to crush the Carlists. He believed that if General Evans had been at the head of 20,000 good English troops, well paid and provided, he would long ago have crushed them. But it was in Spain as it was in that House. He feared the Whigs were not very sincere in their love of liberty, and so "we poor Radicals," said the hon. Member, "when we propose any measures of real and substantial reform, are beaten by the united forces of Whigs and Tories. So in Spain, the forces of Don Carlos and the Queen combine in defeating any attempt to introduce a liberal constitution in Spain;" and he (Mr. Attwood) agreed with the hon. and learned Doctor, the Member for Kilmarnock, that Spain would never be tranquillised till a free constitution was set up upon the basis of representing the great mass of the people. As the country was now situated, it would not do for the Queen's Government to put down the Carlists altogether, they were necessary to keep the liberal party in check: and therefore the Queen's generals received secret orders not to crush them entirely. In such a state of things, with treachery in the camp, and intrigue at the Council Board, it was impossible that General Evans should succeed. The Governments of Spain were the bitterest enemies of liberty; and till liberty was established upon a secure foundation, Spain never would be pacified.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  expressed his belief that if the Americans should obtain possession of Texas, which had been truly described as forming one of the fairest parts of the world, a greater impulse would be given to the slave-trade than had been experienced for many years. If the British Government did not interfere to prevent the Texian territory from falling into the hands of American slave-holders, in all probability a greater traffic in slaves would be carried on during the next fifty years than had ever before existed. The war at present being waged in Texas, differed from any war which had ever been heard of. It was not a war for the extension of territory—It was not a war of aggression—it was not one undertaken for the advancement of national glory; it was a war which had for its sole object the obtaining of a market for slaves. He would not say, that the American Government connived at the proceedings which had taken place; but it was notorious that the Texians had been supplied with munitions of war of all sorts by the slave-holders of the United States. Without meaning to cast any censure upon the Government, he thought the House had a right to demand that the Secretary for Foreign Affairs do adopt strong measures to prevent the establishment of a new and more extensive market for the slave-trade than had ever before existed. The noble Lord ought immediately to open negotiations on this subject, not only with the Mexican, but with the United States Government, which latter had always professed to be anxious for the extinction of the slave-trade.
 Mr. Tooke  (interrupting the hon. Member) said, that he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair whether, on the question for leaving the Chair, it was open to any hon. Member to raise a discussion respecting a matter of which no notice had been given?
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose, pursuant to a notice long standing upon the order paper, to move for a return of "all officers, of whatever rank, who have been deprived of their half-pay without their consent, or the investigation of a court martial, from the year 1790 up to the present period, with the alleged reasons for such deprivation: also a return of any persons whose half-pay has been restored to them subsequently to such deprivation, with the alleged reason for such restoration." He was induced to make this motion because, as the House knew, the subject, having been frequently brought under its notice, several instances of great hardship, in which officers of long service had been deprived of their half-pay without any alleged cause, or at least without any proper inquiry.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that this fact showed the necessity of the parties being brought face to face before such extreme measures were resorted to.
 Sir E. Codrington  presented petitions from Lieutenant Rowland Milner; Mr. John Bee, gunner; and Lieutenant Bryant, all of the Royal Navy, complaining of their names having been erased from the Navy List, and deprived of their half-pay, and praying for inquiry. The last petitioner stated, that any charge that would subject him to such harsh treatment must be the result of conspiracy; and he only sought for an opportunity to establish his innocence.
 Sir Frederick Trench  objected to the
 943
 Sir G. Grey  said, that the occasion on which the hon. Member had chosen to make his statement on the question, namely, that the Speaker do leave the chair was so extremely inconvenient, that he should abstain from making a single observation on
 Mr. Ward  seconded the motion, and said that the deep interest which he had long taken in the question induced him to say a few words. From the time of his mission to Mexico, he had observed that it had been the fixed determination of the United States, by fair means or foul, to obtain possession of the province of Texas. Hon. Members might, perhaps, not be aware of the importance and value of such an acquisition. That territory contained upwards of 120,000,000 of acres of the finest land: it was watered by several navigable rivers, having their embouchures in the gulf of Mexico; and on its coast were to be found many harbours, superior to all others in the adjoining territories, and the possession of which would give them a complete command of that gulph. When Mexico became an independent state, her government agreed to abolish slavery in its dominions. He could answer for the fact that during his residence in that country the treaty was most rigidly enforced, and at present he would take upon himself to say that there were not more than twenty slaves in it. Ever since the erection of Mexico into an independent republic, the United States had
 932 933 934
 Sir Samuel Whalley  thought that the hon. and gallant Officer would have done better if he had confined his motion to specific cases, especially as the hon. Gentleman (the Secretary for the Admiralty) had shown no disposition to deny proper and constitutional inquiry. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would not press his motion.
 Viscount Palmerston : If at the beginning of the observations he should make upon what had fallen from the hon. Member (Mr. B. Hoy) opposite, and from his hon. Friend, the Member for St. Alban's (Mr. Ward), he stated that he did not feel himself at liberty to agree to the motion for an address to the Crown upon, the subject to which the hon. Gentleman's motion referred, he trusted that neither the hon. Member nor the House would imagine that that was any proof that he did not feel the full importance of the subject, or that the Government was not as much animated as he was by a sincere desire to put an end to those evils to which mainly the proposed address related. But he thought, and he trusted before he concluded, he should satisfy the House that such an address would be at the present moment in some respects unnecessary, and in other respects premature. The observations made by the hon. Mover, and those by his hon. Friend (Mr. Ward) appeared to divide themselves, properly speaking, into two different branches, one relating to the political part of the question, the other to the separate topic of the trade in slaves. With regard to the political branch of the subject, undoubtedly the possibility or the
 935 936 937 938 939 940 941
 Viscount Palmerston  began by observing, that the determination of the Spanish Car-lists, as described by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, certainly bore no resemblance to the course of debate which had been pursued that night; for whilst it was Stated by the hon. Member for Sandwich, that the Carlists were going direct to Valencia, he had wandered into the utmost diversity of topics, and touched not merely on those connected with Spain, but had travelled back into the affairs of Greece. We, continued the noble Lord, are like the Spanish Government, for in the words of the hon. Gentleman, "our treasures are empty, and we are anxious for supplies." My right hon. Friend near me (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) is like the state of Gallicia, as its: inhabitants have been represented by the hon. Gentleman, "quite steady, but ready to rise." If he were to consult his own convenience, and perhaps the wish of the House, he should have declined to enter into any discussion of the matters which had been introduced, but since he knew that the anxiety of the hon. and learned Gentleman who began this debate was not altogether without foundation, as his presence would be required elsewhere within a very short period, and as this was
 962 963 "per mare et terram." 964 965 966 967
 Lord John Russell , in moving that the Bill be read a third time, said that two of the gentlemen whose names had been inserted in the list of the Revising Barristers under the Bill had refused to accept the office. The gentlemen he alluded to were Mr. Rogers and Mr. Alexander, and he should have to propose as one of the amendments in the Bill after it was read a third time, that there be substituted in the place of the names of these gentlemen the names of Mr. Russell Gurney and Mr. Edward Winslow.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he had a clause to propose by way of rider, the object of which was, to carry into effect the provisions of the Act 8th George 4th, commonly called "Davies's Act." which enacted that counsel, agents, and all others employed by candidates at elections, should not have the right of voting, and that their votes at such elections should be invalid. It was well known, that that Act was evaded, and that, where the contest was a keen one, the votes of these disqualified persons were given at the hustings, the parties trusting to the chances attendant on a petition to the House. The present clause proposed to subject such parties for voting under such circumstances to a penalty not less than 10 l. l.
 The Attorney-General  said, that such a clause was certainly required to carry into effect the provisions of Colonel Davies's Act.
 The Earl of Lincoln  objected to the clause, as being irrelevant to the Bill, and as being brought forward without notice.
 The Earl of Lincoln  objected to the principle on which this Court of Revision was established. The nomination of the persons filling situations in it should not be placed in the hands of a political character like the Lord Chancellor. It was true, that on the present occasion the selection made by the noble Lord was, ac-
 993
 Lord John Russell  felt confident that the new system would ultimately be found to be a great improvement on the existing one. It would ensure greater uniformity and accuracy in the decisions, whilst, by reducing the number of barristers who decided, it increased their responsibility. He thought it better to relieve the judges of the duty of making such appointments, as under the present system, whenever political bias or partiality was imputed to a Revising Barrister, the character of the judge who appointed him was generally involved in the imputation. He trusted, that the principle which had been followed in this instance in making the selection, of not choosing from one side or the other, but of choosing indifferently from both, and, above all, of choosing men who were known not to be violent, but moderate in their political opinions, would, now that it had been so fully approved of by Parliament, constitute a guide for those on whom hereafter the duty of filling up these situations would devolve.
 Mr. Praed  proposed, in Clause 64, that after the words "with any land," there should be inserted, for the purpose of securing the exemption of existing rights of voting from the disfranchising effect of the Clause, the following words:—"And whose name shall not, previously to the passing of this Act, have been inserted upon the registry of voters for any city or borough by reason of such occupation."
 Mr. Warburton  opposed the amendment, the effect of which, would only be to render valid the decisions of some Revising Barristers, and to perpetuate what were called pigsty votes.
 Mr. Praed  defended the present system of Revising Barristers, and contended, that with the salaries now annexed to the situation, they should have got more experienced men than some of the juniors on the list. The fact was, they would have got them, but that the situation precluded them from following their profession at the same time. The hon. Member concluded by expressing his determination to take the sense of the House on the passing of the Bill.
 The Attorney-General  said, that he had not suggested a single name on the list, but believing, as he firmly did, that a better selection could not have been made,
 995
 Mr. Hamilton  said, he had a petition to present in reference to the Irish Malt Bill, and with the permission of the House he would take that opportunity of presenting it. It was from a most respectable and intelligent commercial body, well known in the House—the Chamber of Commerce of Dublin. It stated, that the manufacture and sale of malt are now regulated by similar laws in all parts of the kingdom. That by the proposed Malt Bill, the manufacture and trade in malt in Ireland is subjected to vexatious regulations and penal restrictions, from which the trade of England and Scotland is exempt. That by the Report of the Commissioners of Excise inquiry and the return of penalties it was established that the malt-duties were extensively evaded in England. That while it thus appeared that illicit malting is common to the three countries, the Bill confined the remedy to Ireland, subjecting that country to different laws, and also subjecting brewers and distillers there to vexatious regulations, to which brewers and distillers in England and Scotland were not liable. That the prosperity of the brewers and distillers of Ireland was of great public importance—and that their produce forms one of the exports of the country; and it prayed that the Bill might not pass into a law.
 Mr. Hamilton  was very sensible of the magnitude of the evil which the Bill before the House was intended to remedy, but he was very sensible of the extent to which an illicit malt trade had been carried on in some parts of Ireland, and of the injury which in consequence had been sustained by the honest dealer, and also by His Majesty's revenue: at the same time it appeared to him very objectionable indeed if, at so late a period of the Session, when all Members were looking so anxiously for its speedy termination, and when so many Irish Members had left town, a Bill containing such important alterations, affecting a most important branch of Irish trade, and affecting especially one of the most rising and flourishing of her exports—the beer and brewing business—should be carried through that House, and that, too, under circumstances in which, though a Representation had been stated to have been made to the Chancellor of the Exchequer by a portion of the trade, it was quite impossible that the opinion of the trade generally could be adequately collected with regard either to the efficiency of the Bill for its own purposes, or to the nature and effect of its provisions; that he, therefore, very earnestly suggested the expediency of its postponement for the present Session; that, as he wished to place the necessity of its postponement on that occasion simply upon the question of time, it was not his intention then to enter at all into the merits of the Bill, further than to state, that he saw many and great objections both to its principle and provisions, which he should be prepared to argue in the event of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer thinking fit to persevere with the measure. He had
 998
 Mr. Walker , though individually in favour of legislation on this subject, was decidedly opposed to many provisions of the Bill. Under all the circumstances he recommended the postponement till next Session.
 Mr. Harcourt  thought it his duty to submit to the consideration of the House the Clause of which he had formerly given notice. If the effect of the present Bill was to impose for the first time a tax of twenty-seven and a half per cent. on the Parliamentary grant to the descendants of the illustrious Duke of Marlborough, the measure would do that which would be utterly inconsistent with the intentions of the Legislature which made the grant, and with the proceedings of that House in analogous cases during the last twenty years. It might be a small matter in itself, but was a great injustice. He was of opinion, that to deduct from a grant to an individual so eminently distinguished for his services to his country as the great Duke of Marl-borough would be to deduct from the honour of the nation. The hon. Member referred to the services performed by the great Duke of Marlborough, in respect of which a pension of 5,000 l. 1006 l.
 Sir Robert Inglis  seconded the motion, on the grounds that the original grant was clearly intended to be free of all taxes and impositions whatsoever; and, because he did not think it would be doing justice to the memory of the great Duke of Marlborough to place the annuity enjoyed by his descendants on a different footing from the grants to the Duke of Wellington, Lord Nelson, Lord Amherst, and Lord Chatham.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the grant having been originally made by Parliament, the Government had no right whatever to take upon themselves the construction of the Act of Parliament, or to decide either in favour of or against the claim of the present Duke of Marlborough, to be paid the whole amount of the annuity without any deduction being made for
 1007
 Mr. Francis Baring  thought, there were strong reasons for supposing that there was no intention on the part of the framers of the Act of Anne to relieve the grant to the Duke of Marlborough from the payment of land-tax. It might be all very proper to redress injustice; but if injustice had been done in the present case, all he could say was, that the evil could not be remedied by a clause construing an Act of Parliament, but ought to be removed by a distinct Act on the subject. It had been said, that the omission of land-tax in the exemption was the result of accident; but this he did not believe, because he thought the evidence was all the other
 1008
 Sir T. Fremantle  was not prepared to contend that an additional grant should not be made in favour of the Duke of Marlborough's family, taking into consideration the altered value of money; but no case had been made out in support of the proposition submitted by the hon. Member, and he should certainly vote against it in its present shape.
 Mr. M. Attwood  thought, all pensions were or ought to be subject to the tax, and if some had hitherto escaped, it was time they were now taxed.
 Mr. Hume  opposed the clause. He certainly thought that when a pension had been granted it ought not to be reduced by any deductions such as those that had been referred to; but that was not now the question. He did not think there were any circumstances to justify them in giving an increased pension to the descendants of the Duke of Marlborough. He, therefore, would oppose the clause.
 Mr. Francis Baring  urged the hon. Member not to press his amendment. The sense of the House had already been taken on the question, and he would not be a party to any further opposition.
 Mr. Hume  complained that the House had been taken by surprise with respect to the clause. He should, therefore, support the amendment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the battle of Blenheim were as fresh in the memory of the House as the battle of Waterloo there would not be a word of objection to the proposed increase. He had felt bound to lean in favour of distinguished military services, and he gave the fullest credit at the same time to the Secretary of the Treasury for the having nobly and manfully vindicated the more economical view of the subject. He hoped the amendment would not be persevered in.
 Mr. Warburton : As the House had been taken by surprise, he should feel himself justified in moving adjournment after adjournment, until the question should be finally disposed of. With the view of closing the discussion on it for the present, he would move that the further debate be adjourned till to-morrow.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied that the House had been taken by surprise inasmuch as a notice on the subject had appeared on the votes since last May. He thought the better course for the hon. Member to adopt would be to take the sense of the House on the question when the Bill came on for the third reading.
 Mr. Robinson  did not see what objection could be made to duties, the payment of which had not been objected to by the person to whom the pension was originally granted.
 Mr. Wakley  wished to know if this clause was agreed to whether it was the intention of Government to pay the arrears of the pension for the time past, as well as to remit the duties for the future? If they were remitted for the future it was an admission that they had hitherto been unjustly received, and the non-payment of the arrears would be direct robbery. Either this was the view which should be taken of the case, or else the proposition was to give an additional pension of 800 l. 1011
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to remind the hon. Member for Finsbury that this clause was not brought in by Government. It would not have a retrospective effect, and consequently no arrears could accrue.
 Mr. Hume  said, as no intimation of the proposition was given to the House he should say they were taken by surprise in being called on to grant a new pension of 800 l.
 Lord J. Russell  said, it was a most unjust charge to make, that the House was taken by surprise. The case was not of that peculiar character that required particular notice to be given by the Government. To say that this was a new grant of 800 l.
 Mr. Hawes  congratulated the House on
 1013 l.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that it was intended to keep the Museum open during the months of May, June, July, and August, from nine in the morning until seven in the evening, and during the rest of the year at the usual hours. He believed a perfect catalogue would be ready before the end of the year, but the Commissioners feared they could not carry their plans into effect without some assistance from the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the Treasury would be always ready to assist the Commissioners, if they made out a proper case.
 Mr. Archdale  considered the establishment of a national system of education had been hitherto proposed and maintained as an experiment—that the experiment had proved a complete failure—and to ask for it now the support and protection of the Legislature, was to ask, that the public money should be largely applied for the gratification of the Roman Catholic priests, and the propagation of Popery in Ireland.
 1021
 Mr. Hamilton  said, if he understood the question rightly, he had no hesitation in answering it. He might vote for those Protestant Dissenters whose opinions did not appear to him wrong in essentials; for the others he could not, because he did think them wrong in essentials.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought the proposition a most extraordinary one. Because the hon. Member for Roscommon could not get all he wanted, he refused to take anything. Anxious as he was personally for the improvement of the Shannon, he would not ask Parliament to grant a single penny until the local proprietors had subscribed their quota. He had been charged with not bringing in a Bill upon the subject; he held the Bill in his hand, and intended to move for leave to bring it in the moment the House resumed.
 Lord Clements  was sorry his hon. Friend (Mr. French) proposed to strike out the sum requisite for keeping the works in repair, though he perfectly agreed with him in the justice of the remarks he had made. He objected to having the navigation of the river placed under the control of the Government, and he was confident, that the trade of the river, if left to private individuals, would pay all the expense of improving the navigation.
 Mr. French  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had distinctly pledged himself to bring forward a measure for the improvement of the broad waters of the Shannon during the present Session, in his reply to his motion to inquire into the tributaries. If the right hon. Gentleman was disposed to redeem his pledge, he was perfectly aware that no report from the Commissioners was required. There was no land to be valued, nor any damages to be estimated. He denied, that the right hon. Gentleman was either deeply or personally interested in the improvement of the Shannon. He had no connexion whatever with it, the right hon. Gentleman's property all lying below Limerick. The right hon. Gentleman had done a great deal for Limerick, where he was
 1026
 Mr. Hamilton  said, that an inquiry into the whole system of Maynooth College, and especially of the system of education pursued there, was, in his opinion, loudly and imperatively called for, and he regretted very much, that the hon. Baronet, who had given notice of a motion for such an inquiry, had not been able to follow it up. As an individual Member of this House, he felt bound to raise his voice against a grant of public money for the advancement of a religion, and for the promulgation of doctrines which, as a Protestant, he conscientiously believed to be erroneous. He fully concurred in the observations which fell from the hon. Member for Southwark on a recent occasion, that where one set of men differed from another in essential matters of religion, and were sincere and honest in that difference, and believed that it involved principles of great importance, whatever they might profess, it was impossible but that, believing those others to be wrong, they must be anxious not only to convince them of their error, but to prevent the promulgation of that error; and they ought not, therefore, in his opinion, to be parties to its advancement or extension. It surprised him that hon. Members on the other side of the House, especially those of the Roman Catholic persuasion, who were so ready to condemn the connexion of Church and State—to declare that they should consider their religion contaminated by such a connexion, and who, not satisfied with dealing with their own religion as they pleased, should be so forward in endeavouring to free the religion of others from that supposed contamination, by effecting its separation from the State. He confessed he was surprised that persons holding these opinions should consent to owe the educa-
 1023
 Captain Boldero  said, that this was the best of the whole eight and twenty grants. When the Roman Catholics were in the habit of taking money for education, they might the more readily take stipends for their clergy, and thus there would be an end to the influence of the crafty priest and the cunning agitator.
 Mr. Chisholm  said, the Government of the country was a Protestant Government, and, therefore, the Ministry was bound to support the Protestant Church and system of education. It was against popery that Protestants especially protested, and as long as he had the honour of a seat in that House he should never forget that essential principle of Protestantism.
 Colonel Perceval  said, he considered that the hon. and learned Sergeant had been rather more severe upon his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bandon, than the circumstances warranted. The hon. and learned Sergeant accused his hon. Friend of dealing too largely in assertion, and on the instant the learned Sergeant dealt more largely in assertion himself than had his hon. Friend near him. The hon. and learned Gentleman had asserted that the opposition to those schools emanated from his hon. Friend the Member for Bandon; but the fact was, that the Protestants of Ireland ceased to attend these schools because they were held in Roman Catholic chapels. He could state an instance of his own knowledge. He had named it before, and had no objection to do so again. The school to which he alluded was held in the chapel of Ballymoate, the parish in which he resided. He had himself visited the school, and he supposed it would not be denied that it was one of the rules of the Education Board that no religious books or catechism should be used. Now the
 1016
 Colonel Perceval  believed that they did not; but there were places in Ireland where the testimony of the Roman Catholic priest on this and other subjects was implicitly relied on.
 Colonel Perceval  denied that he had calumniated the Roman Catholics. He stated that the priest returned to a constable named Thompson the return of the Protestants in his (Colonel Perceval's) parish, and that return amounted only to one. Thompson returned the statement on oath.
 Colonel Perceval  observed, that he had repeatedly recorded by his vote his objection to the proposed grant; and he entertained as strong an objection to it at present as at any former period. His hon. Friend the Member for Durham, had given notice of a motion for next Session, when he intended to move for a Committee to inquire into the system of education pursued at Maynooth College. He hoped, therefore, his hon. Friends would not then insist upon a division; if they did, he should certainly feel it his duty to record his vote against the motion, but he trusted that under the circumstances they would not take the sense of the House.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, his hon. and learned Friend had complained of that very practice; he had complained that the schools had been made exclusively Roman Catholic.
 Mr. Ruthven  said, it was with extreme regret that he felt himself called upon to offer his most decided opposition to a Bill introduced under the sanction of his Majesty's Government, because be enter-
 999 1000 "I think Government have never turned their attention sufficiently to protect the fair trader, and to prevent fraud; that an immense fraud is going on at this moment I am well aware. I am in the habit of seeing immense quantities of malt both in the country and in London, much of which is purchased in the London market, which I know never can have paid the duty, or it could not have been sold at the price." "Is there in your opinion much evasion of the duty in England?—I can only say that at Ware we go justly to work; we work as closely as men can do; but malt frequently comes to market from Norfolk and Suffolk, and from the west of England, 5 s. d., s. 1001 s., s. "Mr. Guinness—Would you propose to restore the old permit system?—No; I conceive that the old permit system was injurious to the fair trader, and ineffective in its operation. "In what way?—There were, during the operation of the permit system, two prices for malt of the same quality; for the purchaser of a cargo of malt who would receive a portion of it without permit could get that portion at a reduced price." "Upon a review of the operation of the Irish acts, as compared with the system now prevailing, no conclusion can be drawn so favourable to the former as to warrant the re-enactment of a separate malt law for Ireland, connected, as such a step would be, with the complaints and inconveniences, which in a great measure led to the adoption of the present assimilated regulations. "Upon a careful consideration of the whole subject, it is conceived that a recurrence to the old system, such as existed in Ireland previously to the consolidation, would be very obnoxious, and give rise to serious and perhaps well-founded complaints; and that no more effectual means can be resorted to for checking the progress of illicit malting in Ireland than the measures now in operation, which, it is confidently anticipated, will shortly be the means of convincing the dishonest trader that fraud cannot be profitably practised—that detection is almost inevitable, and that great pe-
 1002 
 
 1833 £245,000 
 1834 272,000 l. l. l. l. l. 1003 "for the more effectually securing the duty on malt"
 Mr. French  wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the fact, that 50,000 l.
 Mr. Shaw  agreed with those hon. Friends who had preceded him, that at that advanced period of the Session, and in the then thin state of the House, it would be in vain to divide against the grant to the Board of National Education in Ireland. He could not, however, content himself without again recording his opinion against the system pursued by that Board, as one which was opposed to the conscientious feelings of the great majority of the Irish Protestants, and which he believed never could promote united education in that country. He could, if it were not unnecessary to trouble the House with them at that time, adduce innumerable instances in which the rules of the Board were violated in the schools in connexion with them. He did not mean to say, as seemed to be assumed by his noble Friend (Lord Clements), as the argument of those who agreed with him (Mr. Shaw), that the Board refused to listen to complaints on that subject. That was really not the question. The insuperable objection in his (Mr. Shaw's) mind, to the system was, that it formed a fundamental part of it that the Bible, in its simple and entire form, was excluded from the national schools, when alone they could be considered as such. If it was said, that extracts were allowed, his answer was, that that would not obviate the objection, even if those extracts were fairly made; but he was bound to add that they were not, in his opinion, fairly made, but such as might justly be termed garbled. He was as desirous as any one could be for the success of an united and harmonious system of education for the poor in Ireland; but he was persuaded that such a system, so far as regarded Protestants, never could be successful if based upon the anti-Protestant ground of the exclusion of the Word of God. For his part, he had no doubt that the plan of the Kildare-place society would before then have been generally adopted and successful throughout Ireland, but for the party and political motives which influenced the opposition it had met with. Of one thing
 1018
 Mr. Shaw  hoped his hon. Friend would not divide the House upon that grant. It was, at all events, in one respect unlike the grant proposed for National Education in Ireland—there was no disguise about it. He deprecated the system of Maynooth as conferring neither benefit on the country nor credit on the Roman Catholics themselves.
 1022
 Mr. Shaw  must insist, notwithstanding the observations of the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth) that he had properly termed the extracts made by the Education Board garbled, at least as compared with the authorised version of the Scriptures. He believed, that in nine cases out of ten when the authorised and Rhemish versions differed, the latter had been followed by the Commissioners. The noble Lord boasted of the Board containing able scholars and divines—that might be true—but would the noble Lord venture to assert that such a Board as that was to be regarded by the Protestant people of these countries as a tribunal competent to undertake the great and important work of a new translation of the Bible of the Church of England?
 Dr. Bowring  protested against any re-
 1015
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Cashel had made some personal allusion to him, and he therefore felt bound to offer a few observations in reply. If that hon. and learned Gentleman had been in his place on a former occasion, he would have heard him expose the erroneous nature of the returns which the Commissioners of Public Instruction had made to that House. He contended that the returns made by the Commissioners of public Instruction were not deserving of the credit which they too frequently received; and, in his opinion formed no safe ground for legislation. He should trouble the House with but one or two examples to show how little they were to be depended on. Upon a former occasion he stated that a parish in Kerry—the same arish in which the hon. and learned Gentleman who now represented Kilkenny resided—had been returned by the Commissioners as containing but forty-nine Protestant inhabitants, which was one under the number that, according to a Bill of which the House must have full recollection, would be required, to secure to a parish the benefit of Christian instruction by a minister of the Church of England. Now it happened that very shortly after those returns were in the hands of Members he was handed a letter by his friend, the Knight of Kerry, informing him, on the authority of the clergyman of that parish, that the number of members of the Church of England resident therein, amounted to fifty-six at the time the returns were made, and had since then been augmented to sixty-three. He had likewise called the attention of the House to the case of a parish of which the son of the Lord Chancellor of Ireland was the incumbent,
 1019
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, he could not give a silent vote upon the proposed grant. It was understood that there was to be another vote of 11,000 l. 1014 Laughter from the Ministerial Benches.
 Mr. Sergeant O'Loghlen  begged to ask the hon. Member, as he had placed his opposition on such grounds, whether he could consent to make a grant of money for Roman Catholic or for Protestant Dissenting places of worship?
 Mr. Dillon Browne  said, the grant was opposed solely to obtain an opportunity for calumniating, the Catholics.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  wished to say, that what he had charged some hon. Gentleman on the other side with was, having proclaimed to the Protestants of Ireland that the Government system of education was subversive of their faith. They complained that the Protestants were supplied with nothing but a mutilated version of the Scriptures, and they certainly did all they could to prevent Protestant children from attending the Schools.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  thought, the hon. and learned Member for Bandon might as well have said the Protestants of Ireland were 3,000,000 as 2,000,000. It would have been much more satisfactory if he had laid his finger on any particular parish, and proved the inaccuracy of the Commissioners' returns in respect to the number of Protestants. It was true that the schools were called "priests' schools," but only by those Protestants who had done everything to keep up party distinctions, and to defeat the efforts which had been made to render the system of education united and generally acceptable.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in accordance with the wishes of the Irish Members, so unanimously expressed, he would consent to defer the consideration of the question till that day three months.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, observed that the present mode of collecting the Malt-duty in Ireland was exceedingly defective, and required speedy and efficient amendment. Many applications had been made to him by persons connected with the trade, to postpone this Bill, but after mature consideration he had stated to them that he felt bound in duty to the public to persevere with it. If, however, it should appear that hon. Mem-
 997
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, that as the Irish Members had been appealed to by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he thought he might be permitted to make a few observations. He was perfectly aware, and he freely admitted, that the malt trade in Ireland at present was in a state highly injurious, if not positively destructive, to the interests of the fair dealer. He, however, felt compelled to solicit the Government not to press the measure, and to suspend any new legislation on the subject till next Session. It was his impression that the Bill, whilst it imposed penal enactments of a most offensive description, would not effect the object intended, and his chief objection to it was, that its application was limited to Ireland, and not extended to the other portion of the empire. If the enactments of the Bill would have the effect of suppressing the illicit manufacture of malt in Ireland, what would be the inevitable result? Why it would be offering a premium for the illicit manufacture and importation of malt from other parts of the empire into Ireland, and thus impose on the honest dealer annoying and vexatious regulations, without giving him any adequate protection. He (Mr. S. C.) was decidedly of opinion that no measure could be safe or useful which was not universal in its operation? and as there was not time to digest the details of the measure, he preferred its postponement. He was quite satisfied that all attempts at putting an end to illicit traffic would fail, except by reducing the duty. He called on them to remember that all the arbitrary enactments which were passed, and which the police, and even the army, were for a long time employed in the enforcement of, were ineffectual with respect to illict distillation, till the duty was reduced—and what was more important, that reduction was followed by an actual increase of the revenue. But he objected to this Bill on higher and more
 1004 1005
 Lord Clements  was sure, that if the Education Board had been made acquainted with the case, they would have interfered.
 Mr. A. Trevor  begged his right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Dublin, to believe, that he entertained the highest respect for any recommendation coming from him, but he had presumed his right hon. Friend knew him well enough to expect, that when once he took a thing into his head he was not to be moved from his purpose.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, he for one certainly should take the sense of the House on the question. It was true, that he had given notice of the motion which his hon. and gallant Friend had just mentioned, but that should not restrain him from taking any opportunity of supporting the rights of the Protestants of Ireland—rights which he thought were much neglected.
 Viscount Morpeth  wished to know if the Commissioners adopted the particular return alluded to by the hon. and gallant Member.
 Viscount Morpeth  observed, in reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last, that he had thought the testimony already laid before the House on the subject of the parish in Kerry would have been considered quite sufficient: he thought before, as he did now, that the difference between forty-nine and fifty-six being only seven, had been sufficiently accounted for, and he should therefore not trouble the House with any remarks on the subject. As
 1020
 Captain Gordon  contended, that Lieutenant Hill had been very hardly used, and that there was no good ground for superseding him.
 Mr. Hume  wished, before this motion was carried, to submit to the noble Lord whether, at the close of the session, it was expedient to proceed with this Bill, and whether it was possible that due consideration could be given to it? No man was more anxious for reform in the Church than he was; and, he believed, he was the first to introduce the subject in Parliament, but when he did so, and when he advocated the appointment of a Commission, he had expected a comprehensive reform, and a Report from the Commissioners which would have embraced every branch of the Church Establishment. He submitted to the noble Lord, that as he had agreed to put off other Bills relating to the Church, it would be well if he would not now proceed with the present measure, but allow it to lie over till the next session along with the Dean and Chapter Bill. In the mean time, as the Commissioners had taken upon themselves to new-model the dioceses of the Bishops, they could also take upon themselves to new-model the various livings in the country, and take into their consideration whether there were not more livings than ought to exist, whether some livings were not larger than they ought to be, whether others might not be extended, and whether different duties and incomes might not be affixed to them. By that means the noble Lord would be able to fulfil the wishes of the best friends of the Church, and an end would be put to the eternal trouble which the Church now gave to the Legislature of the country; for what with the Church in Ireland and the Church in England the business of the nation was absolutely stopped, and it almost required a Parliament of itself to deal with those two subjects. And, after all, what was the result of their exertions? No sooner did this House pass any measure than it was thrown out elsewhere, so that much valuable time had been lost. He could not allow this Bill to go on, which would give a sanction to pluralities which were now illegal, and which was a partial and garbled measure as regarded reform, without entering his protest against it.
 1046
 Mr. Wilks  said, that it was doubtful whether he should have originated any observations on this matter; but as they had been introduced, he confessed he should be a traitor to himself and to the vast proportion of the community with whose feelings he was acquainted with respect to this subject, if he did not join with his hon. Friend in entreating the noble Lord not to press forward this measure during the present session.
 Lord John Russell  must say, that he had hardly expected to have such a request made to him as had been made by the hon. Gentlemen who had just spoken. At the time the Bill came down from the House of Lords, he over and over again declared that it was his wish to press this measure forward. But it was urged upon him more than once, that there were other Bills of great importance waiting to be sent up to the House of Lords; he had, therefore, repeatedly deferred this Bill, not because he was not willing to bring it forward, but because other Bills required to be advanced in their several stages. Having so deferred it, however, that was now made an argument against his proceeding any further with it this Session. Certainly it was a reason why on future occasions he should not consent to any delay that might be required of him. He could not agree in the view taken of this Bill by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and therefore it was not likely that he should come to the same conclusion as to the course to be pursued respecting it. It had been said that this measure ought to have been as great in its leading enactments, as the Reform Bill, or
 1047 1048
 Mr. Hutt  could not consent to the proposition of the noble Lord. He did not think that the noble Lord was making a discreet use of his unquestionable right of pressing forward this Bill under the circumstances now existing. He did not mean to say, that the Bill would not effect any good, but the most important part of the subject which the Bill ought to embrace, seemed to be passed by entirely. It was true the evil of pluralities would in some degree be remedied, but there was no regulation whatever made with regard to the incomes of the clergy. It would still be possible for the golden prebend of Durham, and the rectory of Stanhope, to be enjoyed by the same person at the same time; and he would ask the Noble Lord whether that was right, or whether it gave him satisfaction?
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  was of opinion that if it were not disrespectful to the House of Lords, it would be in many respects advantageous, if this measure were postponed till the next Session.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it was the duty of the House to carry forward the Bill. That would indeed be of doubtful propriety, if passing this measure would throw an insurmountable obstacle in the way of passing a better measure next year. He should not in that case, be in favour of passing the Bill; but ten miles was some limitation, and he thought, therefore, they ought to go into a Committee
 Colonel Sibthorp  would not oppose going into a Committee, but would bring forward an amendment in that stage.
 Mr. Warburton  objected to proceeding with the Bill. It gave the Bishops power to alter the ecclesiastical boundaries of parishes, and might affect the question of Church-Rates; at such a late period of the Session he was for postponing the Bill.
 Mr. Lennard  said, if his objections to the Bill were only in detail he should be ready to go into Committee. But after having carefully examined it he must say his objections were to its principle. The Bill sanctioned pluralities and. non-resi-
 1049 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 1050 Hon. Member:
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the hon. Member for Maldon must be friendly to pluralities, as he was so anxious to preserve them.
 Mr. Wakley  opposed the Bill. To pass it would only put off the remedy for the abuses in the Church, and there would continue to be, as now, hundreds of starving curates, and sons of clergymen with more livings than they could look after. It was a Bishop's Bill, and he hoped, unless it was to be admitted that the House of Commons was to obey the Bishops, that his hon. Friend would persevere in opposing the Bill.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, he should have been better satisfied had this measure originated in a convocation of the clergy, instead of commission composed partly of Bishops. He was aware that there were high authorities against the revival of convocations. But he confessed his opinion was in their favour, and he might observe that they were preserved in the Church of Scotland—a Church presenting one of the best models of Ecclesiastical polity ever displayed. However, he should support the Bill, as it was generally beneficial so far as it went. It brought the Church of England under the  surveillance
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose to express his dissent from the doctrine of the hon. Member for Evesham as to a measure of Church Reform, emanating from a convocation of the English Clergy. With regard to the Bill itself, his opinions were well-known upon this subject: but the House having sanctioned the principle of the Bill, he should not object to its going into Committee.
 Mr. Ewart  considered, that this measure if passed would not be the beginning but the  finale demi
 Mr. Hume  was bound to take that opportunity of stating, that as the noble Lord would not agree to any reasonable proposition, he felt bound to express his disapproval of the course his Majesty's Government had taken. It was highly objectionable for the House to lend itself to a Bill like that, which was an abortion of reform. If the noble Lord would alter the second and third clauses, by enacting that no person should hold more than one dignity or one benefice, if he would be revenged on the Lords in this way, he (Mr. Hume) would go into Committee and assist in passing the Bill. Let them resolve that pluralities from henceforth should be at an end, and they had ample means for the maintenance of every existing clergyman. He objected to proceeding with this Bill, because the Church Revenue Bill—an excellent one in itself—had been stopped by some unseen agency They could not hope for one consistent plan unless they had an opportunity of considering all the four Bills relating to the Church at one and the same time. Why did not the Church Discipline Bill go on? Had any Bishop put a spoke in the wheel? He concluded by moving that the Bill be taken into consideration on that day three months, for the purpose of getting rid of it for the Session.
 Mr. Lennard  supported the amendment on the ground that the Bill allowed pluralities without providing the means of ultimately getting rid of them. He strongly objected to the measure, as being calculated to postpone all reform.
 Lord John Russell , in answer to the last observation of his hon. Friend, con tended that by throwing out this Bill it would be delaying reform in the Church, as it would continue for a longer time the present system of pluralities. His hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, complained that they had not proceeded with the Bill for the augmentation of the value of small benefices. He (Lord J. Russell) was anxious to carry that Bill, but had not persisted in moving its progress in consequence of the opposition he met with in the House, and in the face of which he could hardly hope to carry it. Those who originated that opposition now came forward and blamed him for not persisting in carrying that measure. If he had had no other opposition to meet with on that Bill than that of the deans and chapters, he certainly should not have postponed the Bill. He thought it quite right to adopt measures to get rid of pluralities and to enforce residence, and also that some means should be adopted for the augmentation of the value of small livings, and had had hopes that that object would have been effected by the Bill he had introduced during the present Session. If, however, this measure before the House passed, he trusted, that before next year, by the changes that would be effected, they would be the better enabled to carry into operation means for the attainment of the latter object. He, however, begged to repeat that it was not his fault that the measure alluded to by his hon. Friend had not passed into a law, but he had postponed it in consequence of the opposition made to it in that House. He hoped and trusted that the measure that would be brought forward on the subject next. Session would be considered as an excellent Bill.
 Mr. Aglionby  protested against the Bills respecting the Church being proceeded with during the present Session.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  quite concurred in the propriety of postponing this Bill until the next Session.
 Lord John Russell  could not support the amendment.
 Mr. Harvey  asked if it were the intention of the Government to give to the country a real, whole some, intelligent system of Church Reform? Here they were in the middle of August, when many were looking forward to the 1st of September, with a measure before them containing provisions for maintaining high livings in
 1054
 Lord John Russell  said, there had been a great variety of plans proposed to-night, and no two exactly similar. The hon. Member for Southwark had his plan; the hon. Member thought that the only plan which could give satisfaction to this country was one to take away the 3,000,000 l., l. l.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  understood that all vested interests were to be held sacred. There was nothing so new in the proposal. Mr. Pitt's plan was, that the income of the Church should be paid into the Exchequer, and that the amounts of the livings should be thence doled out to the clergy.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that Ministers ought to abandon the measure for this Session. Instead of effecting reform it would be an effectual barrier to reform; it would retard reform for many years.
 Mr. Hume  then proposed, as an amendment, that after the passing of this Act no individual holding one or more benefices should accept a dignity or office in a cathedral; and that no person holding one or
 1055
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  had another proposition to make; it was, that the Chairman report progress. He was sure the noble Lord must feel the impossibility of passing this Bill during the present Session. They were now discussing this measure for four hours, and they had only passed one clause. If they were to proceed, every other clause would occupy as much time, and they would be sitting until November. There was the Dissenters' Marriage Bill. They ought to recollect that they had done nothing for the Dissenters this Session. Now, before they took up the Dissenters' Bill, they ought to look after their own Bill. There were the Registration and the Marriages Bills, and they ought to proceed with them.
 Lord John Russell  hoped they were making progress with the Bill. He did not propose to proceed with the Bills referred to by the hon. Member for Fins-bury that night. He thought they should be taken up at an early hour in the evening, and he proposed to go into the consideration of them on Thursday.
 Mr. Goulburn  considered, that this measure, unless it had a general effect with respect to all those entertaining conscientious scruples to the present form of the oath, had better be withdrawn.
 Lord Morpeth  could state to the House, that it was the intention of the noble Duke, whose name had been introduced in the last debate on the subject of Irish tithes, to hold himself answerable for his share of the loan, no matter what measure was passed upon the subject.
 Captain Boldero  rose to call the attention of the House to the case of Lieutenant Hill of the navy, who was superseded from his command of the Alban steamer without any inquiry as to the charge on which his removal was grounded. The hon. and gallant Officer here detailed the circumstances of the case, which were substantially to this effect:—Lieutenant Hill, who was in command of the Alban at Malta, was ordered to proceed to England in that vessel with dispatches. While getting his steam up, the flag-lieutenant on the station came alongside, and told lieutenant Hill to make all haste in getting his vessel out, as he was already an hour behind his time. Soon after this,
 1035 1036
 Captain Boldero  said, that the worst construction which could be put upon the conduct of Lieutenant Hill was, that he had disobeyed an unlawful order. He was not bound to take an order from a civilia in contravention of the order given to him by the flag-lieutenant, his superior officer. He would not divide the House on the motion. He was willing to leave the matter to the consideration of the proper department.
 Lord John Russell  said, the time had arrived when it became his duty to state to the House the course which it was his intention to recommend, with reference to the amendments under consideration. The Bill for amending the Municipal Corporations Act, had been brought in by his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General. It was a measure of very great importance. After having undergone much discussion in that House, it was sent to the House of
 1038 1039 1040
 Lord J. Russell  would not enter into the merits of this case, but he must say, that it was not one into which the House of Commons could well enter. Cases like the present belonged more to the jurisdiction of the commanding officer on the station, or to the Admiralty; but it appeared to him that the House of Commons was a very incompetent tribunal to decide upon it, and it was only a waste of the time of the House to bring on such questions on an order of the day.
 Lord John Russell , in answer to a question from Mr. Goulburn as to the course which it was intended to take with this Bill, said that these two amendments that had been disagreed to—namely, that relating to the choice of mayor and aldermen, and that relating to the appointment of charitable trustees—were the only material points of difference between the House of Lords and this House. The former of these amendments was not of such importance as the other, and he was therefore not disposed for the sake of this amendment to risk the loss of the Bill altogether, but the rejection of the other amendment he must adhere to. He should therefore feel it his duty, after disagreeing to these amendments, to ask a free conference with the House of Lords, for the purpose of stating the reasons that had induced them to disagree to those amendments, and to state the reasons why they should rather incur the loss of the Bill than agree to this latter amendment. They would by this means have an opportunity of seeing whether the House of Lords would insist on these amendments. He would therefore move, that a message be sent to the House of Lords on Thursday next to request them to appoint a free
 1045
 Colonel Sibthorp  defended the conduct of the House of Lords. The hon. Member for Middlesex, when he complained of the rejection of several Bills, had omitted to state the most material circumstance. A perfect chaos of ill-digested matter, without order, without arrangement—a kind of omnium-gatherum in short, was submitted to their consideration, and under these circumstances the House of Lords could not be blamed if they rejected part of the crude and ill-considered mass brought before them and moulded the rest into a form better calculated to satisfy the just expectations of the country.
 Mr. Villiers  congratulated the noble Lord on the course he had determined to adopt with respect to the amendments in-
 1044
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, it was not his intention to go into the whole of the details. Lieutenant Hill had been superseded for disobedience of orders. He had received an order from the Admiral to wait for a passenger, who was in the Lazaretto, and he disobeyed that order. Two Captains, who had been directed to inquire into the circumstances of the case, reported that it was so extraordinary, that they could account for it only by supposing that he was labouring under temporary derangement. On this report the Admiral on the station superseded him. It was admitted afterwards by some of his own friends who saw him at the Admiralty, that he was labouring under a delusion. The Admiralty, after hearing what had been stated by the Admiral on the station, and the evidence taken before the Court of inquiry, were of opinion that Sir Josias Rowley was perfectly justified in the course he adopted.
 Mr. David Barclay , although he lamented the course which the House of Lords had taken, was not prepared to agree to the motion of the noble Secretary of State. Why not allow the Bill to pass with the amendments and bring in another next year?
 Mr. Charlton  remarked, that the whole burthen of the song of the hon. Member for Middlesex had turned on the word "anti-Reformers." The hon. Gentleman had charged that side of the House with being anti-Reformers. He denied the charge; they were as anxious for Reform as the hon. Member could be, but they would not consent, under pretence of reforming the House of Lords, as the hon. Member wished to destroy the Constitution. The hon. Member had referred to what had taken place in Coventry, and had asserted that large sums were distributed by the trustees among persons of a certain political creed. With what propriety could the hon. Member make this charge? The hon. Member said, that he had heard it; but there was not a title of evidence before the House to support him. The hon. Member, when he preferred such a charge, should at least bring forward his evidence, to show that there was some foundation for it. Supposing the continuance in office of the former trustees for one year longer to be an evil, the question was, whether it would not be better to permit this, than in the words of the noble Lord, to permit all the funds of the charitable trusts throughout the kingdom to be in abeyance, or to make use of the still stronger words of the Lord Chancellor, to leave the whole of the charitable property in the country un administered. This would be the necessary consequence of the course which the noble Lord had taken. No power was vested in the Lord Chancellor either to receive or to distribute, and if power was given to appoint trustees, they could only be appointed after litigation on litigation. The present state of the charitable trusts in the borough of Ludlow amply bore him out in asserting this opinion.
 Mr. Baines , in moving the third reading of this Bill, observed, that the object of it was to exempt Quakers and Moravians from taking the oath of office under the Municipal Corporations Act. The reason why he did not include the Jews in the provisions of this measure was, because the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had already introduced a Bill for the relief of the Jewish Disabilities.
 Mr. Aglionby  was most unwilling to allow the exemption of the Jews from taking the oath in question to depend upon the passing of the measure which was brought forward for the relief of that large and respectable class of the community from the general disabilities under which they laboured.
 Mr. Labouchere  defended the course pursued towards the petitioner, who had no just grounds of complaint. The Report, which had been laid on the table from the Post-office Commission, disclosed an organised system of plunder, which required the most exemplary punishment of the offending parties. When the Sub-commissioners commenced their investigation at Holyhead, they required the attendance of Mr. Johnstone, who filled the office of resident engineer, and who had a large quantity of public stores in his charge. After his first examination, other individuals were called, whose statements were so completely at variance with his, that they had him recalled, with a view to enable him to explain and to reconcile some discrepancies in his accounts, instead of which Mr. Johnstone thought proper to refuse giving any information on these points, and they, therefore, felt it their duty to report. that circumstance to the Commissioners in London, and Mr. Johnstone was ordered to be suspended. In the meantime the examination proceeded, and the Sub-commissioners found such a ground of malversation against Mr. Johnstone and the Storekeeper-general, that they deemed it advisable to have an Admiralty agent sent down, and he came to the conclusion, that there was fraud in the conduct of Johnstone, and he was again called on to explain and reconcile the differences, which not being able to do, he was dismissed altogether from the public service. Although the Post-office agreed in the proceedings of the Sub-commissioners, yet so anxious were they to do that which was right, that they directed two gentlemen to look into the whole matter, and to ascertain whether these things could be the result of negligence or fraud; and, after the most searching inquiry, they came to the conclusion, that there was both fraud and negligence in
 1032
 Mr. Morrison  also supported the proposition of the noble Lord, and pointed out the inconveniences which would arise in the borough of Ipswich in case of the Lords' amendments being agreed to.
 Dr. Bowring  said, that the Swiss Government had in confidence stated to the refugees, especially the Italian refugees, that it was obliged to expel them from its territory. Now, against them there had been no accusation, and the Act was manifestly unjust.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, respecting a matter that had excited considerable interest in Switzerland as well as upon the continent generally. He alluded to the attempt which had been made to coerce the Government of Switzerland to violate the Laws of hospitality, and to drive from its territory those who had taken refuge there. The French ambassador had presented a note to the Confederation at Berne, requiring them to dismiss from their territory certain persons who had hitherto received protection there; and it was stated in the public papers, that our ambassador at Berne had joined in that requisition. He confidently trusted, that the name of England had not been employed in this transaction. He could not, for his part, believe that England was concerned in this attempt to expel unfortunate political exiles from Switzerland; and he wished, therefore, to know from the noble Lord, how far the English Government had sanctioned the introduction of the name of England in this matter?
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether he understood the noble Lord to intimate that such advice had been given by His Majesty's Ministers. He understood the noble Lord to slate distinctly, that the English Government had not joined with the Government of France in the request made to the Confederation. He hoped that, the policy of the British Government would never be founded upon that of the French government, which was at present outraging all the principles of law and justice, and trampling under foot the rights of its subjects.
 Mr. Hume  had been acquainted with Lieutenant Hill for nine years, and adverted to the admission which he considered had been made, that the treatment of Lieutenant Hill was contrary to the usual rules of the service. If he had disregarded any order it was one which he was not bound to obey; and if the Admiral had had any reason to complain of Lieutenant Hill, he ought to have brought him to a Court-martial. It was absurd to contend that he was mad, when he was allowed to take his sword and pistols with him when he was sent to the
 1037
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise that the hon Gentleman, who admitted the existence of the abuses in question, nevertheless thought there would be no harm in continuing those abuses for another year. He (Mr. Hume) had been informed only yesterday that at Coventry the trustees of the charitable funds had given 4 l. 1042 1043
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the exact sum which it was proposed to raise by this Bill should be stated.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that if the hon. Member for Middlesex looked into the Bill he would find, that it contained the precise sum which he supposed was omitted. He acknowledged that he had made provision for these claims before it was necessary that they should be met, but he did not feel any regret in having done so, as, if he had not taken that course, the delay
 1056
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the measure was intended to provide for the sum which had remained, without being raised by the former Bill. He had explained, on a former occasion, the nature of this measure; and he would now only observe, that it was not intended to raise anything more than the twenty millions which had been voted.
 Admiral Adam  said, that Lieutenant Hill had been treated with great kindness in the whole of this affair. He had disobeyed an order of the Admiral, for which disobedience he might have been dismissed the service, but he was allowed to go on half-pay.
 The Attorney-General  believed, that the amendment made in the House of Lords had been so made, not because that House approved of the measure which had been introduced by the hon. Member for Northampton, but because their Lordships had been influenced by the opinions of Members of the old corrupt corporations. The clause which had been introduced by the House of Lords was, as his noble Friend
 1041
 Sir R. H. Inglis  contended, that the time of the House ought not to be occupied with matters like the present, which came more properly within the jurisdiction of other tribunals.
 Mr. Hutt  seconded the motion, and said, that Lieutenant Hill was one of his constituents, and he believed that a more honourable man, or a more excellent officer, did not exist. He considered that he had been treated most unjustly, and the charge of disobedience had been aggravated by the imputation that he was labouring under a derangement of intellect.
 Mr. Hutt  wished to have some explanation as to the precise object of it.
 Viscount Palmerston  begged to state, in reply, that the English Government had taken no official step whatever on the subject, that no similar note had been presented by the English Minister to the Confederation, that he had no instructions to take such a step, and that in point of fact, he could not have taken it. With regard to the private advice that might have been given, he (Lord Palmerston) had indicated the tendency of it.
 Viscount Palmerston , in answer to the question of his hon. Friend, had no hesitation in saying, that the English Government had not been consulted as to the note or notes which had been referred to the Swiss Confederation, and that, in point of fact, neither the English Government nor the English Minister in Switzerland had been any party to such application. That being a matter of fact, he thought it right to state it. At the same time, he should not perform his duty if he contented himself with simply giving such an answer, because inferences might be drawn from it one way or the other inconsistent with the real opinions of the Government. In the first
 1033 1034
 Lord Sandon  thought, that the case had never been properly investigated.
 Viscount Sandon  presented a Petition from Mr. Johnstone, who had filled the office of engineer at the Holyhead Post-office station, and who had been dismissed from it by the Post-office authorities. The petitioner prayed for a proper inquiry into his case, and complained that he had been dismissed without due investigation. The noble Lord said, that the petitioner had been dismissed on the representation of the agent on the station, Captain Goddard,
 1031
 Viscount Stormont  denied, that the House of Lords had thrown out the clause in the Bill to which the noble Lord had been principally referring, on the ground of the illness of a noble and learned Lord, and the expectation that that noble and learned Lord might in another year be prepared with a general measure on the subject. They threw it out because they thought, that, under its operation, the administration of charitable trusts in a borough would be influenced by party considerations. He was himself most anxious to put an end to the abuses which no doubt existed in the administration of the trusts in question; but he believed that the House of Lords were satisfied that such an object would have been obtained by the Bill which had been introduced by the hon. Member for Northampton.
 Mr. Francis Baring  said, that the principle of the grant had been approved of by the House after a full discussion last year. The proposal of the Committee was, that the whole
of these expenses should be paid by the public; but to that the Government objected, as it would have no control over the expenditure. The Government then proposed, that one-half should be paid by the public, and one-half by the county. In that way the Government possessed a check to a certain degree over the expenditure. All the payments were regularly checked at the Treasury before they were made, and the present vote was only half that of last year.
 Mr. F. Baring  was not prepared to propose any specific vote for that purpose. He agreed, however, that those clerks were entitled to a fair remuneration for their services. There was a balance of 3,000 l.
 The Earl of Lincoln  objected to the vote. He could not help feeling that the subject had been brought forward as a mere joke, and it was never supposed by the majority
 1075
 Mr. Goulburn  must dissent from the doctrine that because the House had once voted in favour of a particular measure they were bound to adhere to that opinion in Committee of Supply. He was opposed to the admission of ladies to their debates. The admission should be indiscriminate or
 1079
 Mr. Williams  observed, that it would be desirable to extend the advantages of this grant throughout the country. It would be particularly serviceable in the city of Coventry, where a school of design already existed, in connexion with the Mechanics' Institute.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that the Bank was not bound to receive more than 5 l.
 Alderman Thompson  remarked, that the Bank, being no more than any other person in the community bound to receive more
 1086
 The Chancellor of the Excequer  said that if the hour was earlier than it was, he had great hopes then, that even at the present advanced hour the House would bear with him for a moment, whilst he stated the course which he proposed they should adopt in reference to this Bill, as it was brought up to them amended by the House of Lords. In the first instance, before he proceeded further, he should move that the amendments be read by the Clerk at the table.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that he thought the right hon. Gentleman had taken unnecessary trouble in dwelling so largely as he had done, in making the preceding motion on the necessity of defending the privileges of the House. So perfectly did he agree with the right hon. Gentleman on that subject, that he had thought it best to abstain altogether from speaking in reference to the motion which had just been made and agreed to by the House, because he thought that, in the case of such a motion,
 1092
 Mr. Goulburn , though he quite entered into the views of the right hon. Gentleman, and was anxious not to throw unnecessary impediments in his way, was apprehensive that there might be some inconvenience in agreeing to his proposition. The House should be careful, after the course which it had just adopted in reference to the Bill sent up to it from the Lords, that in any new Bill which it might adopt and send up to the other House, on this subject, there should be no ground for objection on account of any alterations upon the clauses of the Bill already agreed to by the Lords, so as to avoid the possibility of any new amendments by the latter,
 1093
 Lord John Russell  did not see the utility of discussing the grant now, after the subject had been before repeatedly discussed and the principle approved of in very full Houses. He agreed with his noble Friend (Earl Spencer), who originally brought forward the grant, that though it was desirable that the whole expense of these prosecutions should be defrayed by the Government, yet, that as the Government would possess no control over the expenditure, it was better that the public should pay only one-half of the expense. He (Lord J. Russell) thought
 1058
 Mr. Hawes  took the opportunity of suggesting to the Chancellor of the Exchequer the propriety of having some alteration made in the present House of Commons during the recess, with a view to its better ventilation, and also with a view to the improvement of sound. At present the difficulty of hearing was so very great that Members sitting even immediately behind the Treasury benches were frequently unable to hear what was going on, more especially so when draughts of hot air, issuing from the ventilators in the floor of the House, passed along through the centre of it.
 Colonel Sibthorp  supported the proposition. He had seen ladies of the highest rank attending at courts of justice, and why should they not be allowed to be present in the House of Commons?
 Colonel Sibthorp  protested against the enormous and prodigal expenditure of public money lavished from time to time towards the repairs of Buckingham Palace. After all, it was doubtful whether
 1074
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that all this declamation was used for no other purpose than to make a tedious and unfounded tirade against the reporters. Of all men in the House, none had less reason to complain of the reporters than the hon. Member for Middlesex, for no man was more indebted to them. If they were to measure the reports of the Session by the inch rule, they would find at least a mile of reports headed by the name of that hon. Member. If the hon. Member had spoken more than that, and it had not been reported, it was because it was not worth recording.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, his noble Friend, the Member for Stroud, had stated, that as the House had come to a decision in favour of the question, he did not wish to see it agitated again on the same grounds and in the same manner. But his noble Friend was then perfectly aware, that in order to carry the recommendation of the House into effect, it would be necessary to submit a pecuniary proposition to the House in a Committee of Supply, and that the fate of the recommendation depended upon the result of that proposition. His noble Friend had given no pledge in favour of this plan; on the contrary, he still held the same opinions which he held before the House decided in its favour. He should certainly oppose the motion. He thought they ought not to be guided by what passed in the French Chamber of Deputies—a place which he had visited, and he must say, from the disorder which he there witnessed, he hoped this House would not imitate so bad an example.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  admitted, that it would be desirable to extend the influence of such institutions through the country, but grants of 40 l. l.
 Mr. Baines  observed, that there were many claimants called after time—claimants whose cases he thought deserved consideration. Their claims had not been sent in exactly on the day on which they ought to have been, and were therefore excluded from the benefit of proving their claims. Many persons who had not sent in their claims within the proper time were persons labouring under mental imbecility, produced, in some degree, by circumstances arising out of the poverty in which this transaction had placed them. If any thing could be done for those sufferers, it would be an act of substantial justice on the part of the nation, and he thought he was not asking for much in endeavouring to press on the Government the further consideration of those claims.
 Mr. Robinson  had had a great deal of conversation with the parties interested in these claims, and had never heard attributed to the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) any other motive for his refusal but his sense of public duty. There was no difference of opinion on this point. It was, however, his duty to say, that he was of opinion, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had come to an erroneous decision in having this matter referred to the law officers of the Crown on a technical ground. It was well known, that if a question were referred peculiarly on technical grounds, unless there was so strong a case made out as to leave no doubt, the law officers of the Crown would give an adverse opinion. The question ought never to have been referred to the law officers. It was a question of equity, and fell peculiarly within the province of the Executive Government to decide. When he remembered that many other claims had been equally pertinaciously resisted for a long time, but were afterwards acquiesced in, he might be excused for expressing a
 1059
 Mr. Robinson  thought, that the delay which had occurred in bringing this minute under the notice of the House, however some hon. Members might be disposed to complain of it, was in itself no sufficient reason for opposing the present vote.
 Mr. Robinson  thought, that this was too large a subject to be discussed now. There was no analogy between the business transacted in the Legislative Chambers of France and Belgium and that transacted in the House of Commons. If the House of Commons were to have authorised reports of its own, it must also have an authorised newspaper. Now, he would take upon himself to say, that no newspaper in that metropolis could report all the matter which occurred in that House with any hope of realising afterwards a profitable sale.
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, there could be no doubt that it was better to melt down this coin than to keep it lying idle in the
 1087
 Mr. G. Young  wished to know, whether the claimants for losses sustained by ships seized at sea had any chance, after the discussion in that House and the close division that followed, of having their claims granted by the Government?
 Mr. George F. Young  suggested, that Government should encourage steam communication with India by the Cape of Good Hope, which was always open, and which would be a much more certain route than that of the Euphrates, where the communication might at any time be interrupted by a barbarous tribe.
 Mr. Aglionby  suggested, that some additional remuneration should be given to those clerks of the House who had attended late and early for the purpose of taking the divisions.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought the only preposterous feature in the whole question was the kind of objection set up to the proposition. He was quite surprised that a Gentleman possessed of the extreme sensitiveness now exhibited by the right hon. President of the Board of Control had never lifted up his voice against the practice of admitting ladies to the lantern of the old House.
 Mr. Aglionby  said it was a great pity, then, that the right hon. Baronet's disgust had not been embodied in words upon some occasion.
 Mr. Warburton  believed that the purchases of the British Museum were not
 1085 elite
 Mr. Warburton  agreed with the gallant Colonel (Sibthorp), that a more scandalous job had never been perpetrated in the country than what had from the beginning been called the repairs of Buckingham Palace, although it was notorious not two bricks of the former building had been left together.
 Mr. Warburton  expressed his inclination to leave the matter to the discretion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer: recommending him at the same time, however, to read the evidence of Dr. Reid, and to act upon his suggestions. That gentleman had erected a public shed in Edinburgh, which on trial had proved eminently successful in conveying sound.
 The Speaker  said, the House having twice already decided in favour of the admission of ladies to the Strangers' Gallery, I have felt it a matter of great doubt whether or not I ought to give any opinion at all upon the question: but as I have now been specially called upon by the House to do so, I must say, that having well considered the subject, and looking at it as a question of great importance, with reference to the preservation of the order and decorum of our proceedings, and with reference to the influence which may be exerted by such a course on the deliberations of this House, and viewing it also as a question awaiting the confirmation of the Committee this night, I have come to a distinct and positive opinion, that the measure is undesirable. As it is the first time I have expressed my own individual opinion upon this subject, I beg to say, that I have now done so without reference to those whom it may please or displease, but solely in discharge of what I conceive to be my duty to the House. Considering the proposition in all its bearings, I must repeat my decided opinion, that it is most undesirable and inexpedient.
 Mr. Buckingham  had often heard it remarked out of doors, that the House of Commons was at least half a century behind the rest of the community, in soundness of understanding, and in accuracy of taste and feeling; and he could not help saying that the discussion on this subject gave to his mind a striking confirmation of the justice of the reproof; for he did not believe there was any other assembly in existence—he was quite sure there was no assembly in England—in which the discussion, as to whether ladies might be permitted to be present at their debates, would have been conducted in a spirit of so much contempt for the understandings of women, and so utter a disregard to their intellectual character, as had characterized this debate of the assembled Commons of Great Britain—and he believed that some of the speeches delivered on this occasion, if they were faithfully reported, or indeed if they were reported at all, would be read with the utmost surprise and indignation. To take the speech of the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control (Sir John Hobhouse), a Member of his Majesty's Government, and who, as a Cabinet Minister, was obliged to pay his necessary homage to the Queen;—to hear the expression of his horror and disgust (for those were the terms he used) at the bare idea of any English female taking any interest whatever in politics, one would imagine that the right hon. Baronet must revolt with a horror and disgust more inconceivable still at the country being governed, as probably it soon might be, by a female sovereign, in which case, of course, the right hon. Baronet would instantly resign. To hear the right hon. Baronet talk, one would think, first, that the women of England were at present wholly ignorant, and wholly indifferent to, the public affairs of their country; and next, that by the simple act of admitting some twenty or thirty ladies, chiefly, perhaps, the relatives of Members of that House, occasionally to hear the debates—the whole of the females would be converted into  mere 1080 1081 1082 1083
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that there was a previous question which ought to be determined, before any just decision could be come to as to the matter under discussion, and it was this:—The House should first get rid of the absurd fiction which still formed part of its standing orders, namely, that it was a breach of privilege to take any reports of its proceedings at all. When it had determined, by a rescinding of this absurd order, that it was right and proper that its debates should be reported, it might then apply itself without difficulty to the best method of doing this well. Now, in the debates which took place in this House, there were two objects constantly in view,—the one was, to make such statements of fact and argument as should justify the view taken of the subject, by the individual speaking, and prevail; if possible, upon those
 1069 1070 Hon. Member, 1071
 Mr. Buckingham  Said, that having had occasion to traverse personally, both these routes to India, namely, that by the Euphrates, and that by the Red Sea, and being, therefore, practically acquainted with each, he was prepared to say, that great advantages would be derived by England and by India, in establishing the practicability of a steam communication by both. The difficulties presented by the former were, no doubt, the most considerable; for, besides the length of the land journey from the coast of Syria to the Euphrates, by way of Aleppo and Bir, the opposition of all the local authorities along the entire line of the route, might
 1062 John Hobhouse 1063 1064 Morning Chronicle 1065
 Mr. Freshfield  said, so far from the matter being regarded as a joke, that the motion was adopted after the most deliberate consideration had been given to the subject. He was of opinion that it would be highly advantageous to admit well-informed and intelligent women to the discussions of that House. He thought that the knowledge that ladies were present would tend to prevent the recurrence of that want of courtesy which was occasionally manifested during discussions in that House. He could not help feeling that the opposition now made to the vote was rather unfair as the House had already come to a determination in favour of the motion. He begged the Committee to recollect that the proposition had twice been agreed to by the House, and although the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, on both occasions opposed it, yet, on its being carried, stated that, notwithstanding the opinion he entertained on the subject, he felt bound to carry into effect the desire of the House. The only regret that he felt on the subject was the smallness of the estimate, as he did not think that sufficient accommodation could be afforded for such a sum as 400 l.
 Dr. Bowring  complained that discussions in Committee, which would on many occasions prove interesting to their constituents, were not reported. On the present occasion, for instance, when they were voting away public money, he supposed what was taking place would not meet the public eye. He hoped the question would be formally brought forward by his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, with a view to secure full reports of their proceedings as was the case in France and Belgium.
 Dr. Bowring  agreed with his hon. friend that some experiment should be made, the more particularly as they were about to erect new Houses of Parliament, in the building, of which they would have the experience and benefit of that experiment.
 1068
 Dr. Bowring  was of opinion, that as the two first classes of claimants had had their claims allowed, the third class should meet with the same justice.
 Mr. Leader  remarked, that it had been clearly proved before the Committee on colonial and military expenditure, that this establishment was a mere sinecure. With regard to the 16,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  did not rise to make any objection to this vote, but he hoped that on an early day next Session a Committee would be appointed to investigate the subject. The great evil of the Colonial Governments was, that they were too much under the influence of the Government of Downing-street. It was a great misfortune that they should have to pay the expenses of all the colonies, and that not one of them was satisfied; that they were all full of complaints, and some of them in a complete state of rebellion, owing to bad government. They ought to have a colonial budget as well as an Indian budget, and a Committee ought to be appointed to see whether any and what reduction could be made. He wished to remind the hon. Baronet (the Under Secretary for the Colonies) that he had suggested to him the propriety of adopting some means of informing that House of every colonial appointment that took place before the parties appointed left England. What he recommended them to do was, to stop the supplies when they were backward in giving information.
 Mr. Hume  had stated that he had no objection to 20,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, it should be borne in mind, when they talked of adhering to strict rules, that the unfortunate parties in this instance had been preferring their
 1060 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, there was nothing but jobbing in the expenditure of counties. Cities and boroughs bore the expense of their prosecutions, and why should not counties?
 Mr. Hume  considered this a most improper vote. The Government had no control over the expenditure of the county-rates, and they should not give any money, the disposal of which they could not control. The thing was given as a sop to the landed interest, and he did not approve of the principle of the vote.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he had lately consulted many eminent architects respecting the construction of buildings, and he was free to confess that they all differed in their opinions as to the best mode of securing the advantages now sought by the proposed alteration. He could not, therefore confidently suggest any plan for the consideration of hon. Members, but, without any of the alterations alluded to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he thought that very great improvement might be effected by some slight changes in the interior of the House. Such was his opinion regarding its present state, that he felt convinced any experiment would be for the better.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer might say what he pleased, but one practical proof was worth a dozen theories; and he therefore begged to direct his attention to the Legislative Assembly of Belgium, where their proceedings were reported in full. [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer Times, 1073
 Mr. Hume  had lately visited Buckingham Palace, and felt bound to say, it was in a much more perfect and satisfactory state than he ever expected to have seen it. It was ready to be inhabited tomorrow. But if Buckingham Palace were to be inhabited, he wished to know what was to be done with St. James's?
 Mr. Hume  thought the delay which had occurred in bringing forward the minute which had taken place in respect to this proceeding was highly reprehensible; and he should therefore move, that the further discussion on the question be postponed until all the information connected with it was produced.
 Mr. Hume  did not think the Bill had suffered much from the omission of the clauses which the Lords had struck out; it might possibly be the better for wanting them. On the whole he was not at all sorry at what had taken place, and he only hoped that no delay would occur in passing the new Bill. For his own part, though he certainly thought the duty ought to be taken off entirely, he should not, on that account, oppose the present measure for its partial reduction.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what possible benefit the public had derived from the melting down of this coin, as on that depended the whole gist of the question, and the propriety or impropriety of allowing this vote.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the vote. He thought that this was a matter that ought to be explained. He did not understand why they ought to be called on in 1836 to defray an expense which it would appear had been incurred in 1831.
 Mr. Hume , upon that understanding, consented to withdraw his opposition.
 Mr. Philip Howard  would vote against the grant, because he was convinced that the good sense of the country was opposed to making the ladies of England political partisans.
 Mr. Bernal  doubted if the British Museum ever had the power of purchasing the whole collection. This Government laboured under great disadvantages as regarded the purchase of works of art. For every 1,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Potter  hoped the Members of his Majesty's Government who were present would not go after their leader, the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who had declared, that he did not mean to give any further opposition to this measure, after the two resolutions of the House in its favour.
 Mr. Potter  inquired what period the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed fixing for the new Bills coming into operation?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, on the 1st of October, which was a fortnight later than the period originally intended; but the delay, he would observe, was none of his causing.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that under the peculiar circumstances of the present case, and being anxious to prevent further delay or obstruction in the passing of this Bill, the House would perhaps allow him to move, that the Bill be read a second time to-night.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped, the hon. Member would be satisfied if he got the information he sought for by the time the report was brought up, the House would then have an opportunity of disagreeing to the vote, if the information adduced on the subject were not satisfactory.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the House having now official cognizance of what he supposed most of its Members were previously, through other channels of information, awar of—having now a knowledge of the amendments made by the House of Lords in this Bill, he would at once state that he thought it perfectly immaterial to enter upon the consideration of those amendments, inasmuch as they were amendments made by the House of Lords in a Bill of aid and supply, which he need not inform the House was a direct violation of their privileges. No one individual in that House had exerted himself more strongly to maintain, in all due respect, the privileges and rights of the House of Lords, as a coordinate branch of the Legislature, than himself, but upon the very same grounds that he had done so, he now felt it to be
 1088 1089 1090 1091
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regarded this as a very important subject, and he promised that, should he have the honour to fill next year the situation which he then held, he should, having in the mean time consulted with the Master of the Mint, bring it under the consideration of the House. With regard to the delay which had taken place in bringing the subject of the present Resolution under the notice of the House he begged to say, that that was entirely owing to the changes which had taken place in the Government since the minute was drawn up, which was in the time that Lord Spencer was in office, before the dissolution of Lord Melbourne's first Administration.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that if the Bill was now read a second time, there would be ample opportunity for considering the trifling variation in the present Bill from the former one, namely, the period of its commencing operation—when it got into Committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was highly important that the other House should have an opportunity of making some progress in the Bill, and of showing some intention in reference to it before the close of the week. He would, however, consent to postpone the second reading of the Bill till the next day, under the understanding that it might then be permitted to go through its remaining stages at one sitting.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that the Government would not have originated a vote of the kind, but the House had already come to the determination of having a portion of the gallery set apart for ladies. He had voted against that proposition; but having found himself in a minority, he had felt it to be his duty to submit an estimate of the expenses of the proposed alteration to the House, and it rested with the Committee to deal with it as it pleased. Neither the arguments urged at the time, nor the subsequent reflection he had given to the matter, had induced him to concur in the proposition.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there should be no neglect on the part of the Government to obtain information respecting the improvement of the House against next Session, and he would, if practicable, be very glad to make some experiment with reference to sound. He hoped the House would not be led away by the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member who had spoken last. He confessed he was satisfied with things as they were. All these conversations in Committee might be very important in the due and necessary discharge of their duty, but of what interest were they to the public? Or, even supposing they were of public interest, and that they were to be reported, where, he would ask, would they find readers for the immense mass of matter which they would amount to in print? It was all very well for hon. Gentlemen to talk of getting the proceedings of Parliament fully reported for the benefit of the public, but pf what utility would it be if they could
 1072
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the Committee would bear in mind, that the present Government were not responsible for the truly enormous sums which had been expended in the repairs of Buckingham Palace. Lord Grey's Government had submitted the whole question to a Committee of that House, and the result of their investigation was, a recommendation that a certain definite expenditure should be fixed. He admitted there had been a most unwise expenditure under this head; and the most ample and becoming accommodation for the Sovereign might well have been produced for much less than half the money. The present vote originated in certain works the charge for which had been matter of dispute, but being now adjudicated on, it was proper, provision should be made for the payment. He did not anticipate that anything material in addition to this vote would be called for.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if the etchings had not been purchased when they were they would have been lost. As a proof of their value he might state that 1,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, nothing had occurred during the discussion, or since, to alter his conviction. He regretted that he could not acquiesce in those claims, and he wished it to be known, that it was merely from a sense of duty that he resisted them, and not from any want of consideration for the claimants. He was afraid of setting a precedent which would be dangerous to the country. This sum (60,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was necessary in such cases to adhere to some definite rule. The time for putting in claims had been enlarged to double the original time given, and though it might seem a hardship to refuse parties to put in their claims who came a day or two too late, yet it might be a greater hardship on other parties if the rule should be relaxed. He would, however, promise to inquire into the matter.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted the difficulties complained of, but feared the alterations which would necessarily be required to obviate them were almost impracticable. The ceiling, in the first place, should be lowered to the level of the windows; the windows in such case should also be moved—an alteration which he apprehended the walls might not sustain. This should be followed by the lowering of the galleries which appeared to him all but impracticable.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he could suggest several beneficial alterations, which would be, he might say, unattended with any expense. He would, in the first place, have the table removed from its present position, immediately before the Chair, to the centre of the House, at the same time removing the Treasury benches also to the centre; and he would in the next place remove the Chair further back, for it was in itself a great obstacle. He had been in the reporters' gallery himself on occasions when the Speaker was addressing the House, but a single sentence of what the right hon. Gentleman uttered he could not hear. From the situation of the Speaker it was utterly impossible he could be heard, although he by no means spoke in a low tone of voice. These were alterations which could be made without expense, and at no inconvenience. The construction of the House with reference to sound was radically defective, but he would not recommend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to go to any great expense with a view to remove that defect, because he felt convinced any attempt of the kind would fail. If the lowering of the ceiling could be effected at a moderate expense he had no objection to it, but otherwise he should hope merely to see the alterations he had suggested made before the next Session of Parliament.
 Mr. Wakley  said, it was worthy of remark that though the Government refused to sanction the vote of 400 l.
 Mr. Wakley  could see no reason for, such precipitation with this Bill. It seemed as if the House was glad to have alterations made in their Bills for the very pleasure of putting them aside and bringing in new ones in their stead. For his own part, he was decidedly in favour of the clauses which had been expunged by the Lords. He thought no man should be allowed to print, or assist in printing, what he was not prepared to avow in his own name to society.
 Mr. Ewart  recommended Government, during the alterations that would be necessary in the present Houses, and the erection of the new, to put St. James's Palace into a state which would supply the requisite temporary acommodation for the meeting of Parliament.
 Mr. Ewart  should like to know whether any hon. Gentleman ever observed any evil or inconvenience result in the Chamber of Deputies in France in consequence of ladies being admitted to hear the debates?
 Mr. Ewart  thought that Government should be liberal in the support of such an experiment as was now being made for
 1066
 Mr. Tooke  was of opinion, that the presence of the ladies, instead of having any good effect, would be productive only of  1076
 Sir George Grey  said, that the Committee had recommended that the grant should be only taken provisionally, and accordingly the present sum was to be only conditionally applied. He believed, that in the course of a year or two the grant would be entirely abolished.
 Sir John Hobhouse  would endeavour to state the causes of the additional expense that had been incurred. It had arisen in consequence of the unavoidable delay that had occurred in getting the vessel from the coast of Syria. The perseverance of Colonel Chesney had overcome all the obstacles which, he was sorry to say, had been thrown in his way, not only by the Pacha of Egypt, but even, after this, by the officers of the Sultan, who did not give that aid and assistance that had been expected. The consequence of all this was, that, instead of Colonel Chesney being able to set sail in June, it was not till September, 1835, that the larger vessel was launched; and, in consequence of other obstacles from the local authorities, he was unable to put together the smaller
 1061
 Sir John Hobhouse  thought it a great pity that this great nation had not some authority to secure that which, once lost, could never be obtained.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, it was a practice which had always excited his disgust.
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that he dissented most decidedly from what had fallen from his noble Friend who had just sat down. He had considered the matter as a mere joke, and he considered it so still, for in his opinion nothing could be more absurd or preposterous than the motion on which the estimate was founded. He had a strong feeling against the proposition, because many things passed in that House, and necessarily in the elucidation of particular measures, which could not be listened to by ladies, and because they ought to have some place to retire to in which they would be relieved from everything like political strife and annoyance. He certainly should not like to be obliged to debate over again in a drawing room the different questions which might be discussed in that House, and if they were to agree to the present proposition he was quite satisfied that it would be impossible to continue society on the footing on which know happily stood. As far as literary knowledge was concerned he was as desirous as any man to extend the means of information to the ladies; but certainly he did not wish to see the peace and comfort of men's homes disturbed by having the discussions of the over night renewed in the day, as would be the case if this proposition were acted upon. France had been alluded to; but without any disparagement to France, he should be exceedingly sorry to see the state of society in that country transferred to this. It was in his mind most indecent to see high-bred females present during the debates, and when he saw them in the House of Lords he had often shuddered.
 1078
 Sir John Reid  thought the explanation which had been made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this subject was in every respect satisfactory, and that it certainly appeared from the right hon. Gentleman's statements that the Bank, instep of being gainers had been losers by this transaction.
 Sir Robert Inglis  called the attention of the Committee and of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the extreme inconvenience to which hon. Members were exposed who had occasion to visit the library in the dog-days. He hoped that something would be done to remedy it.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  thought, it would have been extremely improper in the Government to have erected a gallery without the sanction of the House, that being a debateable question; but the case was very different with respect to questions on which the House might be expected to be unanimous. For instance it could not be expected that there would be much difference of opinion as to the propriety of securing valuable works of art.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  stated, that the Bank had served the public greatly. Had 600,000 l.
 Sir T. Fremantle  objected to taking two stages upon an important Bill like the present, especially as no notice had been given of the alteration from the original scheme proposed by it.
 Mr. Hutt  supported the grant, the object of which would be of great use to the country.
 Mr. Hutt  said, that he had considered it very probable, there having been only fifty-nine who voted against the claims on the last occasion, when the subject was brought forward, and sixteen of those being members of the Government, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consider those claims just, and that he would have included them in the estimates. After having deliberately examined the statements made, he considered that there had been the greatest violation of treaty with respect to those claims.
 Viscount Howick  was quite prepared to support the proposition upon the general principle involved. He must confess that he could by no means attach the same importance to excluding females from the gallery of the House which was expressed by his right hon. Friend. On the contrary, he thought that the desire of ladies to hear the debates in Parliament, or to listen to the speeches of those in whom they took an interest, was not only very natural, but very laudable, and he was quite ready to promote it.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that as he had been appealed to directly, and as the Government seemed divided in opinion on this question, he did not wish to subject himself to the misunderstanding to which his giving a silent vote might give rise. He had a right to say that this was not a Cabinet question. He differed entirely from the sentiments expressed by his right hon. Friends who had spoken on this
 1077
 Mr. Hume  said, he perceived, that the Lords had made one amendment in the Bill, taking the appointment of the registrars from the Registrar-General, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and had vested it in an ever-changing and most unfit body for the purpose—the guardians of the poor. Such an alteration would open the door to great abuse and irregularity; and, he trusted that the noble Lord would not object to restore the original provision on that subject to the Bill.
 Mr. Wilks  expressed his great satisfaction with the measure. He might refer with pride to the fact, that it was with him the appointment of the Select Committee on the subject had originated in 1833. The measure would be a great national improvement, and he would not give any factious opposition to the amendments made in it. The Member for Middlesex was quite mistaken in what he had stated. By the Bill as it went to the Lords, the appointment of registrars was given to the guardians of the poor, and the Lords had only introduced what appeared to him an excellent amendment as to the qualification of the persons to be chosen registrars.
 Mr. Hume  felt, that it was useless for him to press his objection, but he did his duty in protesting against taking the power in these cases from the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 Mr. Wilks  said, that some of those amendments would create difficulties which ought not to be thrown in the way of those whom it was the object of the Bill to relieve—for instance, the substitution of the superintendent registrar; for the registrar would oblige parties, in many cases, to go a distance of fifteen miles to give the necessary notices. He also objected to the production of those notices weekly before the Board of Guardians. After every pauper case had been gone through—after the last relief was doled out to the last pauper on the list, then the time of the guardians was to be taken up by the reading of those notices. But if this form was considered necessary, what, let him ask, was to be done where there were no unions and no Board of Guardians? In that case, this part of the Bill would be inoperative in two-thirds of the United Kingdom.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the alterations made by the Lords would be productive of great mischief to the Bill itself, and great inconvenience to the country. However, the House of Commons would not be responsible for those changes. One great object of the Bill was, the prevention of clandestine marriages; but would the Bill have that effect? He thought, that so far from it, it would tend to facilitate them. There were at present two sorts of marriages—by bans and by licence, and now there was by this Bill, the marriage by notice to the registrar. The effect of this would be, that those who before had only one door open to clandestine marriages had now two. Those who made this charge would find in time, that they had inflicted a severe blow on themselves and their children, which they would have occasion to regret. However, though he differed much from the amendments of the Lords, he was disposed to take the Bill even as it was, for the reasons stated by his noble Friend (Lord John Russell), because it got the recognition of a most important principle, and they might have opportunities of improving the measure hereafter. When Mr. Canning got a Bill which had been sent up to the Lords, and there greatly altered, he said, that though he considered the amendments most objectionable, he would take them, for, as
 1124
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the last reason offered by the hon. and learned Gentleman a very bad one for adopting the Bill, if, indeed, it deserved the strong-censure he had bestowed upon it. He (Mr. Goulburn) had opposed the original Bill as sent up from this House, because it divested marriage of its religious character, and encouraged clandestine unions, and he could not say, that the amendments of the Lords had made him more willing
 1125
 The hon. Member  then moved, that a new writ for the borough of Stafford be not issued until ten days after the commencement of the next Session of Parliament.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was decidedly opposed to the Bill and to the practice of proceeding with measures of this important description at so late a period of the Session.
 Mr. A. Trevor  entirely coincided with the gallant Member for Lincoln. The principle of the Bill appeared to him to be most objectionable, and rather than suffer it to pass in such a hurried manner, he would continue to divide against it till eight o'clock in the morning.
 Mr. Hall  said, although he was one of those who entertained the same opinion with regard to this Bill as had been expressed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, yet, as it had already undergone considerable discussion, and had passed that House by a great majority, it would ill become him to take up the time of the House, or to trespass upon its attention more than was absolutely necessary upon the present occasion. But, connected as he was with the principality, and feeling a deep interest in everything that affected that part of the empire, he hoped he might be excused offering a few observations upon one of the amendments and stating the reasons why he could not concur in the alteration which had been made. It would be in the recollection of many hon. Members that, during the progress of this Bill through the Committee, the Member for Chester introduced a clause, which was carried by a considerable majority—not considerable when viewed numerically, but considerable in importance, inasmuch as the supporters of the humble Church of Wales triumphed, not only when opposed by his Majesty's Ministers, but also in opposition to the leading Members of the party who occupy the opposite benches. The clause, however, to which he alluded, contained two distinct propositions; the first was, that to every vacancy which might occur in any See in the Principality, The clergyman to be appointed, should understand the Welsh language, and the other was, that when any benefice became vacant, the person to be inducted should also
 1132 act as the shepherd of the flock, pastor populi pastor p storum, 1133 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 1134 l. l. l. 1135
 Mr. Hume  asked who nominated the managers on the former conference?
 The Speaker : the House.
 Mr. Hume  was present in the House when they were nominated, but believed that the nomination had been made by the Speaker. He, out of deference to the right hon. Gentleman, did not make any objection, although he certainly considered that the names which had been selected were not a fair specimen of the opinions entertained by hon. Members on his side of the House. If it was intended that the Bill should pass, with the amendments, then it might be all very well to appoint hon. Gentlemen entertaining the same opinions; but if the proceedings of the Conference were to be conducted fairly, having due regard to the differences of opinion prevailing among hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, then he must say that the selection had not been properly made.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe : How many constitute the body of managers?
 The Speaker : sixteen.
 Mr. T. Duncombe : Then I beg to move that the hon. Member for Middlesex, be substituted for one of those hon. Members who have not answered to their names.
 Lord John Russell  reported, that the managers had met the Lords at the free Conference, which was managed on the part of the Lords, by the Earl of Ripon, who acquainted them that the Lords adhere to their amendment in press 5, line 25; because the Municipal Corporations Act, not having provided that a fresh election should take place in the event of an equality of votes, the Lords consider that it would be in accordance with the principle of that Act, which this Bill is intended to amend, to meet the difficulty arising from an equality of votes, in the manner in which it is met under the provisions of that Act, namely, by the casting vote of the person presiding at the election. That the Lords likewise adhere to the insertion of Clause (L); because they are of opinion that the inconvenience arising from the placing of the Charitable Trusts under the management of the Lord Chancellor would be much greater than that of allowing them to remain until the end of the next Session, or until Parliament shall otherwise provide, in the hands of the persons in whom both Houses of Parliament concurred, in continuing them by the Act of last year. That the Lords observe, that it has not appeared that any practical injury has arisen from the disposition with respect to these trusts, made with the concurrence of both Houses in the course of last Session, but the Lords are, nevertheless, anxiously desirous that the management of these charitable funds should be placed upon a permanent and satisfactory footing, whereby the administration of charities, intended for the benefit of the poor, might, as far as possible, be divested of all party influence. That, thereupon, a discussion arose between the managers, on the part of the Commons, and the managers on the part of the Lords [for the proceedings of which, see Lords' debates—this day]; and that the managers on the part of the Lords, thereupon deliver back the Bill, and amendments to the managers of the Commons. It being quite clear, therefore, the noble
 1137
 Lord John Russell  said, that the question before the House was, that they should disagree with the Lords' amendment, and it should not be necessary for the Welsh Bishops to understand the Welsh language. He believed in the diocese of Llandaff, that language was not spoken to any great extent, and therefore it was unreasonable to make it a necessary qualification there; he thought also, that it would be an improper restriction on the prerogative of the Crown, to make such a rule as to the selection of Bishops, and in some cases, it would be found to operate in a most inconvenient manner.
 Mr. Aglionby  had not heard any reason to induce him to assent to the Lords' amendment, striking out the provision that the Welsh Bishops should understand the language of that country. As soon as the English became the vernacular language of Wales, then it would not be necessary that either the Bishops or Clergy should be acquainted with Welsh, but until that time, some restriction of the kind was necessary.
 Mr. Goulburn  believed, that the number of persons who were in other respects qualified to act as Bishops, who were well acquainted with the Welsh language, was very small, so that if this restriction was adopted, the choice would be very limited. He did not conceive that it was necessary that the Bishops should understand that language, although this might be the case with the great body of the Clergy in Wales, and there could be no doubt that all the Clergy understood the English language. If this rule were acted upon, they might get very incompetent persons appointed Bishops, and that merely because they spoke the Welsh language
 Mr. Hume  imputed the great preponderance of Dissenters in Wales, to the ignorance of the vernacular language of that country on the part of the clergy. In reply to the observation of the right hon. Gentleman, he would ask whether
 1138
 Mr. George F. Young  observed, if the hon. Member for Middlesex regarded the Archbishop of Canterbury, as an anti-Reformer, because he supported the clause in the Bill as it stood, he should also view the noble Lord in the same light. The hon. Member might also call him an anti-Reformer. He was perfectly ready to be designated by that name by the hon. Member, for no doubt he was an anti-Reformer in the estimation of the hon. Gentleman; but he (Mr. G. F. Young) felt satisfied, that he was not regarded in that light, either by his constituents, or by the enlightened portion of the public.
 Mr. Ewart  said, he should support the amendment of his hon. Friend, for, in rejecting the amendment of the Lords, he considered he should be only maintaining the principle of common sense, that the superintendents of the Church should understand the language of the people over whom they were set.
 An hon. Member  said, he could assure the House that they were little aware of the prevalence of the Welsh language in the principality. He believed, four-fifths of the inhabitants spoke it: he should give his vote for the amendment of the hon. Gentleman, because he considered it of great importance that the dignitaries of the Church should be able to converse with and address those over whom they presided.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, he should support the amendment of the Lords on two grounds, first because he considered it was of great importance that the widest possible range should be allowed to those who had to select persons to fill the episcopal office. And, secondly, because although unquestionably he admitted it was desirable that the Bishop should know the lan-
 1139
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, that really many of the arguments of those who supported the amendment of the Lords appeared to him to go the length of proving that Bishops were not wanted at all. He would not then maintain that proposition (though it was well known he was a Dissenter) but he did say this, that the duties of a Bishop could not be efficiently discharged without a knowledge of the language of those over whom he presides, so as to be able to converse with and address them. What would be said of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, if he were to send out as envoys to Continental Courts, men who were altogether ignorant of the language spoken in those countries? Was there no similarity in the cases? Was it not inconsistent with the religious and moral interests of a community that their spiritual superiors
 1140
 Mr. Trevor  had supported the motion of the hon. Member for Chester (Mr. Jervis) for enacting that all clergymen appointed to livings in Wales should be fully conversant with the Welsh language; but he did not consider the same reason which held good in the case of clergymen held good in the case of a Bishop which would justify him in placing the same restriction upon the choice of persons who were to fill Welsh Sees. He did not consider it necessary to urge as a  sine qua non
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that the noble Lord would not persist in continuing in the Bill the clause which had just been adopted by only a majority of six. He objected to the Bill altogether. It was a reflection on the Bishops that they appeared so anxious to get so much for themselves, and proposed to leave so little to the working clergy. The Bill had been brought from the other House, and if it had been a sound measure it would have encountered much more opposition than it did in its passage through that place. He thought that the House would only do justice if they postponed this Bill until they got some really good measures through the Lords. It must be evident, from what had taken place elsewhere, that they had little to expect from the other House in the shape of Reform. He hoped that the noble Lord would consent to postpone the further progress of the Bill until next Session, and he should propose an amendment to that effect. Anything that tended to reform abuses was sure to be rejected elsewhere, and the Commons were almost treated with indignity. He was not prepared to let Peers sit in that House while he and other Members had to stand if they wished to listen to the debates elsewhere. Even at the conference that had just been held they had been treated in a manner which he thought the House should not submit to. It was degrading to the Commons of England that the managers on their part had to stand uncovered, while the managers on the part of the Peers were seated and covered.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  rose to order. The observations of the hon. Member had nothing to do with the provisions of the Established Church Bill.
 Mr. Hume  did not know what the hon.
 1142
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  again rose to order, and appealed to the Chair.
 The Speaker  observed, that the hon. Member for Durham must be quite aware that it was extremely difficult to define on any occasion the exact limits within which an hon. Member must confine himself not to be out of order. At the same time, he must admit, that it did appear a little strange to urge as a reason for rejecting the Lords' amendments to this Bill that they had rejected the Commons' amendments to another Bill.
 Lord John Russell  reminded his hon. Friend that this Bill had been sent up from this House to the House of Lords, and they had added certain clauses to it which were now under discussion. The question then was as to how they should deal with these clauses?
 Mr. Hume  repeated, that the Members of the House of Commons who attended the conference had been obliged to stand, and had been driven into a corner like a parcel of sheep. He also wished to know why a Peer should sit with his hat on while a Member of that House was obliged to stand with his hat off, so that it was not possible for the Commons to do their duty.
 The Speaker  observed, that the question before the House was, whether the amendments made by the Lords in the Bill should be read a second time?
 Mr. Hume  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was perfectly correct, and so was he. His motion was, that the farther consideration of this amendment should be postponed until the next Session.
 Lord John Russell  thought the clause a very proper one. To agree to the proposition made by his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex would be, eventually, to reject the whole Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  opposed the motion, and added, that although he had a great respect for the hon. Member for Middlesex, no man wasted more of the time of the House than that hon. Gentleman. Government had a right, instead of being impeded,
 1143
 Mr. Ewart  held an opinion different from that of the hon. Member for Worcester. No man had done more good in that House than the hon. Member for Middlesex. There were some men who wasted a great deal of time in a little way. [ Hear, hear
 Lord John Russell  apprehended that, although the immediate effect of the motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex would be only to postpone the clause, yet it would place the House in the difficulty of being unable to pass the Bill until that postponed clause had been considered. He was willing, therefore, to take the division on his hon. Friend's motion as if it were a division on a motion for postponing the Bill altogether.
 Mr. Robinson : I wish to make a few observations on the present occasion in justification of the course I have felt it my duty to take with regard to this Bill. My complaint of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, respecting the Greek Loan is, that he must have been, for the last twelve months, aware of the situation of Greece, and the diversity of opinion existing among the three great Powers who had taken that country under their protection; but for some reason or other, which the noble Lord has not explained, the House of Commons was not called upon to express an opinion upon this subject until nearly the close of the Session. I find by the papers which the noble Lord has laid upon the table of the House, that correspondence has taken place between the noble Lord and the Ambassadors of France and Russia, Lord Durham at Petersburgh, and Lord Grenville at Paris, for several months past. And I have a right to ask the noble Lord why, considering the importance of the subject, when the noble Lord thought it necessary to ask the sanction of Parliament for guaranteeing the third instalment of the Greek Loan, why the House of Commons was not called upon to decide upon this question at an earlier period of the Session? When the noble Lord brought the Bill first forward he produced no papers, but
 1145 1146 1147
 Lord Palmerston  said, that having at length stated on former occasions the grounds on which he asked the House to agree to this measure, he should not at this late hour of the night (half past twelve) attempt to follow the hon. Member through the many topics he had dwelt upon in the course of his long speech. He certainly had hoped, that Russia would have concurred in the proposition, and would have paid her proportion; and he had not applied to Parliament for the discretionary power the Government now asked for, till it was ascertained that Russia would not fulfil the engagement. This was only known the other day; which would probably be a sufficient answer to the objection of the hon. Member for Worcester as to Ministers not bringing the question forward at an earlier period. The delay with regard to the papers, was accounted for by the same cause, which would also shew that Ministers had no disposition unnecessarily to pursue a course different from that of France and Russia. To demonstrate that they did not wish to urge the Bill precipi-
 1148 1149
 Mr. George F. Young , notwithstanding the statement made by the noble Lord, must concur in the view of the subject taken by the hon. Member for Worcester
 Captain Chetwynd  opposed the motion. The report had undergone a very full and patient investigation in the other House of Parliament, and none of the illegal and immoral practices attributed to the borough had been substantiated. But whatever the supposed delinquency of the borough might be, he thought it had already been sufficiently punished by the length of time during which it had been left with only one Representative.
 Lord John Russell  stated, that the amendment had been made by the Lords because their Lordships thought the Bill, in its original shape, did not provide a sufficient publicity in the marriage of Dissenters. He certainly did not think the amendment necessary, but, at the same time, he could not regard it as imposing anything like a degradation upon Dissenters.
 Lord John Russell  confessed he was surprised at the objection now stated by the hon. Member, because in the former Bill which he (Lord J. Russell) introduced upon this subject he proposed to allow the publication of bans in Dissenting chapels; but this proposition no sooner became known than he received a communication from a Dissenting minister, declaring that the Dissenters would never consent to have their places of worship desecrated by the observance of so unholy a form.
 Lord John Russell  reported, that the managers had met the Lords at the Free Conference, which was managed on the part of the Lords by the Earl of Ripon; that they acquainted the Lords that the Commons agree to the amendment in press 4, line 28; that they insist upon their disagreement to the amendments in press 5, line 25, and in press 6, line 17, and upon their disagreement to clause (L); and that they agree to the amendment made by the Lords in the amendment made by the Commons to clause (Z). That the Commons greatly regret that they are unable to agree to all the amendments made by the Lords; that they insist on their disagreement to the amendments made by the Lords in press 5, line 25, and press 6, line 17, because it does not seem reasonable, when the means of popular election are at hand, to refer to chance the nomination not only of the mayor, but likewise, as a necessary consequence, of the body of aldermen, who will remain in office for the period of three and six years. 1126
 Lord John Russell  could not consent to the appointment of such a Committee as that proposed by his hon. Friend; because, if his hon. Friend would inspect the journals of the House, he would obtain as much information with respect to the nature of these conferences as could be obtained by the researches of any Committee. It was the practice in former days in free conferences for both the managers for the Commons and the managers for the Lords to express their opinions with reference to the matter in dispute. But at the same time it was always in the power of the managers for both Houses to break off the conference whenever they thought fit. For instance, at a free conference in April, 1740, after the managers for the House of Commons had stated their reasons, the managers for the House of Lords stated, that not having received instructions from the House, they could not take upon themselves to represent what the answer of the House would be. Now what had been done in 1740 was in effect what had been done that day. Aware of the circumstance, he (Lord J. Russell) had thought it better not to enter into the merits of the question in debate; for if he had done so, it would have been in the power of the managers of the House of Lords to avoid making any reply. It was always in their power to say, "We will acquaint the House of Lords with your reasons, and when we are further instructed, we will communicate our answer." He had acted according to precedent, and in such cases he considered it advisable always to conform to precedent.
 Mr. Hindley , adverting to the recent conference, observed, that it was just as dumb as those conferences which were not termed free. The hon. Member proceeded to state his objections to the amendments made by the House of Lords in the Bill under consideration, and proposed that those amendments should be rejected.
 Mr. Hindley  withdrew his admendment, and the Lords' amendment was agreed to.
 Mr. Hindley  rose to enter his protest against it. If the members of the Established Church were allowed to marry after the publication of bans in their own churches, he did not see why the Dissenters should not also be allowed to marry after the same form had been observed in their own chapels. It was only common justice that the publication of bans should be allowed in Dissenting places of worship, as well as in the Church of England.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had strong and insuperable objections to the measure. He moved as an amendment, that the House do adjourn.
 Mr. Baines  observed, that the professed object of the House of Lords was to prevent clandestine marriages. Now, not only would those marriages not be prevented by the amendments which their Lordships had introduced into the Bill, but the means of effecting them would be afforded in two ways, instead of one.
 Mr. George Palmer  characterised the Bill as destructive of the peace and harmony of private families. He should think himself lost to all sense of his duty to his constituents, and to the public, if he did not do all he could to prevent it from being passed into a law. It would lead to infidelity; for what greater encouragement could be given to infidelity than to induce young people to show indifference towards religion.
 Mr. Wilks  declared, that if he stood alone he would divide against it. The clause, in its amended shape, required the superintendent of the district to send to the clerk of the Union the names of all persons, being Protestant Dissenters, who should notify that they had an intention of being married, that he should enter the same in a book kept for that purpose, and that the entry so made should be read over weekly for three successive meetings of the guardians of the poor. This was a degradation to which the Dissenters would never consent.
 Mr. Brotherton , on the contrary, did not think that the Bill was at all calculated to injure the Established Church. In his opinion, it was merely a matter of money. Although the amendments were not such as he entirely approved of, still he would not oppose them.
 Mr. Brotherton  declared, that it would be regarded by the Dissenters as intolerable.
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that the hon. Member for Boston, seeing the position in which the measure then stood, would not press his objection to a division. There was no doubt but that the clause, as it then stood, would place the Dissenter in a degrading situation; but this was a fault which might afterwards be amended. He should be sorry to follow any course that might hazard the loss of the Bill, and for that reason, although he felt the full force of the objection taken by the hon. Member for Boston, he should not be disposed to divide with him.
 Mr. Hume , brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to examine the Lords' Journals, to ascertain the course taken by their Lordships with respect to the Stafford Disfranchisement Bill.
 Mr. Hume  presumed that it was competent to any hon. Member, although not a manager, to make a few observations on what had taken place. He had always understood that, at a free Conference between the two Houses, the question in dispute was argued, so that, if possible, the differences of opinion between the two Houses might be reconciled. With that expectation he had attended this Conference, but found no difference between the proceedings and those of ordinary Conferences; except that at the latter a written paper was delivered by the managers of the House of Lords, instead of the parole communication which the noble Lord had just reported at the Bar. Of the two modes of proceeding he certainly thought the usual one the better; for in that there was an authentic instrument that might justly be made the subject of discussion. He certainly could not boast of any experience on the subject; but if
 1127
 Mr. Borthwick  entertained the most insuperable objections to the Bill. Even in its amended form, he thought it would tend to promote illegal marriages, and therefore, with the view of defeating it altogether, he should move that the Lord's amendments be read a second time that day three months.
 Mr. M. Philips  could not approve of the amendments introduced by the Lords; but at the same time, conceiving an important principle would be gained by the Bill, even as it then stood, he, for one, should not risk its loss by opposing the amendments.
 The Attorney-General  begged to make a few remarks in answer to those hon. Gentlemen who appeared to be disappointed at the course pursued with respect to the free conference. It was impossible to continue any negotiation with the House of Lords, as to the Bill, in question except by asking for a free conference. But the conference which had that evening taken place was not all. The play was not over; only the first act had been performed. There must be a second conference; unless (as he was not without hopes might be the case) the House of Lords should abandon the obnoxious clause, and pass the Bill without it. He repeated, however, that there might be a second conference, and that then the wishes of hon. Gentlemen might be gratified.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  defended the amendments which had been made by the House of Lords in the Marriage Registration Bill. He conceived that the Bill, in its original shape, was one of the most deadly blows that had ever been aimed at the Established Church.
 Mr. A. Trevor  objected to the motion, and moved, as an amendment, that the writ be not issued for one week.
 Mr. Walter  was under the necessity of calling the attention of the House to the matter of which he had given notice, in consequence of an occurrence which had taken place yesterday. He had come down to the House yesterday at half-past four o'clock, the usual hour of commencing public business, in order to address a few words to the House on the Stamp Bill, then a second time on its passage through Parliament. He then found, to his utter surprise, that the second reading, the Committee, the third reading, had all been passed  per saltum, 1192
 Mr. Harvey  wished to know why the principle contained in this Bill had not been applied to a similar description of property in this country? The object of this Bill—and a very desirable object it was—was to prevent the Corporations of Ireland from dealing with the property confided to their care, until a measure for the better regulation of the Municipal
 1209
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the motive and reason for passing this Bill did not exist as regarded England. The necessity for this Bill arose from the fact of the other House of Parliament having rejected a Bill which provided for the better regulation of Corporate Property in Ireland. Had that Bill passed through the other House of Parliament, the present Bill would have been wholly unnecessary.
 The Solicitor-General  reminded the hon. Member for Southwark, that in the English Bill of last year a provision was introduced which had the effect that the present Bill would have—namely, to prevent the alienation of corporate property until the Bill for the better regulation of Municipal Corporations should have come into operation.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  objected to the further progress of a Bill of such importance at so late a period of the Session. He was opposed to the principle of the Bill in every respect. The case of the Jews was very different from that of the Dissenters. The same principle did not apply in both cases. He would move that the order of the day be read that day three months, and if he stood alone he would divide the House upon this question, in order to show to the country that there were some Members in that House who wished to preserve it a Christian assembly.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would support the amendment of his hon. Friend. He would ask how was it possible for a member of the Jewish persuasion to attend in that House when prayers were said in which the name of the Saviour was invoked? He knew that it was fruitless to resist the Bill in that House, but it was a consolation to him and to the religious people of this country, that they might hope that this Bill would meet with a very different reception elsewhere.
 Mr. Borthwick  considered this Bill an inroad on the constitution, and would take every opportunity of recording his vote against it.
 Mr. Ewart  contended, that the House ought to insist on retaining the clause which gives the last word to the party accused—indeed, that clause involved the whole principle of the Bill. In 1826, Lord Lyndhurst, in his place in that House, had said that he would oppose any Bill on this subject which did not contain this clause. In 1836 this clause was that to which of all others the noble Lord most objected. He moved that the Commons disagree to the amendments of the Lords on this clause.
 Lord J. Russell  agreed, with some reluctance, to this motion. He did so, because a Select Committee of that House had pronounced a very decided opinion upon it. He thought it right, however, to inform the House, that since the last discussion on the subject he had received a very long letter from Lord Chief Justice
 1211
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose to propose an additional clause to this Bill; not that he approved of this Bill—on the contrary, it was repugnant to his feelings as a man, as a Christian, as a fellow-creature, as a neighbour, as a friend. It prohibited him from the practice of hospitality to his poor and distressed neighbours; but he would tell the Chancellor of the Exchequer with all his sacks of money, that, acting upon the precepts and following the example of his respected and venerated father, he would claim the exercise of hospitality as an hereditary right. He had as little occasion to exercise bribery at his elections as any Member in that House; and he would now declare that never, directly or indirectly, had he bribed the vote of any of his tenants in his own favour. His constituents knew him as a neighbour and a friend; and so long as they did know him as such, he should not be afraid of any stranger, however rich, or however gifted, who came among them to solicit their votes. The hon. and gallant Member brought up his clause.
 Lord John
 1200  (in answer to a remark made by Lord Sandon, which did not reach us) said, that it had been his intention, after the next order of the day was read, to state the course which he intended to take with respect to the above Bill. On the last day that the Bill was before the House, it gave rise to a desultory conversation which had not advanced the measure. Since then he had seen some notices on the subject—one by the hon. Member for Finsbury, on a subject which he had thought had been dropped till the next Session—namely, the revenues of cathedrals. Now, if the Bill was to be discussed in connexion with that and other subjects, he had only the alternative—looking at the state of the other business in the House—either to bring it forward early, and discuss it from day to day, to the great delay of other Bills, and the prolonging of the Session, or to let the other measures take precedence, and, when they should be disposed of, to bring on this at a period in a House too thinly attended to consider a measure of that importance. Under these circumstances, and considering that several hon. Members had already left town, who would, if present, take an active part in the discussion of the measure, he thought he should best consult the convenience of the House, and the due consideration of this Bill on a future occasion, by postponing it to the next Session. He would not then enter into the merits of the Reports of the Church Commissioners, on which this Bill was founded. He would content himself for the present with observing, that the measures recommended in those Reports were efficient measures of Church Reform, and he should be able to maintain that proposition at the proper time.
 Mr. Robinson  concurred, in much of what had been observed by the hon. Member, who had introduced the subject to the House, and by the hon. Member for Middlesex. It was a fact, that commercial men of this country, were exposed to many hardships and difficulties in many parts of the world, and that the constant vigilance, and active exertions of our diplomatic agents, were necessary for their protection. The magnanimity and generosity of England, in giving up Java at the close of the war, did not stop; she also gave up the right of fishing off Newfoundland to the French, which they now practised to the annoyance of the English. There were many other important matters connected with our commercial relations, which required the diligent inquiries of Government. The merchants of this country did not seek for exclusive privileges, but they bad a right to certain advantages, in virtue of treaties, which ought not to be allowed to be infringed.
 Mr. Leader : I feel bound to oppose this measure, first, on principle, because I consider that all the money advanced ought to he repaid; and next, on points of detail, for, if we cannot get back all the money, we certainly ought to get more than is proposed by the Bill. I trust, therefore, that the House will grant me a hearing for a very few minutes, while I call their attention to the return relating to the million loan. Not many weeks past a return was printed for the use of Members, stating the
 1201 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1202 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1203 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1204 1205 1206 1207
 Mr. Hume  said, that a grosser departure from its engagements had never been made by any country, than by Holland, in this case. He foretold in 1824, that such would be the case. When the papers were laid on the table, they would see what had been done. He believed it would be found that very little had been done for our commerce, and he must add his conviction, that the commerce of this country had suffered more by the neglect of its diplomatic agents, than that of any other country whatever. Had this treaty been made with America, there was no doubt she would have insisted on its fulfilment, or she would have made the Dutch feel the consequences. It was a fact, that the
 1199
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  expressed his satisfaction at the explanation given by the noble Lord, and would not press his motion.
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  rose to move as an amendment, that the petition presented on the 27th of June respecting the duties imposed on British manufactures on their importation into Java, be taken into consideration. That petition, the hon. Member said, was one of great importance to the commercial and manu-
 1193 1194 * * * * * 1195
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to place the real facts of the case before the House, and hoped he should be able to satisfy his hon. Friend that the money had not been diverted from the original purpose of the grant. His noble Friend's (Lord Spencer) intention, when he introduced the Bill, undoubtedly was, that the money should be applied for the relief of the ecclesiastical incumbents in Ireland. His noble Friend, however, had been met by objections from every side of the House, that the measure would be incomplete unless the grant was extended to lay as well as ecclesiastical claimants, and it was in consequence of an amendment forced on Government by the House that this extension took place. No greater misconception could exist than that which pervaded his hon. Friend's remarks, and which had extended to the public out of doors, that the Bill was intended solely, or mainly, as a measure of relief to the tithe-owner. I was intended mainly to give relief to the tithe-payer, because the receipt of this money by the tithe-owner protected the tithe-payer to a certain extent from demands for tithe. It took away from the tithe-owner the right of proceeding against the tithe-payer, and was thus made conducive to the establishment of tranquillity in Ireland. It was not intended by the Act to give relief to certain parties who might be owners of tithe, but to all owners of tithe who complied with the conditions of the Act, who delivered in their schedules, proved that a sum of money was fairly due to them, and that they had not been able to recover it He did not at all complain of the hon. Gentleman's statement on the subject; but base and calumnious delusions were sought to be propagated among the public by selecting certain names from the list, with a view to make it appear that Government had endeavoured to make a job of the grant, and to advance money to their own favourites exclusively. He was aware that there was no hon. Gentleman opposite who would not immediately disavow such a supposition, but out of doors certain parties had attempted to show, with a singular power of misrepresentation, that the supporters of the Administration had been particularly favoured in the distribution of the money, when, in point of fact, Government had no control over the matter. It
 1208 l. l. l. l.
 Sir John Reid  hoped that the Government, during the recess, would turn their attention to, with a view to redress, many of the grievances which related to our commerce. Complaints had been made at Sincapore and other places, of duties being laid on British goods to which they ought not to have been subjected. He did hope that the attention of Government would be directed to these matters.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the hon. Member for Middlesex seemed to be under the impression, that the commerce of this country was suffering from the neglect or apathy of our diplomatic agents. In that, he could assure the hon. Member that he was mistaken. Half the correspondence which reached his office, from our diplomatic agents abroad, had reference to the commerce of the country.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that his hon. Friend had undoubtedly called the attention of the House to a very serious grievance which this country suffered by reason of the conduct of the Dutch Government, and it could not be denied that for a long course of years the Dutch Government had most distinctly violated the stipulations of a solemn treaty which it had contracted with Great Britain. His hon.
 1196 1197 1198
 Mr. R. Stuart  brought up the Report on the Tithe Compositions (Ireland) Bill.
 Captain Jones , after complaining of the unequal operation which a certain clause in the Bill would have upon those who had paid up their instalments under the Million Act, proposed, as a remedy, the insertion of these words in the clause—"in respect of any such instalments which said party may have received."
 Mr. Lynch  expressed his regret that Government had not consented to advance 500,000 l.
 Mr. Hawkins  said, he did not see the utility of leaving out the clause because the Lords were not likely to assent to it this Session. They would not be more
 1214
 Mr. Hawkins  said, that of course he would not, but he was sorry to find, from the statement of the learned Gentleman, that the introduction of such a clause could possibly endanger the Bill elsewhere.
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the report on the Municipal Elections Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that 100,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had been exposed to two very different attacks on account of this Bill. The hon. Member for Bridport said last evening that it was intended by this Bill to abandon all claims to the instalments granted under the Million Act, and now the gallant Officer opposite declared that the measure would lead to oppressive and vexatious proceedings. The gallant Member apprehended that this Bill would render it necessary for the clergy in Ireland to proceed for the recovery of their tithes by writs of rebellion where they were not obliged to do so at present—namely, in the north of Ireland. Now nothing could be further from his intentions than to produce such a result by this measure; in fact, his intention was quite the reverse. One of the objects which he had in view, certainly was the recovery of the instalments from the landlords. It surely would not be said that the Protestant landlords of Ireland were so indifferent to the support of their Church there, that they would not pay these instalments without having writs of rebellion issued against them? Such at all events, could not be the case in the imstance of the Protestant landlords of the north of Ireland The hon. and gallant officer represented one of the northern counties, he was aware that in those counties tithes were, generally speaking, cheerfully paid and he must know that there would exist no difficulty there either as respected the
 1213 l. l.
 The Attorney-General  said, that in consequence of the rejection of the above Bill, it had become necessary for him to introduce certain measures intended to be only of a temporary nature, for the purpose of carrying into effect certain provisions of the Bill to which no objection had been made in either House, and which, if neglected, would be productive of great inconvenience. The first Bill for which he should move, would be a Bill for the better administration of justice in certain boroughs. Without this, some of the towns would not be able to hold Quarter Sessions. He should next move a Bill to make temporary provision for the boundaries of certain boroughs. The third Bill for which he should move was for the better administration of the borough fund in certain boroughs. It was to allow certain corporations—for instance, Liverpool—to lease certain property. By this Bill, Liverpool would save 10,000 l.,
 The Attorney-General  proposed to omit clause 5. It was not that he disapproved of the clause—quite the reverse, but the introduction of it into the Bill would, he feared, have the effect of inducing the Lords to throw out the Bill altogether.
 The Attorney-General  said, that all this would be very well, and he would have no objection to such a course, if the Lords would merely throw out the clause, and pass the Bill. But his apprehension was, that if they sent up the Bill with a new clause in it, the Lords would not allow it to be read a second time and sent to Committee, but would throw it out; altogether. What would become of Ipswich, Sunderland, and other places, if that should be done? They should send it up like the Newspaper Stamps' Bill, without any alteration, and then the Lords could not fail to pass it. He would suggest to the hon. Member for Newport, that when the Bill was in the Lords, it would be in the power of any noble Lord to move that this clause be added, and if it should then be added, and the Bill came down again in that shape to the Commons, he need not say that they would most joyfully accept it. If they sent up the Bill, however, with new matter in it, he was under the greatest apprehension that the Bill would be entirely lost. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member for Newport would not persevere in his opposition to the omission of the clause.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, the march of legislation had been lately so rapid that hon. Members did not actually know what they were doing. It would surprise the learned Gentleman and other Members when they were told that the Bill now proposed for a second reading had not been read a first time. Such, however, was the fact. On Saturday, some parchments in the form of Bills were laid on the table, and the titles of them read. As some hon. Members on his side of the House wished to know something of them and their contents, they took up one, and on untying it, were surprised to find it all a blank. The other two were the same. Surely, under such circumstances, it would be impossible for them to suspend the standing orders, in order to pass the Bills that evening.
 The Solicitor-General  said, the entry upon the journals was, that the Bills were ordered for a second reading; which, of course, implied that they had been read a first time. The journals were conclusive. They were Bills on which no discussion could arise, all the clauses having been agreed to by both Houses.
 The Speaker : There can be no doubt that a copy of the Bill on parchment should be on the table of the House when the first reading of it is moved. I was not aware that such was not the case in the present instance. I now understand that the reason of this not being so was this—that the Bills were at that moment sent to the printer, in order to insure their being printed and in the hands of Members as early as possible that morning.
 The Earl of Lincoln  said, hon. Members were prevented from knowing what the Bills were on Saturday, and which were only delivered to them that morning; so that it was impossible any Gentleman could know what he was about.
 Mr. Charles Ross  had made inquiries of many Parliamentary agents, and none of them had ever known an instance of the kind.
 Mr. Charlton  deprecated the course that had been adopted. In his opinion, hon. Members ought to have had an opportunity of seeing what the measures were.
 The Solicitor-General  said, there Was not one word inserted in the Bill that had not been assented to by the House, and
 1229
 Mr. Grove Price  was by no means satisfied with the answer of the noble Lord. He was about to refer to Corunna, and to the coast of Spain adjacent to where the British squadron was stationed, without wandering to Bohemia. He wished to know whether the British force under Lord John Hay, paid and victualled by this country, was to remain neutral, or to take part for or against the friends of the Constitution of 1812.
 Mr. Warburton  rose to move the omission of that clause in the Bill which exempted the Duke of Marlborough from the payment of the duties it imposed. Those duties were a four-shilling duty, a shilling, and a sixpenny duty. With respect to the first, there could be no doubt whatever that the pension of the Duke of Marlborough was liable to it. It had been constantly paid since the first granting of the pension, with the exception he should explain to the House. It had, indeed, been represented by a paper which had been put into the hands of Members, that by the 5th Ann, it was provided that the pension should be paid without any charges or fees. But he (Mr. Warburton) affirmed that this was not a fair quotation from the Act. The language of the Act was, that the pension should be paid without any fees or charges "to be demanded or taken for paying the same, or any part thereof." And that very Act gave his Grace a remedy in case any deductions were attempted to be made from the amount of his pension, on account of any fees or charges which could not legally be demanded; it provided, that in such case, he might bring his action in a court of law against the persons making the illegal demands. It was clear, therefore, that even admitting the law of the case to be on the side of the Duke, he was not under the necessity of appealing to Parliament: for if either the four-shilling, the one shilling, or the sixpenny duty were illegally imposed upon him, he had his remedy by an action at law. As to the one shilling, and the sixpenny duties, he (Mr. Warburton) admitted, that by the 31st and 32d Geo. 2nd c. 33, his Grace was exempted from the payment of the four-shilling duty, for that Act undoubtedly exempted from the payment of all duties belonging to the crown, any pensions granted by his Majesty's successor, by any Act of Parliament, in fee or fee tail. And as by the 48th Geo. 3rd, any pension was exempted from the payment of the duties then levied, (the sixpenny, the one shilling, and the four-shilling duties) which had been specially exempted from the payments of any or either of such duties, his Grace, in being exempted from the four shilling-duty, was
 1232 l. l. 1233
 Mr. Robinson  said, he should support the motion of the hon. Member for Bridport, and he entirely agreed in the arguments by which that motion had been supported. The House had no reason to suppose that Ministers intended to support the clause brought forward by the hon. Member for Oxfordshire, nay, more, when that motion was under discussion, not one Member of the Government had expressed his approval of it: the Chancellor of the Exchequer, indeed, had said, that he considered it a question of doubt, and that he should give his vote in favour of the doubts; but no other Minister had in any way expressed himself favourable to it. He (Mr. Robinson) contended, that a vote taken when the House was under such a false impression, could not be considered indicative of its real feelings. He did not feel it necessary to argue the merits, but he would ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when the first Duke had submitted to the deductions in question, what services had the present Duke rendered the country that entitled him to exemption from those deductions?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had nothing more to say upon the subject than what he stated the other evening, except this, that the hon. Member for Bridport was completely mistaken, when he supposed that the clause in question had been taken up by the Government. It was true that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had supported the clause when it was under consideration on the former occasion, and it was equally true that he should do so again; but in doing so, it must be understood, that he was expressing only his own individual opinion on the merits of the case. Looking at the Acts of Parliament, and at the various circumstances connected with the grant, as originally made to the great Duke of Marlborough, there appeared to him to be a doubt as to whether a tax could possibly be imposed upon it; and having that doubt in his mind, he determined to give the present Duke the benefit of it. As a proof that the clause had not been treated as a Government measure, he need only observe, that three members of the Administration had voted against it.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he was one of
 1234
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he had any doubt upon his mind, ought to give it in favour of the public, not of the Duke of Marlborough, whose ancestor had been sufficiently well paid for the services he performed; and who, moreover, had always been liable to such deductions as that from which now, for the first time, it was proposed to exempt his descendant. He begged to ask, whether at the end of a Session, with no more than fifty Members present, it was fit or proper for the House to overrule that which had been an invariable custom for upwards of 100 years?
 Mr. Brotherton  felt that he should not be doing his duty to his constituents if he did not oppose this clause. He felt satisfied, indeed, that this country never could be happy or prosperous till war was discountenanced, and warriors held in less estimation than at present.
 Mr. Trevor  said, it was unjust and un. fair to represent this clause as giving the present Duke of Marlborough any increase of pension. He should not enter into the line of argument which had been taken by the hon. Member for Salford. He deprecated war and warriors. But he (Mr. Trevor) should like to ask him, what would have become of this country at the time of the Duke of Marlborough, had it not been for the splendid victories achieved by that celebrated general. We were fighting then,  pro aris et focis 1235
 Mr. Cutlar  Fergusson agreed with his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that as there was doubt upon the Subject, it ought to be given in favour of the Duke.
 Dr. Lushington  objected to the form and mode in which the clause had been introduced into the Bill. Such a clause should have been proposed, not on the bringing up of the report, but in a Committee of the whole House. He was decidedly of opinion, that the pension of the Duke of Marlborough Was liable to taxation, in the same manner as other pensions, and for that reason he should now vote with the hon. Member for Bridport for the omission of the clause.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would support the clause. The pension of the Duke of Marl-borough, it must be recollected, had been fairly earned; an observation which would not apply to the pension of many a Chancellor of the Exchequer or Secretary of State.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, I feel it my duty before a Bill, which will finally unchristianize this House, (for if it pass, it will be quite possible for this House to become a Jewish Sanhedrim), I feel it my duty to give it my most strenuous opposition. Some hon. Members may think it immaterial what is the religious creed of the body representing the people in this House. I cannot concur in that feeling. Nor can I—God forbid that I should offer such an insult to any dissenting Christians, as to place their claims with regard to civil disabilities upon a par with those of the Jews, who deny the birth and the existence of the Messiah. I should like to ask, how can the Jews, if admitted into this House, join in the prayers which are offered up to the supreme Being for a blessing upon our undertakings before we proceed to business? Do they not deny not only the divinity, but the very existence of the Being, in whose name they are offered up. And am I not justified in saying, that by admitting the Jews into this House, you unchristianize this House? You do not merely dissever Church and State; you separate between the State and Christianity. I believe I have good ground for asserting, that this measure is looked upon with execration and disgust by a considerable portion of the reflecting community throughout England. I trust I shall find among the Dissenters of my constituents those who will justify me in the course I have taken with regard to it. I do believe, that any man possessing genuine Christian principles, must view this measure with disgust. I speak not thus with any feelings of ill will towards the Jews. I believe them to be a peaceful and
 1237
 Mr. Borthwick : I cannot allow this Bill to pass its final stage in this House, without expressing my strong opposition to it, and my entire concurrence in what has fallen from my hon. Friend, the Member for Durham, (Mr. Trevor) in regard to it. On a former occasion, when I ventured to say, that I opposed this Bill, not as a Christian, but as a citizen, I had not time to state why I made that distinction, and it is for that purpose alone I now rise. I do not apprehend any evil to the Church of England from this measure. I believe her to be founded on a rock, which cannot be shaken by any act of this, or any other legislative assembly; and we are too much accustomed to speak, as though we were the protectors of the Church, and as if she were in danger from any acts of ours. But so soon as you admit those, who have been properly represented as deniers of the very God whom we worship, and whom the Church acknowledges, into the legislative assembly of the country you sever
 1238
 Colonel Sibthorp : Sir, I am not afraid to divide. I think if the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had brought forward so important a mea-sure as this, affecting, as it does, the religion and the institutions of this country, at an earlier period of the Session, so as to have allowed time for proper discussion, he would have acted with greater credit to himself, and given more satisfaction to the country. I agree with my hon. Friend who spoke first, that this measure will be viewed with disgust and dissatisfaction through out the reflecting part of the community. I believe it will be so among my own constituents. Sir, I have no hostility to the Jews; but I say, that if they are admitted into this House, it will be impossible for them to attend to duties here, with all those forms which are prescribed to ourselves, unless, indeed, they go through them  pro formâ.
 Sir Charles B. Vere : I consider this a measure pregnant with danger to the Established Church in this country. I hope we shall still continue to be governed by a Christian Legislature, and that our laws will still have the sanction of Christianity upon them. I regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not bring forward so important a measure at an earlier period of the Session. I think that if it pass into a law, our laws will be stripped of that which constitutes the national honour and glory: for I remember the words of a celebrated Frenchman, when comparing the British with the French law, said, the difference was, that the law of England was the law of its religion, the law of France, was an episcopal law.
 Captain Boldero  said that having complied with the usual rule of courtesy by giving the noble Lord notice, he rose in the exercise of his privilege to put a question to him. He wished to be informed whether Government had received any official intelligence announcing that the National Guard of Madrid had been disembodied, and that the municipality had refused to take up arms, having been ordered to do so? If such were the fact, the noble Lord would, perhaps, add what passing events had led to this proceeding. The present posture of affairs in Spain seemed to require all the noble Lord's judgment. Having put this single question, he should make no further observation, being sure that the answer to it would receive all attention.
 Colonel Sibthorp  had opposed the Bill in every preceding stage, and would oppose it in the present. He concluded with moving, that the report be taken into consideration that day three months.
 Sir George Sinclair  inquired whether the British Legion was to be employed in supporting the Constitution of 1812?
 Mr. Aglionby  moved the Order of the Day for the further consideration of the Report.
 Sir John Elley  hoped he should not be considered irregular in offering a few words. The situation of General Evans seemed very critical and difficult. It appeared that an order had been sent for three battalions of Spanish troops to quit the British Legion, and to return to Vittoria; and this had been done by order of Cordova. The noble Lord had said that the British Legion was at the disposal of the Spanish Government, which Spanish Government had named Cordova as Commander-in-chief. Having attached the three battalions on a former occasion, Cordova had issued orders to detach them again and on the receipt of the orders, the troops became a deliberative body.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that in order to avoid any difficulty with respect to the Lords' amendments to the Irish Grand Jury Bill, and to satisfy their just pretensions, he should move that the Bill, as sent down from their Lordships' House, be laid aside, and that leave be given to introduce a new Bill, omitting those clauses which had been struck out or altered by their Lordships. The noble Lord then brought in a Bill for consolidating and amending the laws for the regulation of Grand Juries in Ireland, which was read a first time, and ordered to be read a second time to-morrow.
 Viscount Palmerston  stated, that official information had been received, that an attempt had been made at Madrid to proclaim the Constitution of 1812, by a portion of the National Guard. That attempt was successfully resisted by the Queen's Government; but an order had in consequence been issued for remodelling the National Guard: that force was disembodied for a short time, in order that it might be remodelled and reformed.
 Lord Palmerston  replied, that that force was in the pay, and under the orders, of the Spanish Government. It was not for him to Say on what service it would be employed.
 Viscount Palmerston  answered, that the British force would decidedly remain neutral. It was at present acting in pursuance of the engagements of a treaty: that treaty had reference to a civil war between the Queen of Spain and her party, and Don Carlos and his party, but no reference whatever to any internal divisions between the Constitutionalists of 1812 and their opponents.
 Viscount Palmerston  remarked, that a
 1230
 Viscount Palmerston  added, that the noble Lord was quite mistaken in supposing that the marines had nothing to do with the squadron. They were attached to the squadron, and were under the command of Lord John Hay. Their service was of a character very different to that of marching to Saragossa, and taking part in political affairs there.
 Viscount Stormont  did not put the question with reference to the squadron, but to the supernumerary marines on board it. He had said nothing about vessels, but marines, who had been acting on shore, and who had nothing to do with the vessels.
 Viscount Stormont  said, some painful events had occurred at Saragossa, and he begged to know whether the force on board the British squadron was to be employed in support of the Constitution of 1812, then proclaimed?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  deprecated interfering with the constitution of the Savings' Banks without the exercise of the greatest caution. He could not consent to the introduction of the Bill, as it would excite great confusion and alarm.
 Mr. Hume  also objected to the Bill. The mere introduction of it would be productive of great evil, and, therefore, he trusted the noble Lord would not persist in his motion.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  consented to withdraw the Bill for the present Session.
 Mr. Hume  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was the intention of the Government to carry into effect any of those reforms contemplated by the late excellent Bill sent up to the other House, on the subject of the Post-office? He deeply regretted the loss of that Bill, and feared that, in consequence of its loss, many beneficial changes proposed in the constitution of the Post-office could not be carried into effect. He believed that this was the first attempt on the part of
 1270
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  deeply regretted the loss of the Post-office Bill, which, no doubt, would have been productive of much good if it had passed into a law. The failure of that measure was altogether unexpected by him. For his own part, he should not be lax in carrying into effect many alterations which, he believed, would be beneficial in the Post-office. He understood, from the nature of the law regarding the constitution of the Post-office, that the Crown was not able to carry into effect many of the changes proposed in the Bill without the sanction of the Legislature; and, therefore, many improvements could not be effected, as if the Bill had passed into a law. If the Post-office had been constituted like the stamps and some other Government departments, then many changes would at once have been made by the Crown, and he should not have hesitated in making them; but finding this to be the case, he had held it to be his duty to apply to Parliament, and he was sorry to find that he had been unsuccessful. Although, then, they should not be able to effect all that was desired, still the exertions of Government would be directed to provide various improvements in the Post-office. Certain alterations could and would be made with regard to the Post-office packets and other departments.
 Dr. Bowring  stated, that he understood, notwithstanding the arrangement that had been entered into for the transmission of English newspapers on the continent at a small postage, that the Belgian government had imposed a fiscal charge on their introduction into Belgium. He should like to hear some explanation on the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the Bill on the subject of the postage of English newspapers abroad had only received the Royal Assent a few days ago, and, therefore, the statement of his hon. Friend was, no doubt, correct; but, of course, a change would shortly take place.
 Sir James Beckett  observed, that all their Lordships' amendments in this Bill were such as to render it doubly beneficial to the people.
 Mr. Wakley  protested against the Bill, which, he said, had by no means met with due discussion in that House. It was a Bill which materially affected the rights and enjoyments of the people, and he should oppose it by every means in his power.
 Mr. Warburton  supported the Bill. Those who opposed it confounded two things essentially distinct—common fields and commons. The enclosure and improved cultivation of common fields would be a great benefit to the whole country, and in no respect infringe upon the property or rights of the people.
 Mr. Blamire  supported the Bill. So far from not having been duly considered, it had been discussed and printed over and over again. It was a most valuable Bill, in strict accordance with every principle of justice and good policy, and would be of great advantage to the labouring classes.
 Mr. Grove Price  rose to call the attention of the House to the state of affairs in Spain. He never addressed the House under so great a degree of excitement. Within the last few days events had been such—so fearful and so disastrous—that he did not wish to see the Parliament prorogued without expressing some sentiments upon this fearful prospect. The hon. Member referred to the affairs of Spain for the last few months, to show that it. was impossible to form a moderate party in Spain. There were but two parties in Spain, and it had been, and would be, impossible to form a third. He was glad that those of the Stock Exchange who had been trafficking in the distresses of the country were likely to be disappointed, for he was sure that the bonds that had been entered into would never be paid. No common responsibility rested on his Majesty's Government for the tone of triumph they had displayed on this subject. The next matter was, that there was no third estate—no House of Lords— it had no connexion with the old Cortes— it was an exotic in Spain, and would never take root in the country, even watered as it had been by so much blood. The best Government for Spain was that which would meet with the accordance of the intelligent classes. Such a Government never yet had a trial there. The Constitution of 1812, was now the Government to be set up. He rejoiced at this for one reason, namely, that those who, on the Stock Exchange of London, had been so long trafficking on the miseries of that country were likely to be dispossessed of their ill-gotten gains. If these speculators could gain but a half per cent. they cared little what sufferings they inflicted upon others. There were many who staked their all in these securities—on the credit of his Majesty's Government; and no
 1260 1261 de facto. 1262
 Captain Boldero  did not think that the British auxiliary force in Spain had sufficient strength to stem the current that was running against them. They were badly appointed, badly paid, badly fed, and badly clothed. He hoped that Lord John Hay would be directed to issue rations to the men, in order that they might not be starved. His opinion of the parties in Spain was, that Don Carlos, with the claim of legitimate right on his side, and the Queen, with the force of arms on hers, were about to be crushed by a third party that had arisen in that country. The quadruple treaty had therefore fallen to the ground. One of the conditions on which the men had entered the service of the Queen of Spain was that they might terminate their engagement at the end of the year. It, however, appeared that three month's previous notice was required. An error had, therefore, occurred; but the error was not on the part of the soldiers, but on the part of the Queen's Government, and the poor men were made to pay the penalty. The Prime Minister of the Queen of Spain had put a false construction on the treaty. He recollected that it had been said that the man who put a false construction upon a treaty was a puritanical impostor. He felt a high respect for General Evans. The valour and skill which he displayed before the lines of San Sebastian made him feel proud that he was a Briton; but what had been the result of the sacrifice of so many officers and 800 fighting men? The noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, on a former night stated that the British Marines were not under the command of the Queen of Spain. How did it happen, then, that Major Owen acted under the command of the Quartermaster-general? There was no such person
 1264
 Mr. Charles Wood  would not on that occasion go into the general question as to the right of the Admiralty to exercise such a power. His gallant Friend had stated, that it was impossible that a fair investigation could take place without having the accused and the accuser face to face. Now, it did so happen that no case could have been clearer than that of
 1254
 Mr. C. Wood  would give the gallant Admiral an answer when he brought forward his motion next Session.
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that if that House was to exercise an appellate jurisdiction in such matters, it would not be able to get through its business, even by sitting from the 1st of January till the 31st of December.
 Dr. Bowring  contended, that the constitution of 1812 was not opposed to the ancient usages of Spain. The hon. Member had referred to the conduct of a distinguished friend of his, General Mina. Now he could state that General Mina had assured him that he was not at all the cause of the death of the mother of Captain Cabrera, except having signed officially the warrant. But when the conduct of individuals was adverted to, he might be permitted to say, that although it was no argument to urge the conduct of one man against that of another, yet, if severity on the part of men told for anything, he was fully warranted in asserting that the charge told with much greater force against the adherents of Ferdinand, for, to his own
 1263
 Mr. Wilks  thought the recommendation of the Committee ought not to take effect until the next Session of Parliament.
 Mr. Wilks  thought it would be imposing a heavy burden upon the Speaker to compel him to give effect to those regulations. Independently of this objection, they should not be brought forward at that late period of the Session.
 Mr. Hume : The hon. Member for Boston was himself a party to, and approved of, the paragraph in question. It would be time enough when the House met next year to make alterations if there were anything objectionable in these resolutions.
 Mr. Hume , in pursuance of notice, called the attention of the House to the petition from the House of Assembly of Upper Canada. He first noticed the Address of the Executive Council to the Governor, Sir F. Head, and his subsequent declaration, notwithstanding the remonstrance of the House of Assembly, to act without the aid of a Council, although it was required by the 31st of George 3rd, that such a Council should be appointed, in order to assist the Governor with its advice. The House of Assembly had itself subsequently been dissolved; but whether Reformers or Tories were returned to the new House, the principle of the resolution he (Mr. Hume) intended to submit would remain unchanged. The great ground of complaint was, that no union or harmony had hitherto existed between the House of assembly and the Council; so that during the twelve years preceding the last, out of 176 Bills, only twenty-nine had been
 1257 l. l. 1258
 Mr. Hume  said, that in the course of the present Session arrangements had been made by which the duties which were performed by officers of that House in connexion with the business of Private Bill agents, were put an end to from the commencement of next Session. In the course of the inquiries of the Select Committee on the House of Commons' offices, it was found that individuals acting as Private Bill agents had not fulfilled the engagements of the House by paying the fees on different Bills. It appeared advisable to the Committee that the present system should be altered; but nothing was farther from the wish of the Committee than to establish anything like a
 1255
 Mr. Hume  highly approved of the course adopted by the gallant Admiral. It was an improper exercise of the prerogative of the Crown to deprive any officer of his commission without trial.
 Mr. Borthwick  thought that the question was not whether Don Carlos or the Queen had the better right to the throne. Whoever was ruler  de facto
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  entirely approved of the course taken by the hon. Member for Middlesex. He was quite sure the House would have perfect confidence in leaving the matter in the hands of the Speaker, to consider what regulations should be imposed upon the
 1256
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not agree with the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Wilks) that these regulations were not to take effect until the next Session of Parliament. If they were not now adopted, and acted upon, parties applying for Bills might very fairly say. that they were legislating  ex post facto
 Mr. Wakley  said, that one great evil of this system of private investigation was, that the public were deprived of all means of judging whether the decision had been, right or wrong.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that the hon. Secretary had made a statement of the facts of the case. Why, then, should he oppose the production of the papers on which that statement was founded? He wished to know whether the hon. Secretary would oppose the production of the papers in the cases of those petitioners whose petitions he (Sir E. Codrington) had lately presented to the House?
 Sir Edward Codrington  presented a petition from a Mr. Edwards, complaining that a deceased brother of his, a Captain Edwards, had been struck off the half-pay list in consequence of his refusing to pay a debt of 72 l. l.
 Sir George Grey  was sure, that even the hon. Mover would not expect him to go at large into this important subject when the House was within a few days of a prorogation, and when not more than about forty Members were present. The resolution of the hon. Member went to alter most materially the Constitution of Upper Canada, and no doubt many were absent who, at another period, would have been anxious to take part in the discussion. He would, however, make a few remarks, principally injustice to Sir Francis Head. First, he would mention, as Sir Francis Head had himself stated, that he had no power to alter the Executive Council in the mode required by the House of Assembly. The Constitution of that body, as well as of the Legislative Assembly, was at this moment under the consideration of Commissioners, and he apprehended, that before this House expressed any opinion it would wait for their Report. In the dissolution of the House of Assembly Sir Francis Head had taken the course the law pointed out when that body had refused the supplies, and when the Governor, from the addresses he received, had reason to think, that it did not represent the sentiments of the majority of the people. The result of the elections had confirmed him in the propriety of the course, for although the new House of Assembly had not met to record its opinions, the individuals composing it were, in many instances, different from those who had formerly been returned. As to the charge that undue means had been resorted to by Sir Francis Head to influence the elections, he (Sir G. Grey) had no information which enabled him to deny it, excepting that such a proceeding was directly contrary to the instructions of the Governor, which were upon the table, and to which Sir Francis Head had always professed most strictly to adhere. A comparison of dates would show, that the hon. Member was mistaken in the accusation he had made, founded upon Sir Francis Head's declaration with respect to Orange lodges. He was not
 1259
 Sir John Elley  lamented that the noble Lord should have taken that latitude of language as to attribute to Members on the opposition side of the House, particular motives for their conduct. He denied  in toto 1269
 Viscount Palmerston : The hon. and gallant Gentleman had asked for information respecting certain communications which he supposed to have passed between General Evans and the inhabitants of San Sebastian. He was really unable to give the hon. and gallant Gentleman any information on the subject. General Evans was an officer in the Spanish service, his communications were made to his own Government, and he was wholly unable to state their nature or effect.
 Viscount Palmerston : It is not unnatural that the hon. Member for Sandwich, who takes so lively an interest in the affairs of Spain, should take an opportunity, at the close of the Session, again to record the opinions which he entertains, both of the merits of the respective contending parties, and of the probability of success on the one side and on the other, and I am not aware that in the observations made by the hon. Member, there really was much to call for any reply on my part. The hon. Member has repeated the opinions which he is well known to entertain; he has repeated the predictions which he has already made. With regard to his opinions, they are no doubt founded in such sincerity on his part, that, however I may differ from them, I feel they are entitled to respect. With regard to his predictions, they will be judged of by events, as his former predictions have been judged by, and by those events the hon. Gentleman is no doubt prepared to abide. I say, then, that the hon. Gentleman will not expect me to follow him into a discussion of the merits of either the claims of Don Carlos, which we do not admit, because the Spanish nation do not admit them, or the merits of the royal statute, of which, as far as a stranger of Spain may form an opinion, was an approximation to a good form of government in that country. Neither will he require me to discuss with him the merits or demerits of the Constitution of 1812, which also, if I may venture to express an opinion, does not seem to me a form of government which could be practically carried into execution, and which, even if it were established for a moment by the general concurrence of the nation, yet for the sake of permanent tranquillity, it. would be indispensable to make in that constitution great and fundamental alterations. But these are questions which concern Spain and Spaniards, and which we are not called upon to decide. I most sincerely wish and hope, that the Spanish nation may acquire free institutions. What the particular form of whose constitution shall be, it remains for them to decide. But judging, as the hon. Member wishes us to judge, from the lessons of history, and from the experience of former ages, and judging also from those general principles which one is in the habit of applying to human affairs, I
 1265 1266 1267 1268
 Mr. Wakley  objected to the amendments being taken into consideration, as they had not been printed, and suggested that they should be postponed till Friday. So far as he had read the amendments, he thought them decided improvements to the Bill, but he was anxious to consider them more carefully.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that if hon. Members were ignorant of the nature of the amendments, the best way to acquire a knowledge of them, was to proceed to consider them.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that the Lords' amendments made the Bill much more popular than before.
 Mr. A. Trevor  opposed the third reading, on the ground that the measure went to disfranchise a great portion of the poorer class of voters, and moved, as an amendment, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the effect of such a clause would be to weaken the general provisions of the Bill, which already, in the most effectual manner, provided against such practices on the part of Government.
 Mr. A. Trevor  supported the clause.
 Mr. A. Trevor  next moved the omission from the 5th Clause, as we understood, of certain words, the effect of which was to render voters guilty of bribery for ever incapable of holding office, place, or emolument under the Crown. He did not think that the punishment ought to be rendered perpetual.
 Sir F. Trench  seconded the motion.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the order made no distinction.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he had stated before, in answer to a question from the hon. Member for Cockermouth, that a measure was in contemplation, which he hoped to be able to introduce next Session. The report to which the hon. Gentleman referred, though a very able document, did not go into the whole of the subject.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that an hon. Member had placed a notice on the books for an address to his Majesty, intreating the Royal clemency to those Convicts who had been transported to New South Wales, in 1831, from Hampshire, and the south of England, for the offences of machine-breaking, fire-raising, rioting, &c. It would be quite unnecessary for him to enter into the question of the propriety of that address, as he had received a letter from the Under-Secretary of the Colonies, in reply to one addressed to that hon. Gentleman on the subject, which he hoped would be satisfactory. In this letter, the Under-Secretary stated, in reply to a letter of the 1st of August, respecting the free pardon which his Majesty had been pleased to grant to 246 persons, convicts in New South Wales:—"I am directed by Lord Glenelg, to acquaint you, that Governor Arthur has done this, except in the case of ten indi-
 1274
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the subject was under consideration, and he hoped to be able to bring forward a measure on the subject in the course of next Session. He had had it in contemplation last year to appropriate the prison of Dartmoor as a receptacle for juvenile offenders. The opinion of two of the inspectors of prisons was, that it might be fitted up for that purpose; but when plans of the alterations came to be made out, both the inspectors, as well as an architect who was sent down to survey the building, were of opinion that it was not advisable to lay out any sum of money upon it, as it could not be kept in repair. He had caused inquiry to
 1273
 Lord J. Russell  replied that his attention was particularly directed to that part of the subject. The hon. Member, however, must be sensible of the difficulty of framing a measure for such a purpose which should not run counter to the feelings of the country respecting the administration of justice.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he would take
 1272
 Mr. C. Barclay  begged to suggest the expediency of granting to his majesty some power of summary punishment in the case of juvenile offenders.
 Mr. Wilks  presented a petition from the parish of Chatteris, in the Isle of Ely, against the present system of Church-rates,
 Mr. Hume  took this opportunity of asking the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether Government had any measures in preparation for the purpose of promoting the reformation of juvenile offenders, as had been announced at an early part of the present Session?
 Mr. Hume  asked, if all who were transported to New South Wales at the time for the offences mentioned, were to have the benefit of the pardon?
 Mr. Lennard  asked, if it was the intention of Government to introduce any measure for the purpose of giving effect to the recommendations contained in the Report of the Commissioners on the Criminal Law, which had been for some time on the table of the House?
 Sir G. Strickland  was of opinion that the Bill ought to be rejected.
 Lord J. Russell  was understood to answer, that he could not prepare a Bill for that object before he received the Report of the Commissioners relative to that particular Corporation.
 Lord John Russell  did not think that it was his duty at present to state the nature of the measure which he should have to submit to the House on this subject. That was the only answer he could give to the hon. Gentleman's question.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the differences which had arisen between the two Houses, with respect to this Bill, were not differences with regard to the principle of allowing counsel to prisoners in cases of felony. This was a very great and important principle, for urging which, and persevering in urging it, on many oc-
 1324 1325
 Lord John Russell  said, that very considerable alterations had been made in the Bill. The House of Lords had struck out the clause which limited the time for keeping the poll open to one day, which was one of the main points of the Bill. He did not apprehend that any great advantage would be derived from the Bill as it stood at present, but he was willing to profit by any good the other House chose to consent to, and he would therefore move that the House agree to the Lords' amendments.
 Mr. Harvey , on the first Order of the Day being moved, rose to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, which he hoped would receive an answer from the noble Lord. It was upon a subject of growing interest and importance, upon which some recent explanation had been given — he meant Church-rates. The feelings which the Dissenters entertained on this important subject would be best illustrated by read-
 1323
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the petition was completely  ex parte
 Mr. G. F. Young  thought the course taken by the hon. Member for Middlesex
 1322
 Mr. Warburton  looked upon the petitioner as representing the opinions of a large number of the people of Canada. If the facts contained in the petition were true, they ought to be investigated. He would not go the length of saying that Sir F. Head was incapable of being guilty of the charges brought against him, but those charges ought to be inquired into, and if Sir F. Head were guilty, he certainly would deserve to be impeached.
 Mr. Freshfield : Sir, I agree with my hon. and learned Friend and Colleague, that some of the alterations made in the
 1326 1327 Nisi Prius 1328
 Mr. Wilks  begged to ask whether the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had yet been able to consider the state of the Corporation of the City of London, and to determine on any measure for its reformation? All the other corporate bodies in England of any importance had been reformed by the Act passed last Session; but the great and giant abuse of the Metropolitan Corporation remained unaffected by that measure.
 Mr. Hume  believed the charges in a great measure true, though not to the extent stated in the petition. He could not be satisfied with an inquiry by any subordinate tribunal, under the circumstances in which the colony of Upper Canada was placed.
 Mr. Hume  presented a Petition from Mr. Charles Duncombe, Member for Oxford, Upper Canada, in the newly-elected Assembly, transmitted to him on that morning by the petitioner, who had come to this country to represent to his Majesty and the House the dreadful state of affairs in the colony. If the statements made in the Petition could be substantiated, as he believed they could be, it was impossible that Government could allow Sir Francis Head any longer to retain the office of Lieutenant-Governor in Upper Canada. The petition complained of unconstitutional outrages on the electors, sanctioned by Sir F. Head, and those under his immediate control, for the purpose of obtaining a majority in the new House of Assembly. It complained of the new patent votes created by Mr. Ritchie, Government agent for the sale of land, who had given grants of land gratis
 1320
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  hoped that the noble Lord would not consent to receive this Bill. They had sent up a Bill for one purpose, and the Bill, as it had been sent back, effected a very different purpose. The alterations made by the Lords would render the county elections more expensive than before.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that the effect of the Bill would be to shorten the duration of elections.
 Mr. Ewart  reminded the House that the Report of the Commissioners strongly recommended that the prisoner should be allowed the last word. The reasons stated by the Lords for insisting on their amendments were most inconsistent. Although he considered it of the highest importance that the prisoner should have the last word, yet, as there were many valuable principles in this Bill, he would be sorry to reject it. He could, however, assure the House that he would not fail to press the principle of allowing the prisoner to have the last word, in a future Session of Parliament.
 Mr. Mackinnon  wished to ask the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether the statements which had appeared in the morning papers were correct, that the Queen of Spain had been forced by a military insurrection in Madrid to swear, or to declare, her allegiance to the Constitution established in 1812, whereby the Chambers of Peers and of Deputies were abolished, and the Cortes were established? He begged leave to ask whether, in case those statements were correct, the noble
 1331
 Sir George Grey  begged the House to consider on what foundation the charges rested which the hon. Member wished to be investigated. Sir Francis Head had dissolved the Assembly of Upper Canada, in consequence of its refusal to grant the means of carrying on the Government. The result of this appeal to the people was, that a majority of Members had been returned to the new Assembly differing in opinion from the majority of the late House. A gentleman, avowing himself to be a member of the defeated party, though himself a successful candidate, immediately after a contested election, which the House knew was always conducted with circumstances of acrimony which it would be better to suppress, smarting under the consciousness that his party had been beaten, came forward and made allegations respecting the conduct of the Lieutenant-Governor and other authorities in creating illegal votes, and exercising im-
 1321
 The Solicitor-General  moved, that the House agree to the Amendments made by the Lords in this Bill.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that he had that morning received a despatch from Mr. Aston, our Chargé d' Affaires at Paris, informing him that a telegraphic message had arrived at Paris from Bayonne, announcing that the Queen-Regent of Spain had accepted the Constitution of 1812. Telegraphic despatches, as the hon. Gentleman well knew, were very concise, and thus he had nothing further to communicate.
 Lord John Russell  thought that the hon. Member for Middlesex ought to state whether he meant to conclude with a motion. If he meant to make a motion for any return, his proceeding would be perfectly regular, but it was not fair to make a long statement without bringing forward a motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was his intention to move, that there be laid on the table a return of the number of days and hours during which the House had been occupied with business—a document which seemed to him to be extremely important, when he thought of what had taken place elsewhere. At the commencement of the Session great hopes of reforms and ameliorations were held out to the people, but the House was now about to rise, and those expectations were damped, those hopes were blighted, by a party who had done nothing but impede the progress of improvement during the whole Session, disappoint the wishes of the people, and frustrate the efforts of the Ministry. It appeared to him that if impudence itself could be personified, such a charge as had been made against that House by an individual elsewhere would admirably represent it. He did, on behalf of that House, appeal to their constituents for the falsity of the libel which had been uttered against the House, when they were charged with having neglected their duty,
 1338 1339 1340 1341 1342 l 1343
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Gentleman was so much in the habit of associating with those who libelled others, that the hon. Gentleman could not suppose that he could rise without intending to utter a libel himself. The hon. Gentleman had no right to interrupt a Member of the House, and had no right to ask if he (Mr. Hume) were going to make any motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Speaker had no right to interrupt him. If he should sit down without making a motion, the Speaker might complain that it was a breach of the rules of the House, but it would be time enough to consider that when he had concluded the observations which he had to make.
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that he was extremely unwilling that the House should separate without some observations from him as to the view he took of the situation in which they had been placed by the extraordinary proceedings which had occurred in the other House of Parliament. He could not but reflect on the many tedious hours which they had spent in that House on the many important measures which they had endeavoured to pass with the view of effecting reform in the various establishments of the country, and realising the expectations of improvement in its institutions which their constituents were warranted in entertaining from the passing of the Reform Act. He was mortified to see that two Sessions of the second reformed Parliament had elapsed with scarcely one tenth of the benefits to the people which they had a right to expect, according to the fair promises made to them. When reform of Parliament was granted, either it was intended that beneficial results should be attained, or those who were parties to the passing of the measure were guilty of abusing the confidence of the people, and holding out to them hopes which they never meant to fulfil.
 Sir F. Trench  rose to order. He supposed that the hon. Member intended to utter one of his usual libels against the House of Lords. He wished to know whether the hon. Member was about to make any motion, as otherwise the pro-
 1337
 Sir F. Trench  would appeal to the Speaker whether the hon. Member were not out of order?
