 Mr. Villiers Stuart  rose to second the motion; however difficult he might find the performance of the task, it never could be otherwise than a grateful one to urge upon that House the propriety of acknowledging its thanks to the King for the personal interest which he took in the affairs of the country, and which had that clay been so conspicuously manifested in the gracious Speech which they had heard from the Throne. Looking at the many important questions that called for immediate settlement, he recognised in this early assembling of the great Council of the nation an earnest desire on the part of his Majesty to bring these questions under the consideration of his Parliament, with a view to their speedy and satisfactory adjustment. To that branch of the Legislature it must be matter of much satisfaction to receive from his Majesty the assurance he had that day given of the anxiety that existed on the part of his Allies to maintain those relations of amity which at present existed between them and ourselves, and also that the peace at present happily existing was likely to be permanent. These assurances must necessarily be satisfactory to the House of Commons, because, whilst they proved that his Majesty looked to peace for the continuance of the national prosperity at home, the anxiety of his Allies to maintain their amicable relations with this country was a further proof that that peace had not been obtained at a sacrifice of honour or breach of compact. In the general peace of Europe there was unfortunately one exception—Spain. He felt
 26 27 28
 Mr. Beaumont  said, that though un-
 40 pro forma 41
 Mr. Curteis , as an independent supporter of his Majesty's Government, begged particularly to remark, that the speech of the hon. Member for Bath did not receive a single cheer from any person in the House when he made his attack upon the Government. He wished that fact to be proclaimed abroad, that the nation might know that the sentiments of that House were not in accordance with the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Bath, any more than those opinions were in unison with the sentiments entertained by the nation at large. He was bound to say, and he said it boldly, because he did not seek a favour from that or from any Government, that he considered himself and the nation at large under very great obligations to his Majesty's present Government. He should not have intruded himself upon the atten-
 43
 Lord John Russell  supposed the letter of the Lord Chancellor and the letter of Mr. Charlton would appear on the votes of the House to-morrow, in order that the subject might be properly taken into consideration. He quite agreed as to the propriety of the course proposed by the right hon. Baronet, and he would beg leave to add to the motion that the letters be printed, that they be taken into consideration to-morrow. In making that motion he begged it to be understood that he did not raise he question put forward by the hon. Member for Bath.
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  rose for the purpose of moving the adoption of an Address to his Majesty in answer to the gracious Speech which they had just heard read. He felt the greatest difficulty in undertaking this duty, as he had for some time been suffering under severe indisposition, and even at that moment continued to feel its effects to an extent which would in a great degree incapacitate him from doing justice to the subject. He trusted, however, that the House would extend to him that forbearance and indulgence which he had seen so many times accorded to other Members under similar circumstances; and in order to merit that indulgence he would endeavour to be as brief as possible in fulfilling that duty which fell upon him of
 22 23 24 25
 Dr. Bowring  fully agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex, that instead of opposition his Majesty's Ministers were deserving of the honest support of every Member who wished well to the principles of good government and the cause of humanity. He was one who approved of a close union of interests between France and this country, as the means best calculated to preserve the peace of Europe; but he regretted to say, that the Government of France had not behaved as it ought towards foreign nations in their struggle for liberty. He need only refer to the conduct of France towards the Swiss cantons. He regretted that there was no allusion to this subject in the speech that had that day been delivered from the Throne, because he was anxious to know whether or no the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had been a party to the note that had been sent by
 48 49 50
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that as a silent vote upon the Address might be construed into a general approbation of the conduct and principles of his Majesty's Ministers, he wished to save himself from that misconstruction by stating what were the pressing circumstances that compelled him to give
 29 30 31 32 33 34 in statu quo; 35 36 37 38 39
 Mr. Roebuck  remarked, that the hon. Member stated in his letter that he had been stopped on his way to the House; he wished to know in what manner the hon. Member had been stopped; for if the hon. Member had not been taken into custody on his way to the House, he could not properly be said to have been stopped.
 Mr. Hume  did not know if any Gentleman intended to make any motion on this subject. He wished to have properly ascertained what were the grounds of the impediment of which Mr. Charlton complained, and when this was regularly before the House, the House would be in a condition to state its opinion. What he wished to know was, whether any Member was prepared to bring forward a motion on the subject in such a manner as would bring it fairly under consideration.
 Mr. Hume  said he would endeavour to bring back the House to the question really before it, the Address in reply to the speech from the throne. In the speech of the hon. Member for Bath, there was much which was true. The hon. Member was very sanguine in his views, in all of which he (Mr. H.) could not go along with him, though he agreed with him on several points. It was the duty of the House, however, to look at the speech, and to agree to the address, either entirely, in part, or not at all. Some persons said they could draw no distinction between the Whigs and the Tories; he, however, could draw a very great one, and for the very best reason—that many reforms which, after many years of struggling, had been refused by the Tories they had got from the Whigs. He agreed that they had not got all they could desire, but they had obtained much, and he would therefore press the present Ministers forward, to use a common but strong expression, he would pat them on the back and urge them on. He believed, that he spoke the sentiments of a very large body of the
 45 46 History of India 47
 Mr. Gisborne  merely rose for the purpose of stating that there was a single passage in his Majesty's Speech which had occasioned him considerable distrust—it was that relating to Joint-stock Banks. He must say, that he thought this a small matter on which a recommendation should be delivered from the Throne, and if it were not impertinent in him to form conjectures as to the authors of the different paragraphs, he should be inclined to attribute the passage in question to the pen of his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade. For a free trade philosopher his right hon. Friend was the greatest regulator he ever knew. He first tried to regulate railways, but they proved too strong for him. Now he tried to regulate Joint-stock Banks. He could not allow this paragraph in the Speech to pass without stating his opinion that it wore a suspicious aspect. He did not think that any persons could be told with advantage how they were to conduct their banking business. He never knew any case in which regulations of this description did not injure the parties whom they professed to protect. He had no intention of moving an amendment, but he distrusted the expressions employed, and he should watch with the utmost wariness any measures which might be introduced in reference to the subject.
 Mr. James  was not of opinion with the hon. Member for Bath that the Whigs were worse than the Tories. The hon. Member said, that the Whigs would not give us the ballot, and therefore that they were worse than the Tories. But he should like to know whether the Tories would give the voter the protection of the ballot? The fact was, that the Whigs were placed in very great difficulties during the last Session of Parliament, and not the least of those difficulties arose from the obstinacy of men who ought to have been among their warmest supporters. He did not, with reference to the notice of motion given by the hon. Baronet, the Member for East Cornwall, believe that there was any wish for an organic change by the people of England, which would lead to the destruction of the other House of Parliament, and for his part he entertained no such wish; but it was his desire to reform that body by modifying their hereditary privileges. The Lords ought to be elected by, and be responsible to, at least some portion of the people, for good legislation was most likely to be ensured when they who had the making of laws were aware that they would have to render an account to others of what they had done. He believed that there existed a desire on the part of the people of this country to secure a system by which laws might be well, fairly, and impartially considered before they were made, and that measures might not be disposed of, not with a reference to their own merits, but under the influence of a paltry and petty spite against the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny. He did not believe that the people of this country wished to deprive the House of Lords of their honours or their titles, their stars or their garters. But if they would not legislate wisely, they would endeavour to break their power. The Lords might as well give way
 42
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that the best course the House could pursue was to have the letters printed, for the purpose of
 21
 Sir Robert Peel : I think I am justified in inferring that it was the intention of his Majesty's Speech, or rather of the ad-
 51 52 53 54 55 56
 Viscount Palmerston : I shall certainly so far follow the example of the right hon. Baronet as not to trespass upon the attention of the House for above a very few minutes. I am bound, in the first place, to say, that the interpretation which the right hon. Baronet has given of that part of the address which relates to our foreign relations is perfectly warranted, and consistent with the intentions of those who proposed it. But as, in agreeing to the address on the grounds which the right hon. Baronet has stated, and which I am ready to say are most honourable to himself, he is not pledged on those questions to which he has alluded, it will be perfectly open to him at any future period to impugn the foreign policy of his Majesty's Government. If I had any remark to make upon what has fallen from the right hon. Baronet, it would be,
 57 58
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to ask one question of the noble Lord before the subject dropped. When the Committee of Privileges was appointed, Mr. Charlton, of course, would wish to appear before it to
 65
 Lord John Russell  did not understand that the order for the appointment of the Committee would give any protection to Mr. Charlton. If the House chose to interfere in favour of that Gentleman to prevent his being committed or arrested as he went to or came from the Committee, a subsequent and distinct order of the House would be necessary for that purpose. For his own part he did not see that it would be necessary to take such a step in the first instance. Mr. Charlton was not yet in custody. If, before the inquiry terminated, he should be arrested, it might then be necessary for the House to make some such order as was made in the case of Mr. Long Wellesley, by which he might be brought before the Committee, and enabled to make his defence.
 Mr. Grove Price , in order to guard against a supposed acquiescence in that part of his Majesty's Speech which related to foreign affairs, wished to state that he continued to hold the same opinions as those he had declared in the last Session of Parliament with respect to the impolicy of the interference of this country in the domestic affairs of Spain. It was not his intention, however, to offer any opposition to the Address which had just been read, but he begged it to be distinctly understood that in yielding a tacit consent to the opinions therein staled, he reserved to himself a full right, when the question was brought forward in a more tangible
 66
 Sir George Clerk  could not avoid expressing his disapprobation, as a Scotch representative, that among the various topics mentioned in the King's speech, no allusion was made or information given upon a subject which had for some time past excited the deepest interest throughout Scotland: he referred to the result of the Commission appointed two years ago to inquire into the means of religious instruction in that country. As far as he knew from common rumour, the Commissioners had completed their labours; and, respecting a subject of such importance as that of ascertaining whether there was any deficiency in the means of religious instruction in so important a part of the empire as Scotland, he could have wished that some notice had been taken in his Majesty's speech. He thought the Ministers ought to have afforded information to Parliament as to whether they had received any Report from the Commissioners, and if so, whether it was their intention at an early period to call the attention of the House to it. This was no party question, but was interesting to every Member of that part of the empire to which the inquiry related. He therefore hoped the noble Lord would be able to give the House some satisfactory explanation on the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell remarked , that hon. Gentlemen seemed to have overlooked a very important view of the question. It was in evidence before several Committees of the House that property and character might be alike assailed, as in his own case, by witnesses examined before Committees, while, as it at present stood, the law afforded no remedy whatever to the injured party. The witness enjoyed the utmost impunity; and the vilest character might be imputed to a man, and the falsest representations of him made; yet there existed no legal punishment for what was an undoubted crime. The course pursued in Committees of the House of Lords was very different. There the depositions were taken on oath; and an obvious remedy was thus afforded, for which in that House there existed no remedy at all. A power should be granted to proceed in such cases for misdemeanour against the party who wilfully and corruptly mis-stated facts; and the remedy which the criminal law permits should not be excluded from proceedings before a Committee of the House of Commons.
 Mr. O'Connell .—You are provided with the means of contradicting what the witness states. But take the case where witnesses contradict each other, or have come from distant parts of the country, and returned to their respective homes. In such a case, what remedy do you possess? I shall make the experiment of attempting to discover one, now that I have spoken of the subject.
 Lord John Russell , with respect to the observation that had fallen from the hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Plumptre) must say, that he so far differed from him,
 69 70
 Lord John Russell  was not aware that any inconvenience had ever resulted from the manner in which the Committee was constituted.
 Lord John Russell , previous to moving the Order of the Day for taking into consideration the letters received yesterday by the Speaker from the Lord Chancellor and Mr. Lechmere Charlton, begged to call the attention of the House to the propriety of appointing at the commencement of the Session a Committee of privileges in the same way as it used to do formerly. For the last two or three years no Committee of this kind had been appointed, in consequence, as he believed, of its having a clerk attached to it with a regular salary, which, in the absence of any immediate question for the consideration of such a Committee, ap-
 62
 Lord John Russell  said, that notwithstanding the arguments of the hon. Gentleman, he still doubted the prudence of dispensing with a Member's Order, which, in his opinion, afforded some guarantee for the respectability of the person admitted. There were, in his opinion, great objections to the proposition of the hon. Member for Liverpool, as on all great occasions the gallery would be crowded to excess, and among the respectable individuals there might be many pickpockets. He had all along considered that admission by means of fees was objectionable, and for that reason he had enrolled himself among those who were in favour of its abolition. But, until some better ground than that stated by the hon. Member for Liverpool was brought forward, he thought things ought to remain as they now were.
 Mr. Charles Buller  still retained the opinion which he had expressed during the last Session—that the most effectual plan for the abatement of this nuisance would be to prevent altogether the correction of evidence. The only ground, as he understood, upon which the practice of permitting witnesses to revise their testimony could be for a moment justified, was the propriety of affording to persons examined before Committees the opportunity of correcting sentences hastily and unguardedly uttered. The plan which he would propose was to withhold altogether from witnesses the opportunity of making these corrections; and whenever an unguarded word was let fall, allowance would be made for the imperfection of unstudied style. If a different rule were adopted from that which he had the honour to propose, the Chairmen of Committees would of necessity be placed in circumstances of great difficulty. During the past Session it was determined by a Committee, of which he was a member, that no witness should be permitted to revise his evidence before it had been printed. The evidence was accordingly printed and sent to the witnesses for the purpose of revision. One witness, in performing this task, so far from confining himself to matters of style, altered almost every sentence, a process by which the meaning was in many instances materially changed. He (Mr. Buller) was consequently obliged to read from beginning to end of the witness's testimony, for the purpose of ascer-
 75
 Mr. Maclean  did not intend at that moment to express any opinion as to the policy or impolicy of the treaty entered into with the Queen of Spain. Upon that subject he reserved to himself the right of expressing a full and candid opinion upon some subsequent occasion. His object in rising then was to prevent any misapprehension of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) upon the subject last evening. He (Mr. Maclean) agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the co-operation of the British force could not be objected to if that co-operation were such as had been guaranteed by the treaty into which the Government of this country had entered with the Government of the Queen of Spain. He (Mr. Maclean), however, was of opinion that when the question came to be fully investigated, as it ought to be, it would be found that the co-operation, if such it could be called—or the intervention, if such it had been—or the trans-limitation, if that were to be taken as the proper term for it—had not been such as was guaranteed by the treaty, and that the aid afforded to the Queen of Spain was such as might place this country in a dangerous position. When the proper documents were laid upon the table he thought there would be no difficulty in proving that the co-operation alluded to in the Address, instead of being within the words or spirit of the treaty, was directly opposed to both.
 Mr. Maclean  had not mistaken the right hon. Baronet's meaning himself, but he believed others had done so, and he therefore took the opportunity of mentioning it, in order that the misapprehension might not extend further.
 Mr. A. Sanford  brought up the Report on the Address.
 Mr. Twiss  could not concur with the noble Lord in the opinion that such mention of the Deity would be inexpedient. The solemn nomination of Divine Providence in the initiative Act of so high a legislative body, while it would derive weight and dignity from the importance of the occasion, on the one hand, would, on the other, exhibit a remarkable fitness to the peculiar circumstances in which, by the interposition of Providence, the inhabitants of these countries were placed. There were some occasions upon which acts which might otherwise be deemed merely formal, were especially proper, and peculiarly becoming. National calamities, in the shape of epidemic disease, were undeniably of this description, and the solemn mention of the Divine name in a solemn Parliamentary document would, he repeated, be suitable to the principles pervading a Christian country, and befitting the national character. Another reason in support of his view, was the fact that a reform or measure of some description respecting the Established Church of this country was hinted at in the course of the Speech which had been read to them on the preceding day. Anxious to preserve that church unimpaired, he was equally anxious for the maintenance and diffusion of religious sentiments; and it certainly appeared to him not too much to expect that the expressions of loyalty and affection addressed to the Head of that Church should be coupled with the name of Divine Providence.
 The Speaker : The subject to which the right hon. Baronet has now alluded, had engaged much of my attention; and, if he had not now brought it forward, I should have felt it to be my duty, on the first appointment of a Select Committee, to have stated to the House the evils arising from the indulgence given to witnesses in correcting their evidence. I have stated this, in order that the House may not suppose that I had been indifferent to so important a matter. The practice of allowing witnesses to revise their evidence leads to a great delay in printing, and, consequently, in the circulation of reports and evidence. This delay has led to many and just complaints, and during the two Sessions in which I have had the honour to sit in this chair, I have done all that was in my power, by communication with the Chairmen of Committees, to point out the necessity of reverting to a more correct practice. The extent to which witnesses have carried the alterations which they have made upon receiving their evidence, are such as appear to me to be quite indefensible. I shall refer to one case, in which a witness not only altered the answers he had given before the Committee, but he actually inserted questions to elicit answers illustrative of his own views. I have been assured that the statement which I now make is correct. In another case a witness lost the copy of his evidence, which had been sent to him for revision, and the report has now been printed, omitting altogether the evidence which he had given before the Committee. It must be obvious, that when alterations to so great and almost unlimited an extent are made in the evidence of witnesses, and without being brought under the consideration of the Committee, the opportunity of requiring and receiving explanations, by means of examination as to the new matter in-
 74
 Dr. Bowring  instanced a case of gross ignorance on the part of a shorthand-writer employed to take the evidence at a Committee upon East-India affairs. A witness speaking of the silk worm mentioned it by the scientific name "bombyx;" and when the evidence had been printed, the shorthand-writer was found to have described it as "all bombast." He thought that the witnesses should be allowed to read and correct their testimony under the surveillance of the Chairman.
 Mr. Plumptre  hoped he should not be deemed out of order in adverting to what he considered to be an omission in the King's speech, inasmuch as no allusion was made to the prevailing epidemic, nor any recognition of the Divine Providence. Since the House last met, the country had been visited with more than one extremely severe affliction, upon which the King's speech was totally silent. Surely some reference ought to have been made to this subject, and to the will of the great Disposer of all events, the great Dispenser of national prosperity. He believed that at no time, in no nation, though plunged in the deepest ignorance, had an occasion
 68
 Mr. Hume  would not press his objection, as the general feeling of the House appeared to be against him; but he begged to observe that he was far from being convinced of the impropriety of his suggestion.
 Mr. Hume , in moving that a Select Committee be appointed for the purpose of selecting, arranging, and regulating the printing all Parliamentary documents, said, he was quite aware that a great many questions respecting the distribution of these papers to the public had been brought before the Committee of last Session. An arrangement had been, in consequence, effected, which had given much satisfaction to the public, and conduced to the general convenience of all the parties concerned. He had no hesitation in further observing, that
 71
 Mr. Hume  would propose, that every Member of the House of Commons should, on the next morning after the examination of a witness, receive a copy of the evidence, literally as it had been given. Each individual member would thus be a check on the Chairman, and this proposition (if acceded to) would have the effect of obviating the great mistakes which the shorthand-writers were in the habit of committing.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion, that if the evidence were printed exactly in the form in which it was taken down, the Chairman of the Committee would be able to judge in a moment whether the alterations introduced by the witness were merely verbal. It had fallen to his lot to find question and answer both so altered, as to involve a complete change of meaning.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know why any distinction should be made between gentlemen of the long robe and any other members of the House? Upon the questions coming before a committee of the description these were, he thought many gentlemen in the House unconnected with the legal profession quite as competent to form a correct opinion as any who had arrived at the dignity of the wig and gown. Why, too, should an exception be made in favor of the knights of the shire? He thought that the Committee, instead of being composed of such a host of members, which could tend only to protract and confuse its proceedings, should consist of a certain given number, say twenty-one, whose qualification should not depend either upon their being knights of the shire or gentlemen of the long robe.
 Mr. Potter  suggested, that the gallery should be open until seven o'clock for the admission of persons having Members' orders, and that after that hour it should be open to the public in the way the hon. Member wished.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  deprecated the very improper use which had been repeatedly made by witnesses, of the privilege which was generally extended to them, of correcting their evidence. While, however, he fully concurred with the hon. Gentlemen who preceded him in reprobating these unjustifiable practices, he thought that the safest and most efficacious remedy would be found in the exercise of a vigilant control by the Chairmen of Committees. No hon. Gentleman could have had more numerous occasions of witnessing these improprieties than himself. Mistakes sometimes crept into the short-hand writer's notes; and in that case a correction was necessary; but this by no means implied the legitimacy of the extent to which witnesses frequently carried their alterations. The evil might be satisfactorily remedied by a little vigilance on the part of Chairmen. For his part, he had suffered from the inconvenience of evidence being thus altered at will; and had occasion, in one instance, to report to the House where the witness answered a question originally in the affirmative, and subsequently in the negative. Correction was in some instances undoubtedly necessary; but the Clerk of the Minutes, in submitting them to the consideration of the Chairman, should be bound to call the Chairman's attention to every correction introduced by the witness. The fact of the minutes
 76
 Mr. Ewart  remarked, that no alteration was ever permitted to be introduced into the notes of evidence taken in the courts of law; and that, as Committees of the House exerted a similar capacity to that of the courts of law, they should follow in this respect the example of the latter.
 Mr. Ewart  wished to know how the noble Lord, by the present system, would prevent pickpockets from entering the gallery of the House. It was notorious that Members gave their orders to any person that asked them, even to some of the porters in the streets.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the Admission of Strangers. The only reason that he knew of, why a Member's Order was requisite, for the admission of persons into the strangers' gallery, was, that it was supposed to be some guarantee for the respectability of the individuals admitted. Now he (Mr. Ewart) believed that a Member granted an order at the request of any individual, especially if that individual was one of his constituents. It was, therefore, in fact no guarantee at all; because the character or avocation of the individual seeking the order for admission was never inquired into. Another reason in justification of this impediment was said to be, that on all important occasions the gallery would be inconveniently crowded. Now, he did not think that a good argument, seeing that the same objection would apply to the present system; for there were six hundred and fifty-eight Members of that House, and it was very well known that the gallery would not contain more than two hundred individuals. Besides, if it became crowded, the officers would have directions to prevent the inconvenience, and Members at present were as much besieged on their way to the House as the doors of the gallery would then be. At present the
 59
 Mr. Ward  rose to move, that in every instance where five Members required it, the mode of taking divisions at present adopted in the House should be extended to divisions in Committee. At present the House possessed no records of the divisions that took place in Committee, yet they were often as important as those that took place in the House. It would, therefore, be highly desirable that they should be registered in the votes.
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, with reference to a previous remark of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he knew of only one case in which a witness had been permitted to carry the copy of his evidence home.
 Sir Robert Inglis  remarked, that if every member were thus furnished with an incorrect copy of the evidence, the errors which each copy contained would become immortalized.
 Sir Robert Peel .—A great deal might be urged in favour of the position of hon. Members, who hold that no alteration whatever should be suffered in the minutes. In a criminal case you would not attach so much weight to evidence altered subsequently to its delivery as to evidence remaining in its original state. The effect of such a system would be to make the witnesses much more clear and careful in the formation of their answers. Their grammar, I have no doubt, would be much better attended to, and much of the laxity which now prevails among witnesses in
 78
 Sir Robert Peel  could not help thinking that great advantages would result from
 72 73
 Sir Robert Peel  was surprised that any misapprehension should have arisen as to the course which he yesterday stated his intention of pursuing. If such a misapprehension had arisen in the minds of any hon. Gentleman, he was quite sure it must have been occasioned by the circumstance of his having stated twice over what it was that he meant to do. What he stated was, that he was prepared to give his assent to that paragraph of his Majesty's speech which related to foreign policy,
 67
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that in the case of Mr. Long Wellesley, although a great many of the Committee attended it
 63
 Mr. Williams Wynn  saw no reason to depart from the usual practice. The Committee had never been found inconveniently large, and its proceedings had always been conducted with the utmost propriety, attention, and despatch.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  apprehended that any prevarication or false testimony might be punished satisfactorily by the House in the event of its being proved to have been committed by a witness. It would be the bounden duty of the House, in such an event, to visit the guilty party with condign punishment.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  entirely concurred with hon. Members in reprobating the latitude in which witnesses sometimes indulged, under pretext of correcting their evidence. He did not see how it was possible to preserve the purity of evidence, so long as these sweeping alterations were permitted. At the same time, he contended that it would be quite unfair to deprive the witness of the opportunity of rectifying errors for which he was by no means himself accountable. The evidence was taken in short-hand, and afterwards transcribed. It was impossible that during this process errors should not creep in. Mistakes had been frequently made, and the witness of course misrepresented. For these the witness could not be held responsible, and an occasional sinking of the voice on his part would of necessity create ellipses in the shorthand-writer's notes. The privilege of correction should be therefore afforded to the witness; but in the exercise of that privilege he should be restricted by a salutary control. He would instance the case of an election petition, where the evidence is taken in shorthand, and no opening is afforded for correction. He had no doubt, however, that if a witness stated to the Committee that he feared the Clerk might have committed an error of importance in taking some portion of his evidence, the Committee would direct the minutes to be altered accordingly. A similar procedure might be adopted by every other species of Committee.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, there certainly was no misunderstanding on his side of the House as to what fell from the right hon. Baronet on the previous evening. He perfectly understood the right hon. Baronet to say that which he had now stated. Undoubtedly hon. Members on the other side, by assenting to the Address as now proposed, did not pledge themselves in any way adverse to the opinions they had on former occasions expressed relative to any of the topics contained in it. He would only further say, although it was unusual for an individual to express regret that his opponent had not made a longer speech against him, yet he assured the hon. Member for Sandwich, that when a longer attack should be made on our foreign policy, he should be exceedingly happy to meet it.
 Mr. O'Connell  had that morning had an interview with four prelates, of a religion that was deeply affected by the Bills. He thought that a little amelioration and amendment might be advantageously introduced, but that they were deeply grateful for what they had obtained. He spoke of the professors of a religion that was now much increasing.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  applied for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish certain sinecure offices in the Courts of King's Bench, Common Pleas, and Exchequer, and to make a more effective and uniform establishment of officers in those courts. As the Bill had passed that House last Session, and did not pass the other House, it was not necessary, on the present occasion, to go at length into the reasons that induced him to bring in the measure. He would simply state, that he brought forward this Bill, to carry into effect the recommendation of Commissioners, for the purpose of inquiring into the fees of the officers of the courts of common law. This subject had long excited the attention of the two Houses of Parliament, and many attempts had been unsuccessfully made to correct the evils that prevailed. The House was aware, that in the year 1830, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tarn worth, introduced into that House a Bill for the purpose of ascertaining the value of all offices held by officers in the superior courts of common law. He did it as an experiment, for the purpose, as he stated in his very able speech, of preventing impediments at any future period of the progress of law reform, by their being constantly told, that the rights of officers interfered with legal reform. The right hon. Baronet's Bill, therefore, was to ascertain, once for all, what, at that period, was the value of those offices, in order that, in all times to come, there should be a certified value, which should be then paid to the holders of those offices, intimating to any future holders of those offices, who should be appointed subsequently, that their rights must not stand in the way of legal reform. These offices had undergone much inquiry; their value had been ascertained, and the purpose of the Bill which he was then seeking to introduce, was to get rid of, and to abolish them. He was quite sure that he needed to adduce no argument to induce that House to adopt a measure of such great importance—a measure which, he believed, had the sanc-
 87
 Lord John Russell  said, that however
 86
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill, to suspend for four months the operation of two Acts passed last Session, for the registration of births, marriages, and deaths. The Poor-law Commissioners had represented to him, that great inconvenience would ensue from putting these Acts in force at present, and they expected that by the 1st of July, about 1,300 parishes, not now in union, would be so, when the provisions of these Acts might be immediately carried into effect. This was a sufficient reason to induce him to postpone the operation of
 85
 Lord John Russell , in reply to the question put by the hon. Gentleman, begged to state, that in the Report made by the Commissioners, at the close of the last Session of Parliament, many alterations of the criminal law were suggested, and more especially with respect to the punishment of death. As the Commissioners recommended that that awful punishment should be taken away from many offences that were now capital, he thought it was not a subject that ought to be left long in debate or dispute, and therefore that no step should be taken with respect to it until the whole of the criminal law could be altered in the manner proposed by the Commissioners. At the same time, he thought that the subject was one that ought to occupy the attention of the Government, and that the Government, if it should be in their power to frame any measure upon it, should lose no time in calling the attention of the Legislature to it. With that feeling, soon after the close of the last Session, he felt it his duty to refer to the reports that had been made upon the subject; and he wrote to the Commissioners, requesting them to furnish him with the heads of a measure on the criminal law, by which the punishment of death might be taken away from those offences which, in their opinion, should no longer remain capital. The Commissioners met at the end of October, to consider of his letter, and he believed it was discussed and considered by them at great length, and with great attention. Since that time he had been in frequent communication upon the subject with the Lord Chancellor and Lord Denman, the chief justice of the Court of King's Bench, and, as the result of his labours and inquiries, he hoped, in a few days, to be able to give notice of a number of Bills which he intended to bring forward, and which
 90
 Lord John Russell  said, that the Lords of the Treasury had taken the advice of the Lord-Advocate on the point of law, and that the regulation of that office was under their consideration.
 Mr. Maclean  explained, that it was his intention not to object to the expense of the Commission, but to call the noble Lord's attention to the fact, that nothing had yet resulted from the labours of the Commission.
 Mr. Maclean  wished to know from the noble Lord opposite, (Lord John Russell) whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any alteration in the criminal law during the present Session? The commission had already cost the country 10,393 l.
 Mr. Baines  had heard a great deal on the subject of these Bills, and had always understood that the Dissenters, as a body, had accepted them, and felt grateful to Government for acceding to their wishes. Respecting the observation of the hon. Gentleman, he supposed that few Bills passed that House which gave entire satisfaction to all persons who were concerned.
 Mr. Wilks  must take leave to state, that the Dissenters expressed great gratitude to his Majesty's Government for those enactments, and though some few persons might differ from the general body, and think there were a few imperfections in them, yet these were like the spots on the sun, and he had no doubt the House would obliterate them.
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not rise to oppose
 88
 Mr. Potter  said, that the Dissenters of Lancashire and Cheshire had met at the Unitarian Chapel, Manchester, and had expressed their satisfaction with the Bill. He thought that the postponement might be productive of inconvenience to persons who were waiting to be married.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the Bills had given great satisfaction among his constituents.
 The Attorney-General  rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Municipal Corporation Bill. There were certain irregularities in the elections under that Act which, unless the House passed some legislative enactment to remedy them, would be productive of great inconvenience. There were two boroughs—Rochester, and Newport in the Isle of Wight— in which corporations there was an equal number of votes for each set of aldermen; the consequence had been, that each party had been put to much expense, inconvenience, and loss of time. Processes had also been issued against unfortunate councilmen more than two terms after the period they had been bound to serve, which had put the individuals to both expense and inconvenience; he should, therefore, propose, that the Court of King's Bench shall not have the power to issue a  quo warranto
 Sir Robert Inglis  wished the noble Lord had prolonged the term of their suspension. The object originally intended by those Acts was, the conciliation of the Dissenters: this object had not been obtained; and he could assure the noble Lord, neither had they conciliated the members of the Church of England.
 Sir William Follett  did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion of his hon. and learned Friend, in the object of which he agreed, though he would not pledge himself upon the subject; but he rose for the purpose of expressing his hope that his hon. and learned Friend meant to introduce some clause which should make the mayors more responsible than at present; indeed, as the law now stood, there was no check whatsoever on that officer—his dictum being final. There had been many instances in which the assessors had decided differently, and he should like to see some alteration in the constitution of their courts—in each case he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would bring forward some proposition for
 89
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  was strictly in order, on a motion for supply, to ask any Member of the Government if he concurred in any opinion which had been expressed by the Prime Minister respecting the Association—to ask if the noble Lord were bound by the opinion of the head of the Administration of which he was a part, who cordially disapproved of the National Association. He thought also that it was worthy the consideration of the House if he had, in asking this question, transgressed any of its rules. With deference to the noble Lord, he must say, that the answer he had received was no answer, but had rather (he appearance of an evasion.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  would ask the noble Lord one question concerning Ireland. He (Mr. Sergeant Goulburn) deeply deplored—and he wished to know if the noble Lord had any objection to state a similar opinion—the existence of an association in that country, called the National Association; he wished to know if the noble Lord concurred in that opinion. He had witnessed with great regret the existence and the control of an association in that country that was incompatible with the rights of that House, which was adverse to the administration of justice in Ireland, and of which, on many accounts, he cordially disapproved. He thought the
 92
 Mr. O'Brien  felt the inconvenience of discussing this subject at present, but he should not be doing justice if he did not refer to the policy that had been pursued last year by the party opposite. If the same policy were now pursued, it would go far to unite all Irishmen; and the question would then be considered whether the rights of Ireland should not be granted even by a Repeal of the Union. He called upon the party opposite not to repeat the fatal policy by which Catholic Emancipation was wrung from them.
 Mr. O'Connell  not only highly approved of what had been done by the Association, but he had heartily joined in it. He did not know whether the opinion alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman had been delivered or not by the Prime Minister—nor did he much care. He rather feared that it had been exaggerated. At all events, he was highly delighted with the proceedings of the Association; and when any specific charge was brought against it, he would be prepared to satisfy the country that it was not only legal, but had been most useful. The Association had this feature about it, that, whereas the Catholic Association had not one-fourteenth of its number Protestant, this association, on the contrary, had more than one-third of its members Protestant, and those, too, men of rank, property, and intelligence; and the number was increasing every day. This afforded a hope that Ireland would at length become one country, instead of being divided into a faction on the one hand, and the people on the other. The proceedings in that association were open as day—they courted publicity in every discussion—and he would say, that he believed the utmost possible facility was given to every person to know what was done amongst them. That association had sprung from a just sense of wrong, aggravated by insult. There had been found men audacious enough to assert that Irishmen were aliens in religion, in language, and in blood. There had been found a party atrocious enough to join with the individual who had dared to make use of that insult; and though the blood of Irishmen boiled, yet they had learned in the school of adversity to control and regulate their feelings. That association was determined to obtain justice. They were determined to obtain an equalisation in the privileges enjoyed by Scotchmen and by Englishmen; and if they could not obtain justice otherwise, they were determined to have it by a domestic Legislature. The Union should not be a mere paper and parchment union—it
 94
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he did not stand in the same situation as the hon. and learned Recorder. He was merely a political agitator, but the hon. and learned Recorder was a political judge; he combined the functions of judge and partisan. When the hon. and learned Member again quoted him, he begged that the quotation might be accurate. At different periods he might have said, that he no longer looked to this country for justice; since then he had entertained some remnant of hope; and even if this country did not grant them justice, he would not despair.
 Sir George Sinclair  had no objection to the introduction of this Bill, or to the consolidation of offices which it was intended to effect; but he took the earliest opportunity to intimate, that an esteemed friend of his, who now held one of the appointments in question (he alluded to Sir Henry Jardine), had been exposed to much tyranny and intimidation. Sir Henry Jardine was still in full possession of his mental and bodily energies: he had meritoriously served the public during a long course of years, as was attested by Sir S. Shepherd, the late Chief Baron of Scotland, and other competent judges; and instead of being desirous to retire, he had offered to discharge, on his present salary, the functions of the two consolidated offices, which he believed would be far less laborious than that of the single appointment which he had held so long. Sir Henry had not applied for leave to resign; he had no desire whatever to eat the bread of idleness; he was fond of business, as well as fully competent to discharge it; he challenged the fullest inquiry, and should be happy to meet it as soon as possible; he complained with deeply wounded feelings of the manner in which he had been treated by the Treasury, and of the expressions employed towards him in his
 100
 Sir George Clerk  wished to call the attention of the House to the conduct of his Majesty's Government. It appeared that two offices in the Exchequer Court of Scotland were about to be consolidated, and that the duties of the consolidated office were in future to be executed by one individual. Either of the gentlemen now engaged in the transaction of the business of the two offices was able and willing to undertake the performance of the duties of the consolidated office; yet the Government proposed to remove both of those Gentlemen from the public service, to pay them remuneration, and to appoint a stranger to the new office. Consequently, the contemplated arrangement, instead of effecting a saving, would entail an increased expenditure upon the country.
 Mr. Francis Baring  understood the hon. Baronet to state that either of the Gentlemen at present transacting the business of the two offices, which it was proposed to consolidate, was willing and able to discharge the duties of the new office, and that, therefore, whatever arrangement might hereafter be made, one of them ought to be retained in the public service. Me was quite willing to take issue on that point; for he thought that, when new arrangements were to be made, a discretion ought to be allowed to the Government as to the expediency of continuing persons in the public service when they were not properly qualified. The proposed arrangement would effect a saving, even after the payment of remuneration to the present office holders.
 Mr. Hume  was glad that the right hon.
 101
 Major Beauclerk  thought, that the only justification the Government could have for the appointment of a new officer was the circumstance of both the gentlemen to whom allusion had been made being totally unfit for the duty, and in such a case they would not be entitled to any compensation whatever.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  should have left the case as it was until the discussion on the second reading of the Bill, but for the observation of the hon. and gallant Member who preceded him. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not admit the principle on which that hon. and gallant Officer had based his argument. It was a case of frequent occurrence that, on a change such as the one in question, a man competent to perform the oaths of an office of a particular description—nay, who had discharged it competently through the latter part of a life devoted to it—was found quite incompetent to discharge the enlarged duties of another office. With respect, however, to the facts, he did not think it necessary to look into them after what had been stated by the Secretary for the Trea-

 102 103
 Mr. Robinson  trusted the case to which attention had been called would be settled, not with reference to one side of the House or the other, but with reference solely to the public interest. He was ready to admit, that it would be miserable economy to retain incompetent persons in the public service; but if, as had been stated, either of these gentlemen to whom allusion had been made was willing and able to discharge the duties of the new consolidated office, the Government would be highly censurable if they gave the appointment to a stranger, and thus fix a new burden on the country. As the character of the Government was involved in the transaction, he should watch their conduct closely and jealously, and he considered that upon them was thrown the  onus probandi
 Sir G. Sinclair  felt it only due to Sir Henry Jardine to repeat, that that gentleman was fully qualified for the new office, and that he courted the fullest investigation.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, some provision should be made in this Bill to regulate medical charities, as in those districts of Ireland where medical advice was most wanted, it was impossible to procure an adequate salary for a medical attendant. He had great doubts on the clause respecting deserted children. The evils that had resulted from the establishment of the Foundling Hospital at Dublin were so enormous as to necessitate the breaking up of that establishment. The frauds
 96
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  seconded the motion. After the able, eloquent, and conclusive speech of his hon. Friend, he need only encroach on the House for a few minutes. But he must say, that the sweeping creation of fictitious votes now going on in Scotland was felt by the real constituency to be an intolerable grievance. They found that whatever importance was intended to be bestowed upon them by the Reform Act was gone, or fast going; and that the results of the means of influence resorted to by the Tories were of such a description, that very many persons had reason to regret that they ever possessed the franchise. The speech of his hon. Friend had obviously not failed to make a deep impression on the House, and he trusted would not fail to rouse them to inquire into the character of these fictitious votes, and to ascertain if it were possible that they could be consistent either with the letter or the spirit of the Reform Act, be far as respected Scotland. The fact was, the Tories had pushed these transactions much too far; inquiry has become necessary, a remedy must be found. Their modes of influence, he must also observe, had been so undisguisedly and so prejudiciously used towards individuals, as to push on the Ballot question—to force it on; and although he was originally adverse to the Ballot on principle, the monstrous evils which existed now induced him to consider it as the only remedy; and, whenever the question came on for discussion, it would most probably induce him to vote for it.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that he fully agreed with the hon. Member who last addressed the House, in what he had said of the clear and able manner in which the hon. Member had introduced the subject to their notice; but the hon. Member must excuse him if he refused to concur in the difference which he had made as to life-rent qualifications between one party and
 122 123 bonâ fide Edinburgh Review, 124 l. 125 s. s. 126
 Mr. Pryme  would remind the hon. Gentlemen opposite, that one of the great objects contemplated by the Duke of Wellington on the Catholic Relief Bill was to prevent subdivision of property; and that measure was accompanied by another, which disfranchised the 40 s. l. bonâ fide 128
 Mr. O'Connell  was glad to hear what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin. For the first open day he intended to give notice of the extension of the Committee to Ireland, and he looked to the right hon. Gentleman as his seconder. He thought he had a right to expect that no one would seek to separate them when united for so good a purpose.
 The Speaker  said, he had received a letter from this Gentleman, which he would read to the House. It was to this effect:—
 "Sir,—I have the honour to inform you that persons stating that they have a warrant from the Lord Chancellor have found their way into the house in which I am staying, and have compelled me to go to the Fleet Prison with them. I had flattered myself that, while the matter was under the consideration of a Committee of Privileges, such violent proceedings as these would have been avoided; but I am sorry to say, I am mistaken. I have only to add, that I hope you will be so good as to read this letter to the House, and that they will extend to me the privilege that under similar cases has been given to Members of Parlia-
 130 "E. L. CHARLTON. "To the right hon. the Speaker. Friday Evening, half-past five o'clock."
 Lord John Russell  was not prepared to concur in the motion of the hon. Member for Salford, because the effect of it would be to take away all discretion on the subject from the House. The practice during the last Session had generally been to adjourn the House about twelve o'clock; but there were cases when it was important that public business should be proceeded with; and when it was the opinion of the House that the business before it required such despatch, he thought the hour at which the business was brought forward ought not to form an objection to the progress of important business. Ac- cording to the motion of the hon. Member, if any hon. Gentleman wished to obstruct the progress of a particular Bill, it would be in his power, by moving an adjournment after twelve o'clock, to put a stop to the business before the House, and thus materially delay, and perhaps eventually defeat it. The hon. Member for Salford had last year frequently moved the adjournment of the House, and he had never opposed the wishes of the hon. Member; on the contrary, he thought the hon. Member had exercised his power with admirable judgment, and he did not wish to interfere with the hon. Member's discretion hereafter. But, at the same time,
 106
 Lord John Russell  did not rise to reply to the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. He wished to state again, and he thought it was incumbent on him, in justice to Lord Mulgrave's Government, to do so, particularly as no notice of censure on Lord Mulgrave had been given which
 95
 Lord J. Russell  said, he did not think it was convenient to state whether he concurred or not in the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Gentleman on the National Association in Ireland. He did not conceive that this was a fit opportunity for the discussion; but he would give the hon. and learned Gentleman an opportunity of hearing his opinion on Tuesday night, when he brought in the Municipal Corporations Bill for Ireland. He would then state to the hon. and learned Gentleman his opinion, for which he was responsible; but he could not now state how far that opinion might coincide with that which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just expressed.
 Mr. Horsman  thought there ought to be separate Committees for England, Scotland, and Ireland.
 Mr. Horsman  went on to say, the question which I am about to bring under the notice of the House is one of very serious importance; it is one on which much excitement is at this moment prevailing in Scotland, and I feel certain that had the question been brought forward a little later, instead of during the first week of the Session, every county constituency in Scotland would have petitioned upon it. They all feel, as indeed those who have already addressed you state, that at this moment their very existence as elective bodies is not only endangered, but actually in the course of being extinguished. Such a grievance, so strongly felt, so generally complained of, must be sufficient to arrest the attention of this House—and having once gained that attention, the few facts that I shall feel it necessary to bring before it cannot fail to rouse its interest, and call forth a prompt and decisive interference.—The petitioners complain that they are being defrauded—nefariously and iniquitously defrauded—of the benefits intended to be
 109 bona fide 110 111 l. 112 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. bona fide l. 113 l. 114 bonâ fide 115 ad libitum, 116 117 118 119 120 121
 Mr. F. French  acknowledged the necessity of some part of the measure then before the House. Unfortunately, the Act of last Session was so defective, that if some of the provisions of the Bill now introduced by the noble Lord were not adopted, the salaries of the county-officers would have to remain unpaid, and the public roads and the remainder of the county expenditure unpresented for. By the law, as it at present stood, the Spring Grand Juries would not have the power to levy money for any presentments that were obliged, in the first instance, to be laid before the cess-payers at each Sessions. He was also aware of the necessity of a clause to regulate the posting of notices for applications, which, by some strange oversight, had been altogether omitted. So far he was willing to go with the noble Lord, and regretted that, consistently with his duty to his poorer fellow-countrymen, he could support him no further. Had his noble Friend read the Report of the Commissioners on the state of dispensaries in Ireland, he would have known it was anything but desirable, as he, by this Bill, was about to do, to restore them to their original state. For his part, he would sooner abolish them altogether. He did not, generally speaking, consider them to be serviceable to the people, 60 l. l. l. l. 97
 Mr. Shaw  said, that although it was an inconvenient practice to indulge in incidental discussion, yet he could not allow any person to suppose, by his silence, that he acquiesced in the sentiments of the hon. and learned Gentleman. It appeared to him, that the existence of the Association was inconsistent with the peace of Ireland. The Association assumed to itself the functions of Parliament, and was inconsistent with the rights of that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman charged others with using insulting language; he had himself repeatedly called the English Saxons, sassenachs and strangers. And with regard to the hon. and learned Member's observations on the union, had he not said, over and over again—he could show, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had written the same thing—that, under any circumstances, he would not be content without the Repeal of the Union? He could produce the words of the hon. and learned Gentleman, in which he said, that he neither could nor would be content with any other measure than the Repeal of the Union. In his conscience he believed, that the object of the Association was to impede the union between the two countries, and to overthrow the established religion.
 Mr. Shaw  said, the object of the noble Lord was one unconnected with politics, and that he should make no objection to the introduction of the Bill proposed by the noble Lord. The Grand Jury Bill of last year certainly required amendment, particularly in the two points mentioned by the noble Lord—the provisions for dispensaries, and those which related to deserted children; he thought it right, also, to put beyond a doubt, that last year's Act was not intended to bring the county and city of Dublin within its operation.
 Mr. Shaw  wished to extend the inquiry to Ireland. He thought the Committee most desirable, but he objected to its being limited to Scotland.
 Mr. George F. Young  would support the proposition, because the value of legislation should be tested, not by its quantity, but by its quality; and so far as his experience went, all the worst measures which had passed through that House had passed after midnight. Measures which were brought forward after twelve o'clock did not get that calm consideration which was required, and the consequence was, that many of them were extremely discreditable to the character of the House.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  certainly saw no reason why the proposed Committee might not, without the appointment of a separate Committee, extend its inquiries to Ireland, in the same manner as the Intimidation Committee had previously done.
 The Lord Advocate , on introducing this Bill, said, that the criminal law of Scotland was in general mild, and gave great advantages to the prisoner in conducting his defence; but the genera! character of the law of Scotland differed very much in the punishment of political offences from the disposition it showed in repressing other crimes by moderate penalties. Both the statute and common law were of great severity, and so extremely vague, that no person, however circumspect, who differed from the Government of the time, could be said to be secure. To refer only to one statute—that of 1585, cap. 10, forbade any person publicly to declare or privately to speak or write any purpose of reproach or slander of his Majesty's person, estate, or government; or misconstrue his proceedings, whereby any disliking may be moved between his Highness and his nobility and loving subjects, in time coming, under pain of death. The statute 1594 ratified this and all other statutes, and enacted the same penalties against whoever heard these leasings, calumnies, or slanderous speeches, or writs, and did not apprehend the authors if it lay in his power, or reveal the offence to the Crown or a magistrate. These severe laws unfortunately did not remain a dead letter. In 1635 Lord Balmarino was found to have incurred the penalty of death, on a conviction of having only heard an in- famous libel and concealed and not revealed it; and in 1681 the Earl of Argyle received sentence of death on the Act of 1585, for having merely added this explanation at taking the test oath, that he took it so far as was consistent with itself, or with the Protestant religion. This was held to be defaming the King's laws and proceedings, contrary to the statute. In 1703, after the Revolution, the severity of these laws was
 98
 Mr. Roebuck  was of opinion, that the country owed much to the hon. Gentleman who had submitted the present motion, because it would test the sincerity of that House, as to its desire of promoting purity in the representation; and they would have the means of ascertaining whether the House would do that, which former Houses of Commons had not done, amend the representation by putting down the system of fictitious votes. The hon. Baronet opposite (Sir G. Clerk) considered, that property was the essential qualification for a man to exercise the right of legislation, and if he possessed property in three or a dozen places, he should have the right of voting for three or a dozen individuals, and thus influence the election of twelve persons to be returned as representatives to that House. [ Hear, hear. 127
 Mr. Wilks  wished the Government to bear in mind, that laws of extreme severity still existed in England. By an unrepealed statute of Charles 2nd, no person could be a professor in any college unless he signed a declaration that he had adhered to the religion of the Established Church.
 Mr. Brotherton  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his motion respecting the time of sitting of the House. He said, that the motion which he had now the honour to submit to the consideration of the House was in his judgment so necessary, so reasonable, and so important, that he could not anticipate any opposition to it. He should only trespass on the indulgence of the House for a very few minutes, while he stated the grounds on which he claimed their support. No one could deny that the late sitting of the House had been very
 104
 Mr. Hume  declared that a great deal of time had been lost last Session in consequence of debates arising upon the very motion for adjournment. In particular cases, he admitted it would tend to the advantage of the public that the business before the House should be proceeded with after twelve o'clock. What was asked by the motion was, not to stop a debate which was going on before twelve o'clock arrived, but to prevent the discussion of fresh business after that hour. It was absolutely necessary that some Members should be present all the time the House was sitting, and many others wished to be present, and as many of them came down at eleven or twelve o'clock in the day and were obliged to stop till the House rose, he would ask whether an attendance of twelve or thirteen hours was not enough for any man? He really thought that more progress would be made if the motion was agreed to, so that after twelve o'clock no new matter should be brought on.
 Mr. Hume  approved of the introduction of the Bill, which would preclude all possibility of the present severe enactments being again enforced, as they had been against the early Reformers of the last century.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he thought the hon. Gentleman had got as good an answer as he had a right to expect. He had never before heard such a question asked. He did not know if the Prime Minister had ever expressed such an opinion; if he had, he could only say it was an indiscreet one. He did not know of what the hon. and learned Member disapproved; but, judging by the public and ordinary channels, he highly approved of the Association. He could tell the hon. and learned Gentleman, that Ireland had never before been so quiet under any other Government; and no credit was due to anything except the moral influence that had been exercised: it had been the moral influence of the Viceroy, and the people had rallied round, and were prepared to stand by him. Whenever the hon. and
 93
 Mr. Hume  said, that even after the Committee was formed, they must still have recourse to ballot and universal suffrage.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he assented to the principle of the motion as to Scotland, and was perfectly ready to carry it on with respect to England and Ireland; but he cautioned the hon. Mover not to allow his motion to be swamped by any suggestion for extending it. He thanked the hon. Baronet opposite for having used the term "justice to Ireland;" and he hoped that the time was not far distant when the sincerity of his desire to do justice to Ireland would be put to the test. At present, he thought that the most convenient course would be, to affirm the principle of the motion, and allow the nomination of the Committee to be postponed till Monday. He desired that the Report of the Committee should be as authoritative as possible; and he therefore wished that it should bear an impartial, nay, even a judicial character.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  ex-
 129
 Mr. Ewart  seconded the motion. He thought its adoption would materially benefit hon. Gentlemen, and would be of great advantage to the country. The present system fell very unequally upon hon.
 105
 Mr. Forbes  challenged the most rigid examination, and desired that the part of the country with which he was connected should be judged by the letter of the Reform Bill. It was perfectly true, that the merchants of Glasgow, and even the learned persons connected with its University, had purchased landed property, and had thereby increased their political influence; but he would ask, were they therefore to be called political assassins? The hon. mover might know something of the "clique;" they might be called political assassins; but he knew of no other body deserving the appellation. With regard to the county which he had the honour to represent, he would take upon himself to say, that upon examination it would be found as pure as any in the United Kingdom, and to have conformed as closely as any other to the spirit of the Reform Act. The counties of Perth, Roxburgh, and Haddington, had also supported the cause of good government, sound reform, and the Protestant religion. If such were the conduct of political assassins, he must acknowledge that the electors of those counties were guilty.
 The Attorney-General  was understood to state, that the hon. Member for Boston did not put a right construction on the
 99
 Viscount Morpeth  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Grand Jury Act for Ireland. As the amendments now proposed did not embrace any new matter, and were entirely formal, it was not necessary to go into any details. He would merely state that the Bill, with one exception, was the same as the Bill of last year, and he anticipated no opposition to it. He moved for leave to bring it in.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had moved for a similar return in the last Session of Parliament, to which he would refer the hon. Member, as it might save the trouble of urging the present motion. If these isolated returns were made, they never could be able to judge of the state of the country; he would, therefore, suggest that the hon. Member should postpone his motion.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, the object of the hon. Member was quite clear. He was not aware that such a motion had been made before. The return of the last Session, however, was a totally different one. He must say, that a speech made at the Glasgow dinner contained the falsest statements concerning Ireland. There never were more erroneous or more unfounded statements put forward, and he
 131 132
 The noble Viscount  added, that he would take that opportunity to state that the hon. Gentleman last week asked him, whether there would be any objection to certain returns being laid-before the House relative to the amount of assistance rendered by his Majesty's Government to the Queen of Spain. Not having looked at the time to the particular nature of the returns required, he (Lord Palmerston) had stated to the hon. Gentleman that there would be no objection; and upon that the hon. Gentleman moved for them. It appeared, however, on communicating the order of the House to the Admiralty, that there existed very great objections to making some portion of the returns. The order required, in the first place, a return of the amount of the military and naval stores, arms, and ammunition furnished to the Queen of Spain under the stipulations of the Quadripartite Treaty, and the amount of payment received for the same by his Majesty's Government; and in the next place, it called for the number of vessels of war
 135
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know whether, in considering this Bill, an opportunity would be given to correct what was erroneous in the last measure. He hoped it would be so framed as that such amendments could be made. According to the provisions of the Bill of last Session, no chapel could be registered unless as a separate building. Now that was inconvenient, for there were many chapels which existed in connexion with other buildings.
 Mr. O'Connell  certainly did not wish to make any reflections on the motives of the learned Judge; but it appeared to him (Mr. O'Connell) that the judge had taken a most inconvenient course. If the plea had been left on the record it would have been decided at once whether in point of law it amounted to a justification or not, and that without the expense of a trial, because if the plea had been demurred to, then the question would have been simply a question of law and decided by the court; whereas under the general issue it could only be tried before a jury. This was a demonstration how inconvenient the practice of pleading the general issue in many cases was. The general plea denied
 140
 Mr. O'Connell  certainly thought that Mr. Hansard had embarrassed himself. Why should he plead the truth of the publication? Neither had he any reason to plead the general issue. Having done so, he must take the consequences.
 Mr. Richards  quite concurred in the propriety of making a broad distinction between the fraudulent and the honest debtor; but, in his opinion, it was a more difficult task to draw the line than the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to think. The hon. and learned Gentleman had not shown the House how that difficulty was to be overcome. He hoped, however, that especial care would be taken to make the provisions of the present Bill answer the expectations which its title gave rise to. The last Bill brought forward on the subject would have created immense patronage for the Government, and, instead of being of benefit to creditors, would have been a mere Bill of pains and penalties. The individual to whom the drawing up of that Bill had been intrusted seemed to have the same opinion as the hon. Member for Bath of his Majesty's Ministers. The Bill had been drawn up knavishly for
 150 151
 Mr. O'Connell  said, when he was requested last Session to present the petition he told the parties that he did not think it was a petition that ought to be presented to the House, unless somebody was disposed to follow it up by bringing an accusation against the judge, and that, in his opinion, it contained statements of that nature which could not be well followed up. The party replied, that all he required him (Mr. O'Connell) to do, was to present the petition, and he (the party) would get persons to bring the matter of it before the House. He begged to add, that when he presented the petition he had no idea of its being printed or published.
 Mr. Richards  rose to order. The hon. Member for Liverpool had attributed words to him which he had never used. He never charged the party who drew up the Bill with having knavish purposes in view. What he said was, that the Bill had been knavishly drawn up; and that the drawer of it seemed to entertain the
 152
 Mr. Richards : I have explained the  animus.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that when the former Bill was under the consideration of the House, he inquired whether it was to be extended to Ireland, and was told in reply, that the machinery which was requisite for its operation was inapplicable to that country. He then resolved, after the English Bill should have passed, to ask for the introduction of one of a similar nature, adapted to the circumstances of Ireland. It now appeared, if he properly understood the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney-General), that there existed no reason why the proposed measure should not be extended to Ireland, as all intention of erecting new tribunals was disclaimed. Under these circumstances, he thought it would be wise, as the proposed provisions were in his opinion highly salutary, to legislate for both countries in one and the same Bill.
 Mr. Pemberton  did not rise to prolong the discussion relative to the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, but to inquire of the Government, whether it was their intention to submit to that or to the other House of Parliament, any measure for the improvement of the administration in the Courts of Chancery. During the last Session of Parliament a measure was introduced by the Lord Chancellor, but it was considered so inadequate for its purpose, both by lawyers and all other persons, that no great regret was felt, that the measure was not proceeded with. The evils which then existed had since increased to a degree of which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite might not perhaps be aware. Two years and a-half ago the arrears in the Court of Chancery were between 300 and 400, and they had now increased to between 800 and 900. In the House of Lords, too, the duties of the Lord Chancellor had greatly increased, so that the sittings in his own Court were frequently interrupted. Added to this, the Court of Privy Council had occasioned extreme inconvenience by totally altering its arrangements. It formerly used to hold its sittings during the holidays, when no other Court was open; but it now sat at times when business was being transacted in other Courts. Still its sittings were so unfrequent, that it could not acquire a bar for itself; and consequently the gentlemen of the profession were obliged to neglect the interests of their clients, either at the Privy Council or at another Court. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed by the provisions of the Bill he had asked leave to introduce, to throw some duty on the judges of the Court of Review. He was very glad to hear of such an arrangement, for there certainly was no body of men in the country so much in want of employment as those learned individuals. It was not his in-
 154
 Mr. W. Williams  rose to second the motion. It must be evident to every one in the House that an inquiry was necessary into the proceedings of joint-stock banks, for at present the House had no information whatever. But he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not object to this amendment; for although the joint-stock banks had contributed towards producing the direful distress which the manufacturing, trading, and commercial classes were suffering, yet the part they had had in it was very small compared with the Bank of England. He considered the imprudent conduct of the Bank of England, in the management of its issues, the entire cause of the difficulties which ex-existed. The joint-stock and country bankers had undoubtedly extended their issues, but it was in consequence of the way being led by the Bank of England. He had a return showing the state of the circulation of the Bank of England for three or four years, and he thought such a want of management, and such a reckless disregard of the interests of the country, had never been shown by any public body in-trusted with the management of its financial resources. On the 28th of December, 1833, the issues of the Bank were 32,600,000 l. l. l. l. l. 171 l. l. 172
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the question before the House was really whether the inquiry should be as extensive as the hon. Member for Middlesex had called for. He did not think that anybody had intimated the least intention of opposing an inquiry. One Gentleman had argued against it, but he did not say, that he meant to vote, against it. If the inquiry implied hostility to Joint-stock Banks—if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated a case of misconduct against the directors of Joint-stock Banks, he (Mr. O'Connell) should feel it to be his duty to negative the motion. He had heard something of that kind from the hon. Member for Bridport, but nothing from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was for inquiry. If inquiry was to imply Legislation according to the report, he would be decidedly against it; but he thought that inquiry was necessary, because it should be courted by those who asked for public confidence, and in the next place, the notion that Joint-stock Banks contributed to the evils of the present state of affairs, was a reason why there should be inquiry. His own opinion was, that instead of increasing the distress, they tended to mitigate it, and afforded a ground of security never before introduced into the banking system. A Joint-stock Bank had stopped in England and Ireland, and private Banks had stopped. The Bank of Carlisle had stopped, although it had been many years in existence, and we were told its creditors would receive 14 s. s. 188 189
 Mr. Crawford  bore testimony to the correctness of the illustration given by the hon. Member for Derbyshire of the success of the Birmingham Joint-stock Bank. He was not prepared to address the House, as he had not had the honour of being upon the Committee. He had, however, endeavoured to make some estimates of what might be the probable profit of a most prosperous bank. He left a large margin when he said that ten per cent. of that profit could not arise upon a banking principle unless it were from the sale of the credit of the banks, instead of money on discount. So far as the debate had gone, it did not appear that the House had been put in possession of one important fact respecting circulation—viz. the amount of paper created by re-dis-
 190
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  believed, that the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House was, perhaps, the only Member who would have expressed disappointment at the hon. and learned Gentleman not entering into a long speech, at that hour of the night.
 Lord J. Russell  appeared at the Bar, and read his Majesty's answer to the Address, which is as follows:—"I have received with satisfaction your loyal and dutiful Address. I rely with confidence on your mature consideration of those subjects to which I have called your attention. It will be my earnest endeavour, with the blessing of Divine Providence, to preserve the peace of Europe, to maintain the honour of the Crown, and promote the happiness of my subjects."
 Lord John Russell  hoped there was a general agreement in the House that, with respect to the publication of papers by the authority of the House, the protection which the privileges of the House afforded would be extended over those who made such publication. It did not appear to him, however, that the order for printing and publishing the papers by individuals at all differed from the species of publication which took place previously among the Members themselves. He would add, that he trusted this case would be disposed of in the way proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter. With respect to this particular case, it did not at alt resemble the case of the petition alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, containing matter of a scandalous nature concerning the Lord Chief Justice. It was one which formed a legitimate subject for the attentive consideration of the House and the public. It would be recollected, the inspectors of prisons had been appointed in consequence of an Act of Parliament passed the year before last; and they were ordered
 143
 Lord John Russell  said, that there would be an opportunity afforded at a future period of introducing any amendments that might be agreed to by the House.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that with regard to the opinions of the Common Law Commissioners upon the question, he would mention, for the information of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, that they, if not unanimous, were nearly so, as to the policy of abolishing imprisonment for debt, and those few who differed from the rest had published the reasons for their dissent. They had founded their opinions upon the evidence of tradesmen and other persons, capable of forming a correct judgment on the question, the majority of whom had stated, that the credit of the country could not be in the least degree affected by the abolition of imprisonment for debt. Under the existing system there was the greatest
 153
 Mr. Charles Buller  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord, concerning an occurrence which had excited great interest in the country—the alleged seizure of a British vessel, by order of the Russian Government. He wished to know on what plea that seizure had been made—whether owing to the infringement of the blockade on the coast of Circassia, or of the quarantine regulations established by Russia. He also wished to know if any steps had been taken respecting the levy of tolls by Russia at the mouth of the Danube.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was understood to reply, that when the report of the Committee was received, he would then be able to answer the question.
 Mr. Poulet Thomson  observed, that the hon. Member for Derbyshire had brought forward the Report of the Committee, and had objected to its being re-appointed, because he objected to the recommendations of the Committee. The Committee advised, in their Report to the House, the re-construction of the Committee of last Session for the purpose of acquiring further information before they could recommend any course of legislation to the House. With respect to what had fallen, as to the Committee reporting that legislation, was unadvisable; he need only refer to the evidence of Mr. Moore James, who said, in reply to the question, "Is this a portion of the law, which, in your opinion requires amendment? It does." He believed that hon. Members would find few witnesses who considered legislation unadvisable, though they differed as to the mode. If it were advisable, then, to legislate on the subject, was it not better to re-appoint the Committee? Every friend of Joint-stock Banks ought to assent to the inquiry. All must be aware that these banks had borne up well, and had gained credit under the trial. As a friend, therefore, to Joint-stock Banks, he should vote for the proposed inquiry. Whatever difference of opinion there might be as to the construction of some of these banks, it could not be denied, that the large numbers of persons of wealth and respectability who engaged in these establishments formed a new feature in the banking system of this country. No doubt such a number of persons of this class created a greater degree of security and no man entertained a doubt that paper had been pushed farther than it ever had been before. The credit of the Joint-stock Banks undoubtedly produced such a result; and he agreed with an hon. Member who stated, that great disadvantage might arise from the market being overflooded with paper at one time, and too much curtailed at another. But that was an evil which could not be guarded against: no Act of Parliament could make people
 191 192
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that as any great alteration in these duties must depend, not only on circumstances connected with policy, but also on circumstances connected with the revenue of the country, it was not now in his power to answer the question.
 Mr. Villiers  thought, that if the hon. Member for Worcester would sanction an inquiry into the Joint-stock Banks, and into the effects of the suppression of one pound notes in 1823, and that he was not averse to the whole truth being disclosed respecting the operations of banking in this country, there was something whimsical in his opposition to the amendment of the Member for Middlesex. He was anxious for the truth to be elicited, and, therefore, should vote for that amendment. He did not expect much good from the revival of this Committee, if the inquiry was to be confined to the operations of Joint-stock Banks, for he was afraid that, from partial evidence, no rules could be deduced that could have any general ap-
 181 182
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, it was very inconvenient to call upon the Admiralty to make a return as to the number of ships and men employed in any naval operations that were pending. If the hon. Gentleman, when speaking to him (Mr. C. Wood) on the subject of his intended motion, had specified to him the precise terms in which he afterwards shaped it, he should at once have told the hon. Gentleman that such a practice never had been pursued, and that it was contrary to all the rules of the Admiralty. He was perfectly ready to make any general admission as to men having been employed, but any return of the actual force so employed he must resist.
 Mr. Maclean  could not conceive in what way he could have given the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty a more distinct notice of the object of his motion than by putting into his hands in the morning a printed document setting forth that which he should move for in the evening.
 Mr. Maclean  was understood to say, that supposing he should bring the question forward, it would be a very serious impediment to his argument if the returns
 136
 Mr. Maclean  wished to know whether the noble Lord would object to lay on the table any correspondence which might have passed between his Majesty's Government and that of Russia on this subject.
 Mr. Maclean  assured the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that he had read the former Bill; and that his object in questioning the Government about the introduction of a new Bill, was to ascertain whether or not an opportunity would be allowed for fully considering its provisions. It appeared to him, from the great many alterations proposed to be made in the new Bill, that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (the Attorney-General) admitted, that the House of Lords had acted perfectly right in not agreeing to the former measure. There were parts of the present Bill, which he thought the House ought to watch with extreme jealousy. The power which it was proposed to give to any creditor who should be prepared to swear that he suspected his debtor was about to abscond, of causing the latter to be incarcerated, was one extremely liable to abuse. The old Bill contained a provision which he considered highly dangerous, and to which he should be disposed to object, if it was comprehended in the present Bill; he alluded to the power given to the creditor of breaking into the house of a third party, in order to obtain possession of goods belonging to his debtor.
 Mr. Maclean  wished to know in whom was to be vested the appointment of the individuals, who, according to the hon. Gentleman, were to be intrusted with the superintendence of the registries, and the right of deciding upon claims to the franchise?
 Mr. Baines  wished to say a few words with regard to one point relating to the reading of notices before the guardians of the poor. That part of the measure was generally conceived by the Dissenters to be derogatory and insulting, and he was sure that it was not the wish of any branch of the Legislature to accumulate insult on the heads of those whom the Bill originally intended to relieve. There was another point to which he begged to call the attention of the House, and he hoped they would not fail to take it into consideration. It was that part of the Registration Bill by which the guardians of the poor were to be made the superintendent registrars of births, marriages, and deaths. This was an exceedingly objectionable part of the Bill. It was the seventh clause, and if any arrangement could be made to obviate this objection, he thought it would
 138
 Mr. Cayley  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex, that the inquiry should be extended to the affairs of the Bank of England. The difficulty which the Bank of England had to contend with under the present system was, that it had to attend not only to its own interest—to bank stock, for instance, as well as other property connected with that establishment—but also to the interests of the mercantile body. The Bank on the late trying occasion had acted with great humanity, and had attended to its own interests as well as the great interests of the public, without drawing the cord too tight. But he would now ask what was the danger to the Bank at present? The danger arose in a great measure from the circumstance, that the exchanges were not favourable, and, consequently, so long as this was the case the necessary result must be, to create derangement, to a certain extent, in the affairs of the Bank. In the crisis of 1825, the state of the exchanges was not so bad or so injurious to the Bank. On that occasion, the rate of exchange had been unfavourable for only six months; whereas, when the difficulties commenced last autumn, it had been unfavourable for twelve or eighteen months, and then, as in 1825, the Bank was compelled to make the greatest exertions to stave off the evil day, and to counteract the evil arising from the price of commodities being higher than the standard of value. He considered it impossible that the standard of value could be higher than the prices of commodities, unless the circulation had diminished in order to raise the price. He therefore supported the inquiry, while at the same time he expressed it as his opinion, that
 187
 Mr. Shaw , in pursuance of the notice which he had given, rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee, to inquire into the practice of creating and registering Fictitious Votes in Ireland, and in doing so, the hon. and learned Gentleman said, that he freely admitted that abuses had prevailed on all sides, with reference to the creation of fictitious votes. He did not think it necessary to enter into any lengthened statement at that late hour of the night, seeing what had been the feeling expressed by the House on a former evening.
 Mr. Robinson  was desirous to take that opportunity of offering a few remarks on the question before them. The proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was for the revival of the Committee of last year, which had been appointed on the motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. The hon. Member for Middlesex proposed, not merely that the inquiry should be extended to Ireland, but that it should embrace the entire monetary system of the country. Now the House had repeatedly refused to grant an inquiry into the general system of the currency of the country. He did not mean to discuss whether the House had acted wisely or not in refusing that inquiry. He would not then say whether the currency was in a satisfactory state or not, or whether it might not be improved; but he would state that if an inquiry was to be granted it ought to be granted directly to that effect, and not be ingrafted on a motion of the
 173 174 l. 175 l.
 Mr. Robinson  was not surprised to find that we had met with such treatment at the hands of our ancient ally, whose future course he had predicted on the occasion of the alteration of the wine duties by the present Lord Spencer.
 Mr. Robinson  begged to ask whether Government had official cognizance of the tariff which had been promulgated by the Portuguese Government, and which was, he conceived, almost prohibitory of our commerce in that country; he also requested to know what were the intentions of Government respecting the course to be pursued in these circumstances.
 Mr. G. F. Young  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite whether it was the intention of Government to bring in any measure respecting pilotage?
 Mr. Henry Grattan  was much astonished that the hon. and learned Gentleman should not have entered, at some length, into the grounds upon which he intended to proceed, as had been done on a former similar occasion by the hon. Member for Cockermouth.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  thought the rule laid down by the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty was a very proper one; but after his hon. Friend the Member for Oxford had been told by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs that there would be no objection to a return of the number of ships and men employed, no blame certainly could be imputed to him for making the motion.
 Mr. Warburton  did not agree with his hon. Friend, the Member for North Derbyshire, in most of his propositions. The question before the House, as it appeared to him, was not whether they should legislate on the subject of Joint-stock Banks, but whether they should have a Committee of Inquiry on the subject—whether there were not in existence evils arising out of the conduct of Joint-stock Banks, which, for the sake of public information and security, it was desirable to inquire into. The evils attributable to Joint-stock Banks were, it appeared to him, of a very different nature from those which could be laid to the charge of the Bank of England. Amongst the charges against the managers of Joint-stock Banks was that of want of integrity in their proceedings; but he had never heard, amongst all the charges against the Bank of England, that of any want of personal integrity on the part of its governors. A want of prudence had occasionally been attributed to them, but it had never been alleged against them, that they had mismanaged the funds intrusted to them by their customers, for their own personal benefit. He would not deny that the Bank of England might not be so perfect in its control of the currency as might be desirable, and that a time might come when it would be advisable to inquire into such a question. At the same time, however, he would observe, that whilst the greatest good which could be expected to result from such an inquiry, was that of forming an efficient board, to control the currency, with as much equality as possible, the
 183
 The Speaker  said, on referring to the reports, he found that in a case where an action had been brought against the Speaker and the Sergeant-at-Arms, the opinion of the House seemed to be that the plea ought to be so framed as to allege specifically and distinctly the authority of the House in defence of the action. In this it was doubtful whether the plea had been so framed; and it would only be prudent in the House to pause, till that point were ascertained and not enter hastily into a contest on a question of privilege.
 The Speaker  said, I hope that the House will allow me to recall their attention to the discussion which took place a few nights ago, with respect to the evidence taken before Select Committees. It is probable that it will be an important part of the duly of the Committee now appointed to examine witnesses, and to report their evidence to the House. The occasion, therefore, is appropriate. When this House appoints a Select Committee to inquire into and report upon any matter referred to them, a very important duty is devolved upon the members of the Committee, who are responsible, end are bound to discharge it with accuracy and fidelity. A practice has prevailed of allowing witnesses to alter and add to the testimony they have given before the Committee; and this, too, without the alterations and additions being submitted to the Committee, so that the witness might be examined as to the alterations or additions. This practice cannot be defended. It is not evidence given in the presence of the Committee, but evidence altered and added to by the witness in his private apartment. This practice, when carried to the extent that is now not uncommon, tends to destroy the character for accuracy and fidelity which ought to be impressed on evidence which purports to have been given in the presence of the Committee. The witnesses have been in the habit of retaining the evidence in their possession for so great a length of time as
 145 146
 Mr. Pattison  was understood to state, that it might perhaps be expected that he should express his opinion on the question before the House. He felt that he was placed in a most awkward predicament, from being unaccustomed to address them. He would, however, simply advert to a few of the topics touched upon by hon. Members who had preceded him, and in the first place, he must observe that he could not concur in opinion with those who thought that sufficient cause had not been shewn for this inquiry. Events which had taken place during the recess, in his opinion fully justified the re-appointment of this Committee. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Coventry, in reference to the management of the Bank of England, he considered them uncalled for; and he could only tell that hon. Gentleman, who thought fit to find fault with the management of the Bank, that the accounts of that establishment had been regularly published—that its affairs were conducted under the auspices of Government—and that all its transactions were in strict conformity with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Legislature.
 186
 Mr. Roebuck  considered no person publishing papers under authority ought to be exposed to the trouble and expense of such an action as this. On the contrary, whoever published under the sanction of the House ought to do so under perfect security. To say that there was a difference between publishing and selling that which was published, was a distinction worthy of lawyers, but not consistent with common sense. The moment a thing was printed it was published to all intents and purposes; and courts of justice had determined that putting a letter in the Post-office was a publication; and whenever the votes of that House were printed they were published—all the world knew them —all the world would know them—and the publisher ought to be protected.
 Mr. Wilks  admitted that the first point adverted to by his hon. Friend was a monstrous evil on the part of the Dissenters of this country, and one to which every Member who took an interest in behalf of the Dissenting body was bound to give every attention in his power. As to the other point, he was not prepared at that moment to pledge himself, but he would give it every attention.
 Mr. Wilks  hoped that the Bill would be postponed for a month, in order that full opportunity might be afforded for introducing such improvements as might be suggested. He expected to receive many valuable suggestions from the Dissenters in different parts of the country.
 Mr. Hume  asked the right hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention to introduce any measure for the alteration of the timber duties?
 Mr. Hume  said, that as this country had incurred considerable expenses in the maintenance of the treaty with Portugal, he did think the noble Lord was justly entitled to claim a liberal interpretation of our commercial connexions with that country. He should be very sorry, however, if it were necessary to resort to what the noble Lord called measures of retaliation on that people; it would rather be his object to shame them into a more liberal system of policy. Subject dropped.
 Mr. Hume  was fully aware of the importance of the present question, and he begged the indulgence of the House while he made a few observations in relation to it. The right hon. Gentleman
 159 160 161 162 l. 163 l. l. l. 164 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 165 l. l. maximum minimum maximum l. 166 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 167 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 168 l. l. l. 169 170
 Mr. Pease  disclaimed everything savouring of hostility towards Joint-stock Banks. Of their value, no one in his opinion could entertain a doubt, provided they were properly conducted. Those, therefore, which were conducted upon a sound and prudent system had everything
 198
 Mr. Bernal  presented a Petition from Messrs. Hansard, printers to the House of Commons, stating that an action for libel had been commenced against them for publishing a Report of a Committee of the House, and praying for relief in the matter. He moved that the petition be read. l. l. 139
 Mr. Bernal  then moved that the petition be referred to the Committee of Privileges.
 Mr. Bernal  said, that whatever was the result of the action, he was sure the House would not suffer the Messrs. Hansard to suffer any loss. He looked upon this as a matter of course, and he would therefore move that the petition do lie on the table.
 Mr. Potter  felt sure, that the introduction of the Bill with the proposed alterations would give great satisfaction to the country, and particularly to the trading community.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that the petitioners ought not to have pleaded the general issue at all, but only a justification. He did not think it was too late to move the court to allow the plea of the general issue to be withdrawn, and the plea of justification entered on the record. He had no doubt that such an application would meet with success.
 Mr. Thomas Baring  said, that the hon. Member for Derbyshire had opposed all interference in Joint-stock Banks on the ground, that they were yet in their infancy, and that they would improve by experience. But would it not be useful to apply to them some control, as was done to other things not advanced beyond childhood? He thought that a great difference might be seen in the constitution of Joint-stock Banks and those established on the old system. Joint-stock Banks advertised capitals of millions, and proceeded to business when only thousands were paid up. This appeared to him a strong distinguishing feature in the system of Joint-stock Banks. This might certainly make inquiries into the nature of these establishments necessary. With respect to the inquiry being extended to the Bank of England, if it could be proved that there was any intention of violating the charter, then he should think the inquiry necessary; but if there was not some great and decided change intended by that body he could not see that the inquiry could lead to any practical result. If there was any intention of giving any additional powers he thought the House ought to inquire into the nature of those powers, and their effect on the Bank of England; but if the powers it already possessed were wielded with foresight and discretion any further inquiry on the subject would be useless. But it appeared that no such increase of power was contemplated. He agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex in his remarkson the fluctuations which took place so frequently in the circulating medium. He thought, also, the hon. Member's observations on the subject of publicity of assets were worthy of observation. Indeed, sufficient proof of the necessity for such publicity had lately been given. He also thought the allusion made to the rate of exchange with America, and the em-
 184
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that as between the limited inquiry proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the more extended inquiry proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex, he could not for a moment entertain any doubt. It seemed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not satisfied with the limits proposed by the inquiry, wished them to be still further contracted, for he said that they had no right to inquire into the proceedings of banks which were not banks of issue merely on the ground of Joint-stock Banks being Banks of issue. He would maintain the right of the House to institute inquiries with respect to the proceedings of all banks, and he could state that many of the most important Joint-stock Banks were not banks of issue. If this were to be an inquiry he was ready to maintain that it was even more important that those banks should be inquired into than those which were banks of issue.
 176 177 178 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 179 180 s. s. s. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in rising to move the renewal of the Committee on Joint-stock Banks, said, it would be in the recollection
 156 157 Hear. 158
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, in reply, that he did not see any reason from the statements which had been made, and the arguments which had been adduced in the course of the discussion, to induce him to alter the course he had taken the liberty of suggesting at the outset—that the inquiry should not extend to the Bank of England, and its proceedings, save and except where the Bank of England connected itself with the Joint-stock Banks; for, undoubtedly, wherever its proceedings told upon or influenced their proceedings, both must be connected together; in fact, it was impossible to separate the one from the other. But, although he was not prepared to recommend an inquiry into the conduct of the Bank of England before a Select Committee, although he did not think it neces-
 199 200 201 s. d. l. 202
 Mr. Wakley  maintained that all who voted for inquiry limited to Joint-stock Banks implied at least, if they did not directly aim, an attack on the character of those institutions. There might be defects in their constitution, but they were parts of the old system of banking, and the Joint-stock establishments had gone far to remedy the evils formerly complained of. If the present inquiry were restricted to the Joint-stock Banks, Parliament would, in his opinion, act most unfairly by them; why
 197
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the former Bill, which had been described by the hon. Member for Knaresborough, as tending to undermine the landed aristocracy, only went to make them liable for their just debts; and if the hon. Member dared to maintain that that was an improper object of legislation, he should like to know what sort of constituency it was that sent that hon. Member to that House? He was astonished to hear the hon. Member charge the party who had drawn up the former Bill with having knavish purposes in view.
 Mr. Ewart  put it to the House, whether the words used by the hon. Member did not convey an imputation against the Gentleman who had drawn up the former Bill. The  animus
 Mr. Ewart  continued. He was glad of the introduction of a measure so calculated to benefit the people as that of which the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney-General) had explained the nature. It had been said by Lord Chancellor Eldon, that the law in its present state was barbarous, and he thought, that no one would be found to object to the introduction of a Bill for its amendment.
 The Attorney-General , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the better regulation of the Registration of Voters in England, said, that upon reconsideration of the measure submitted to the House during
 155
 The Attorney-General  admitted the existence of the evils to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had drawn the attention of the House. He believed there could be no doubt, that, in consequence of the increased population, and the increased wealth of this country, the present judicial establishment was inadequate. That judicial establishment continued, in point of fact, in almost the same state as it was at a period when the kingdom was six times less populous, and twenty times less wealthy. He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the subject to which he had alluded was under the serious consideration of the Government, and he had no doubt, that during the present Session, and at an early periods it would be brought under the consideration of that House, care being taken to give time for the fullest and most mature discussion.
 The Attorney-General , in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish Imprisonment for Debt except incases of fraud, said, that he did not propose to enter at large into the subject. It had been frequently discussed in that House, and the House had frequently expressed a strong opinion as to the propriety of abolishing imprisonment for debt, except in cases of fraud. He would explain, as briefly as possible, the points in which the Bill which he now asked leave to bring in, differed from the Bill which he had formerly presented to the House. One difference was, that the present Bill was much shorter than the former Bill. He therefore trusted that some of those hon. Members who had offered opposition to his former Bill would not offer any to the present. Indeed, he entertained some hopes that his hon. Friend, the Member for Knaresborough, would second his present motion; for he had discarded that part of his old Bill to which his hon. Friend had objected so strenuously—he meant that part of it which related to speedy judgment and execution upon bills of exchange. He considered that that part of his former Bill might be spared now, on account of the great improvement which had recently been introduced into that department of the law by the judges. The progress of causes had been so much accelerated, the means of procuring justice were now so much more economical than formerly, that he thought he might safely omit that part of his Bill altogether. Another part of his former Bill related to a  cessio bonorum. 147 148 in salvâ et arctâ custodiâ. custodes rotulorum 149 cessio bonorum l.
 The Attorney-General  happened to be counsel in the case, and would take care not to make allusion to the merits of it. But he was anxious for the sake of the learned Judge that it should be fully understood by the House that he meant no disrespect whatever to the House by the order he made, because all that he meant was, that the special plea of the privilege of the House was wholly unnecessary, inasmuch as it was competent for the defendants to give that matter in evidence under the plea of the general issue. He would just suggest to the House that if they did wish to protect persons from the consequences of publications made under their authority, it might be necessary to have a new law upon the subject.
 The Attorney-General  entertained the hope, that in this respect an arrangement every way satisfactory to the House would be entered into. He had been most anxious before the introduction of the Bill of last Session to vest the appointment of the superintendents of the registration in the Speaker; but that right hon. personage disclaimed the exercise of any such power. A difficulty now existed as to whether the right of appointment should be vested in the Secretary of State for the Home Department or in the Lord Chancellor. He would, however, apply his attentive consideration to the fittest arrangement in this matter.
 Sir Robert Peel  felt it his duty to support the motion of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was certainly of great importance to the commercial and banking interests of the country that Parliament should at an early period of the Session pronounce a decisive opinion as to whether or no it could interfere with them by proposing any new restrictions on Joint-stock Banks; and if Parliament decided that it could so interfere, it ought to make known with as little delay as possible what would be the nature of those restrictions, because the very suspense of the question was pregnant with almost as much evil as unwise legislation upon it could be. A Committee had been appointed, witnesses had been examined, but the Committee had informed the world that it had not time to conclude its inquiries, and therefore it proposed to renew its inquiries; and now the consequence was, that no one could determine that he might safely enter into a connexion with any banking establishment—not because his prospects of the new regulations might materially affect his speculation, but he would be unwilling to engage in it while such an inquiry was pending. It was, therefore, highly necessary that Parliament should, without delay, decide what could be done, and what it intended to do. He was, therefore, unwilling to devolve on the Committee more than was necessary for
 193 minutiœ infinitum. 194 l. l. 195 Hume 196
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped that the House would take no step which would interfere with the regular course of justice. He apprehended that under the plea of the general issue the defendant might give evidence of his having acted under the authority of the House. In his opinion, it would be better for them to postpone the matter until the decision of the Court of King's Bench had been given, because the House were at perfect liberty at any time to take such steps as they pleased to vindicate their privileges. He would, therefore, suggest that the hon. Member who had presented the petition should move that the debate be adjourned until after the question had been settled in the court.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  then asked the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, with respect to the petition he had recently
 144
 Mr. Williams Wynn  could not agree with the hon. Gentleman that the publication was of the same kind when a court ordered documents to be printed for its own use, and when it was sent out to the public. There was, in his opinion, a decided difference between one case and the other. The House could order documents to be printed, not only for its own use, but for that of the public; this, therefore, called for greater circumspection as to what documents should be published, and he wished, in making these observations, merely to show what inconvenience might arise from a want of this circumspection.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, when the House ordered a publication of its Reports, not for the use of the Members only, or when it authorised any person to sell those Reports, that certainly was a publication by its authority, and was within the case which occurred at the close of the reign of Charles 2nd. In that case the Speaker was proceeded against in the Court of King's Bench for having licensed a certain publication. He pleaded in justification the authority of the House; that plea was overruled by the judges, and it was afterwards declared that the decision of the judges was a violation of the privileges of the House; and the judges were called upon to answer for it at the Bar of the House. No doubt the authority of the House might be given in defence upon the general issue, but if it were put on the record it was a plea which, in his opinion, ought not to have been overruled. He could not conceive that it was necessary to make any new law upon the subject. He would not enter into the question as to the expediency of licensing and selling Parliamentary papers, but he very much doubted the expediency; but having granted that licence he was bound to say those acting under it could not be amenable to any law for so doing. Unquestionably this case would induce the House to exercise a more jealous control over the papers published by its authority. It was no longer ago than at the close of the last Session, to his great surprise, he found in the Report of the Committee of Petition a petition printed containing the stronges charges, in the most offensive and scan-
 141
 Mr. Clay  said, that the observations which he had intended making were in a great measure superseded by the remarks which had already fallen from his hon. Friend to the right (Mr. Hume). He was decidedly of opinion that, if any inquiry was useful it should not be limited to any particular banking establishment, but extended to the whole system. He also begged to say from what he knew of the state of the money market, and of the state of public opinion on this question, that this inquiry was imperatively demanded. The hon. Member for Derbyshire whom he did not see in his place, had stated that this inquiry could be of no public service. If he (Mr. Clay) thought that the hon. Member gave expression to the sentiments entertained by any considerable number of the persons interested in Joint - stock Banks, when he stated this opinion, he for one should consider it as the strongest possible reason why the inquiry ought to be proceeded with, and he would further add, if such opinions were entertained by the parties to whom he had referred, it was
 185
 Sir W. Follett  agreed with the suggestion of his right hon. Friend. He thought that many of the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny were totally without foundation. The learned Judge had no discretion, but was bound to remove the plea from the record, on the ground that Mr. Hansard had not thought fit to stand upon the defence that he had printed the Report by the authority of the House alone; but he had also pleaded the general issue, and had, moreover, taken upon himself to plead that the allegations which were printed were in point of fact true. He having so done, upon a summons being taken out before the learned
 142
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that after what appeared to have been the sense of the House the other night, it would be useless on his part, to offer any opposition to the appointment of this Committee. The in-
 204
 Viscount Palmerston  would only say with respect to the capture referred to by the hon. Gentleman, that the circumstances attending it were now under the consideration of the King's Advocate, and until the report of that Officer should be received as to the bearings of international law upon this question, his Majesty's Government would be unable to form a decision on the case. With respect to levying tolls at the mouth of the Danube, several communications had passed between his Majesty's Government and that of Russia, who disclaimed any intention of interfering with the commerce of England by the exaction of those duties. By the treaty of Adrianople, which ceded the Delta of the Danube, and thereby the embouchure of that river to Russia, a power to enforce the observance of a quarantine was given; but it had been expressly stipulated that those rights should not interfere with the navigation of vessels proceeding to the upper parts of the Danube.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, there had been no correspondence at present on the subject.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that his Majesty's Government had received through their diplomatic Agents, copies of the tariff to which the hon. Member had referred, and which was, he understood, to come into operation in April next. The character of that measure was exactly described by the hon. Member, it was not only unfair to the British trade in Portugal, but it would prove, he thought, injurious to the Portuguese commerce itself, unless the Government of that country should avail themselves of the intervening period to reflect on the propriety of altering their line of conduct and annulling the decree in question. If left in force,
 133
 Mr. O'Connell  said, Sir, I concur in the pleasure these cheers manifest to be entertained by the hon. Gentlemen at the other side, at the speech we have just heard from the hon. and learned Sergeant. I must say I never heard any speech with more complete delight. As for the personal attack on myself, that is perfectly beneath my dignity to notice. It certainly does not alloy the satisfaction with which I listened to the rest of the discourse. I have not arrived at my present time of life without learning to value the abuse of some whose praise would be censure indeed. All I ask the hon. and learned Sergeant is never to praise me; let him do with me what else he pleases. The satisfaction which T derive from the speech of the hon. and learned Sergeant, is founded upon two grounds; firstly, that if he has any material of political candour about him, he has taken up a course from which he cannot with any dignity retire; and, secondly, that he has avowedly displayed himself as the organ for the opposition of his Majesty's Ministers. There is no disguise now, they have made him their champion; they have bound their cause with his, and it is impossible that the right hon. Baronet himself can be more explicit upon the course they propose to adopt than the hon. and learned Sergeant has been. The coalition sitting on that bench is now undisguised in its features, which announce that there is to be no peace for Ireland but
 261
 Mr. O'Connell : I have been assailed in the coarsest language; however I will not retaliate as far as relates to myself, but I certainly think I am entitled to speak about the contemptuous attack made on Mr. Pigott. Mr. Cassidy has also been alluded to by the learned Sergeant, who makes a great point about his having been refused to be certified as a proper person for a magistrate by a certain noble Lord. Now, I want to know whether Mr. Cassidy ever was a candidate against a son of the noble Lord in question, putting him to the expense of a contested election. If so, that is quite sufficient to account for the refusal of his certificate, Why did not
 262 263 264 265 s. d. s. d., 266 267 268 269
 Sir G. Clerk  wished to call the attention of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, not to the terms of the motion in the hands of the chair, but to what had fallen from the noble Lord, the representative of his Majesty's Government in that House. The noble Lord staled, that if the motion he proposed was the mere subject of the debate, he could not suppose the discussion would be long, but he rejoiced in this opportunity of discussing the whole course of the present Government in Ireland. The noble Lord, at great length, had justified the whole conduct of the Irish Government, and went into the whole political state of Ireland. Now, when the noble Lord was met on his own ground— when he found that the debate did not turn out so convenient or agreeable as he anticipated—[ Order, order.
 Colonel Conolly  having moved the 13th resolution, at the meeting alluded to by the noble Lord opposite, felt himself bound to state his reasons for so doing. That meeting was assembled for the purpose of seeking redress by appeals to the proper powers, and the noble Lord in animadverting on the meeting, only stated what suited his own purposes. This was not generous in the noble Lord, who ought to have read the entire resolutions. The meeting of Protestants was called forth by the sense of injury, and their object was to petition for redress. That would be seen from the resolutions, and he was prepared to prove every assertion made in them. The meeting was called exclusive, but it was not so exclusive as the conduct of Ministers, who placed every engine of Government at the foot of the man whom they formerly reviled and derided. The abuse of patronage which had taken place could be proved in the case of Mr. Gibson, whose sole object appeared to be, to vitiate votes on one side. On the authority of a magistrate—[ "Name!" 292 293
 Lord John Russell  spoke to the following effect. * "My Lords and Gentlemen,—His Majesty has more especially commanded us to bring under your notice the state of Ireland, and the wisdom of adopting all such measures as may improve the condition of that part of the United Kingdom. His Majesty recommends to your early consideration the present constitution of the municipal corporations of that country, the collection of tithes, and the difficult but pressing question of establishing some legal provision for the poor, guarded by prudent regulations, and by such precautions against abuse, as your experience and knowledge of the subject enable you to suggest. His Majesty commits these great interests into your hands, in the confidence that you will be able to frame laws in accordance with the wishes of his Majesty and the expectation of his people. His Majesty is persuaded that, should this hope be fulfilled, you will not only contribute to the welfare of Ireland, but strengthen the law and constitution of these realms by securing their benefits to all classes of his Majesty's subjects."
 Lord John Russell  then said: Although feel no immediate apprehension as to the result of the motion which I am about to make this evening, yet the subject which I am to introduce, is of such importance, and I am so fully aware that the political condition of Ireland is difficult to treat, that I approach it with very great anxiety. United as we are with that country, and although I do not believe that the people of England are either hostile or indifferent to the welfare of the people of Ireland, yet I must confess, that so much misapprehension and misinformation on the subject exist; that misrepresentations are so easily believed, and with so much difficulty dispelled; false impressions are so readily received, and with so much dif-
 * 207 l. l. 208 209 210 211 212 213 divide et impera, 214 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 223 224 225 "Call it madness, call it folly, You shall not chase my grief away; There's such a charm in melancholy, I would not, if I could, be gay." 226 l. l. l. 227 l. l. 228 229 aliens, 230 231 232 233
 Lord John Russell  explained. He did not mean to say but that those Gentlemen were eminent and respectable. He had merely used the argument that there ought to be unity in an administration—that it ought to be animated by the same views of policy.
 Mr. Shaw  rejoiced to learn from the Chair that he was in order. The noble Lord opposite had challenged his side of the House to make out a case or ground of complaint on behalf of the Protestants of Ireland, and it was in answer to that challenge that his observations were directed. The hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny at the Carlow dinner proceeded (after the quotation he had already read) as follows:—"They have an unholy eminence and bad notoriety; but it is like the lurid glow which is said to belong to those demons of hell of a higher order, and marks them out above their satanic compeers. Well, you have all this on one side; you have the 10 l O'Connell 279 Kilkenny Journal 280 281 "Our green flag fluttering o'er us, The friends we've tried There by my side, And the foes we hate before us." 282
 Mr. Shaw  said, the charges made by the learned Member who had just sat down, against the hon. Member for Ban-don, appeared perfectly unfounded. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had sneered at the hon. Sergeant's speech as being unanswerable. Certainly it had not been answered by him. He would first touch on the facts which had been stated, and then on the comments made by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny. That hon. Gentleman had accused the hon. Member for Bandon of having made gross personal attacks on persons of an unblemished character, and ranking high in their profession. For himself, he could assert that he heard none. All the assertions of the learned Sergeant had been made in a most proper spirit. To take the different cases brought forward, and to commence with that of Mr. Tighe. The
 270 271 272 Freeman's Journal. 273 "JUSTICE TO IRELAND AND TO ENGLAND. "No ministry ever had so glorious a career before them. Ireland, after more than six centuries of unmitigated oppression, is ready for conciliation, for union, for identification, with Britain. The first dawn of impartiality is the first exhibition of dutiful tranquillity. The great national question can, nay, must, now be decided—are the Irish people to be fellow-subjects, or are they to be—I will write it—enemies? "Lord Melbourne may blot out the enmity forever; he may make the Irish willing and most useful subjects. But for this purpose— and I joy that it should be so—he must satisfy the rational portion of the English people. He must content the English and Scotch Dissenters—they ask only for 'justice.' He must become the advocate of an increased and extended franchise. He must consent to shorten the duration of Parliament. He must not shrink from the ballot. Above all, he must prepare for the conflict with the Lords," 274 275 276 277
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that as there was then no business before the House, and as the noble Secretary for Ireland was in his place, he thought this was a fitting opportunity to ask what were the intentions of his Majesty's Government with respect to the introduction of an Irish Tithe Bill? whether such a measure might be looked for before Easter? and whether it would be then carried through the House as rapidly as the Municipal Corporation Bill, which stood for discussion that evening? The tithe question was merely glanced at in a cursory way in his Majesty's Speech; but it was one which, by a large proportion of the religious and intelligent classes of Scotland as well as elsewhere, was deemed of paramount importance, involving, as the appropriation clause was considered to do, the very principle of an ecclesiastical establishment. He therefore hoped that no time would be lost in allaying the public anxiety on this subject, especially as it was the very question upon which his Majesty's Ministers had recovered possession of their places on the Treasury bench; and that the Bill would not be timidly, and at long intervals, carried through this House at so late a period of the Session, that, if rejected in another place, no Member who took an interest in the condition of the Irish clergy could find time to bring forward a less objectionable measure in its place.
 The Speaker  rose to order. He was understood to say, that although the hon. Member doubtless felt that he had received some provocation for what he was saying, he thought he would do well to express himself in more moderate words.
 The Speaker  said, that the question before the House strictly related to the motion of the noble Lord for leave to bring in a Bill on the subject of Municipal Corporations in Ireland, yet that subject had certainly been debated in connexion with the whole state and condition of Ireland, and therefore he (the Speaker) was not prepared, in answer to the question of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, to say that the
 278
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. The question before the House was for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the Municipal Corporations in Ireland, and he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman in the chair whether it was in order on that question to discuss any speech that might have been made by a Member of this House at a public dinner on matters not coming in any way within the scope of the question now before it.
 Mr. Roebuck  humbly submitted to those who preceded him, at least to some of them, that there might have been a more useful way of conducting this discussion than that which they had pursued. It seemed to him that the bandying about from one side of the House to the other expressions that would not have been suffered elsewhere, did not conduce to the dignity of the House, or to the respect which the people out of doors ought to feel towards it. It seemed to him that, standing as they did in the high character of the representatives of a great nation, they ought to conduct their deliberations with that calmness, soberness, and decorum that would gain them the respect of all reasonable and respectable men. It appeared to him that the tone and manner—he said it under all correction—that the manner and tone of Gentlemen, particularly belonging to Ireland, had been to-night, and to-night was not a solitary instance of such a nature— judging with the feelings of an Englishman who had not mixed much with Irishmen—
 285 286 hon. Member, 287 288 289 "No no!" from the Opposition. 290 291
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  had not at all misapprehended the argument of the noble Lord. He did not suppose—indeed it was impossible that the noble Lord could have meant to say anything disparaging to either of the learned Gentlemen. But what did the noble Lord mean by saying that neither of the three successive Attorney-Generals for Ireland, who had come into office under Lord Mulgrave, would have continued in office under a Tory government? Did the noble Lord think that either Mr. Blackburne or Mr. Pennefather would remain one moment in office under such a government as that of Lord Mulgrave? It was impossible that men animated by their feelings could re-
 236 237 238 divide et impera. 239 imperium in imperio, 240 241 242 243 244 l. 245 regime 246 247
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, he rose not certainly for the purpose of opposing the motion of the noble Lord, but he felt it to be his duty, as one of the persons who had been particularly alluded to by the noble Lord, to justify the part which he had taken, in common with his brother Protestants in Ireland, on the occasion to which the noble Lord referred. But before he proceeded to that part of the subject which consisted in a justification of that great meeting, he thought it right not to
 234 235
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  would not make a further observation, on this case, Being
 252 253 Morpeth: 254 255 Morpeth: ore tenus 256 257 258 O'Connell: 259 O'Connell: 260
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  would not hesitate to say, that though he respected the individual in his private character, though he was a gentleman of high station in his profession, he would say, with the very greatest respect towards that individual, that it was utterly unbecoming—he was going to say indecent—but it was an improper, a most improper, proceeding on the part of his Majesty's Government in Ireland to appoint a member of the Roman Catholic Association to an office of this sort. He begged pardon of the House for trespassing on their attention. He would ask what was the nature of this situation to which Mr. Pigott had been appointed? Was it not perfectly well known that it was the most important office connected with the Irish executive government? It was one of the most important offices connected with the administration of the law, and with the peace of the country. It was the department through which the entire correspondence with the magistracy of Ireland passed. It was through the law adviser's office that every question passed that arose in Ireland. He was the individual whose opinion was taken upon the communications of the magistracy of the country, of the constabulary, and the police, as to the various difficulties that might arise in the execution of their duties. If a collision took place in the assertion of a tithe claim—if a call were made for the intervention of the constabulary—if a call were made for the military, he was the person to be consulted as to the pro-

 248 de facto 249 250 251 eo nomine
 Mr. O'Conor  deprecated the attacks on private character which had been so unsparingly indulged in during the debate on the question before the House. The hon. and gallant Member, who last spoke, had assailed the character of Mr. Gibson. Mr. Gibson was a private friend of his, and from his own knowledge of him, he should have no hesitation in saying, that the hon. and gallant Member must have been misinformed in what he stated respecting him. The hon. Member had also seemed to doubt the declaration of the noble Lord who spoke last, respecting the impossibility of procuring admission to the Protestant meeting in Dublin: but he had been informed, that no one was permitted to be present, unless he signed a document, purporting to be his adhesion or conformity with the principles to be there promulgated. With regard to the National Association, he felt bound to say, that he regretted its existence—but he regretted more the cause which had created it. That cause was, the denial of their just rights to the people of Ireland. In connexion with the fact of his becoming a member of it, he was free to say, that he did so because he knew the country was excited on the subject of that denial, and because he believed it would afford the only safe vent for the ebullition of the angry feelings of the people. They were charged with being agitators. The Tories were the great agitators. They withheld justice until it was extorted from them; and only yielded their rights to the people when they could no longer retain them. That was the case with Catholic Emancipation. In withholding that, until it was forced from them by the threatening combination of an entire people, they had shown them, that when they required redress, they should not stand on their right to it, but on their power to compel it: and that to obtain it they should appeal, not to their sense
 294
 Lord Clements  said, he would try to bring the House back to the question before it, and from which so great a departure had been made in the course of the debate which had taken place. The question before the House was the present state and condition of Ireland. The hon. and learned Sergeant opposite had urged the existence of the National Association of Dublin, as being dangerous to the peace of the country; he had attributed partiality in judicial appointments, and various other things to the Irish Government as at present constituted, but he had avoided one fact well worthy the consideration of the House and the country, namely,—'that Ireland was now more tranquil and peaceful than she had ever been at any period of our history. If that peace had been brought about by any unfair leaning against the Protestants, he would be the last man to attempt to vindicate the Government. He stood there himself a Protestant of Ireland, and as a Protestant he claimed to be heard, having been expressly excluded from the recent Protestant Meeting in Dublin. The hon. and learned Sergeant had endeavoured to create an alarm among certain Irish Peers, by asking whether the course pursued by the Government was not calculated to weaken the rights of property. He had asked noble Lords if they were not afraid of their acres. The appeal had been answered by the declaration and protest, signed by the great body of Irish Peers and Members of Parliament, in which they stated they were convinced the policy of the present Government was the safeguard of property in Ireland. The thing which provoked hon. Members on the opposite benches was, that Ireland should be tranquil without their assistance. He rested on that point, and would tell them, that since Lord Mulgrave had presided over the destinies of Ireland, that country was more quiet than their Whiteboy regulation ever could have made her. It had been attempted to be shown that a connexion existed between the Government and the Association. He admitted, that the majority of the people of Ireland were desirous of organic changes. Considering their state and condition, that desire was only natural, and so it would seem,
 283 284
 Viscount Morpeth : No such place has become vacant since I left Ireland, and consequently no such appointment can have taken place.
 Viscount Morpeth : I will give the hon. and learned Sergeant's question an immediate answer. I do not know whether the appointment has yet actually taken place; but it is certainly intended.
 Viscount Morpeth  was not aware whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to bring forward the Irish
 206
 Mr. Lefroy  commenced by observing upon the extreme inaccuracy of the calculations made by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and he would say, that if his promises with respect to the rest of the representation of Ireland were no better founded than with respect to Longford, he would have a very small account to render in any succeeding Parliament of a gain to his side of the House. The hon. Member had appealed to him to state his opinion as to the legality or illegality of the Association. If he could have ever entertained any doubt on the subject, the argument of his hon. Friend (Mr. Sergeant Jackson) was enough to banish any such doubt from his mind, as, without question, it had banished doubt from the mind of the House. In his opinion, any body of men uniting their efforts and applying their funds for the purpose of obstructing the execution of the law, and defeating the rights of property, must of necessity be an illegal association. The noble Lord
 312 313 ex mero meto. 314 315 l., l., 316 l.
 Colonel Conolly : I beg the noble Lord's pardon. I alluded to the subject myself not long after the transaction took place.
 Colonel Butler  rose to order. He had not been dismissed by the Chancellor of Ireland. He had himself resigned. The Lord Chancellor had called on him for an explanation, which he declined to give, and his resignation was the consequence.
 Lord John Russell : I rise to explain. I have denied on two previous occasions the correctness of the language attributed to me by the right hon. Gentleman. I do not mean to say, that he has any intention to misrepresent what I really did say, but he is incorrect in imputing to me that language. I said on the occasion alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, that we were bound to remove the just complaints of the people of Ireland; and one of those just grounds of complaint was the present appropriation of the tithe revenue in Ireland. If the right hon. Baronet will take the trouble to refer to any record of what then took place, he will find that 1 then stated what I now repeat. The observation was imputed to me at the time by another right hon. Gentleman, and I then took an opportunity of setting him right.
 Lord John Russell , in reply, said, in bringing forward the motion he had endeavoured to avoid topics which could be more conveniently discussed on the second reading, and confine himself strictly to the topics which belonged to the introduction of the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had complained of the course which he had adopted, and had expressed his surprise that the three great questions affecting Ireland, namely, Corporation Reform, Poor laws and the Church of Ireland, had not been brought under the notice of the House in his opening speech. But he should scarcely have done his duty if he had mixed up Poor-laws which gentlemen of every party were ready to enter into free from party feelings, with a question which had already been, and will be again, the cause of party contention. He
 402 403 404 405
 Mr. Lucas  said, that hon. Gentlemen who had taken part in this debate on the Ministerial side of the House, had placed the discussion upon a ground which he considered to be totally false—not false in principle, but false, as applicable to this particular question. That the Irish people were fit to govern themselves, was an abstract proposition with which, in the present debate, they ad nothing to do. The question at issue was, whether the Bill of the noble Lord would produce good or evil to Ireland, and, through Ireland to the British empire at large. He conceived the question was not to be put, abstractedly, whether the Irish people were more or less fit than the people of other countries to govern themselves. That was a mode of putting the question, indeed, which was popular in that House and still
 301 302 303 304
 Mr. Henry Grattan  would endeavour to avoid imitation of the very bad example set by the debaters of last night, for he neither liked their style nor their language. The question really before the House was, whether Ireland should be governed by the same laws as England; and it was most essentially the question; because, if Ireland were not to be so governed, not only ought the Emancipation Act to be repealed, but the Act of Union with it, for the situation of Ireland would be worse than it was before the Union. By their own Acts, in the year 1782, they had declared, that Ireland should be governed by equal laws with England. The same principle had long before been promulgated by a King who had gone over to Ireland to pass an Act; the same principle had been frankly assented to by one of the Henries. If, then, that principle was one which for years had been acknowledged to be fraught with sound policy by Englishmen, and one which to disregard, or rather not to enforce, would be mischievous in its consequences to Ireland, he could not conceive why the House should hesitate to adopt it. If his countrymen were not to have the benefit of English laws, then he must say, that their condition was worse than it had been before the Union; for then, if they had not English, they at least had their own laws; and, indeed, he could recollect an instance when an express recommendation to imitate English legislation, was given by the House to Irish senators. It had been said, that they had no right to form the Association which had been so vehemently denounced. Now, what had Lord Grey said, when, in the year 1792, he found himself compelled to despair of reform? He said, that he must appeal to the people; and that by meetings, and committees, and associations, that measure would eventually be carried. This was not said by an agitator—it was not said by a Member of that House—but it was said by a Peer, and a Peer pledged to "stand by
 309 310 311
 Mr. Hardy  would assert that Ireland was not fit for the municipal institutions proposed to be granted. It was a plausible argument, that Ireland ought to be admitted to equal rights with Scotland and England. If the population of Ireland were of the same description with that of Scotland and England, this position would be undeniable. But was there in England and Scotland an association established to resist in a rebellious manner, rights established by the Legislature?
 305 Leeds Mercury. posse comitatus, posse comitatus, 306 307 308
 Mr. Hardy : The hon. Member has misunderstood me. I said, if the conduct of the people of Ireland were of the same description with that of the people of England. I did not say, if the people of Ireland were of the same description with the people of England.
 Mr. West : In whatever mode the hon. Gentleman's resignation took place, the fact of his resignation, and of the Lord Chancellor having called on him for the explanation, was sufficient for his argument. It was, at all events, certain that the party with whom the hon. Gentleman acted had very generally expressed a desire to have him reinstated. On the 26th of August last, in the National Association, Mr. Finn observed that, "It was with great pleasure he proposed, as a member of the Association, the hon. Colonel Butler, who was one of that Mountgarret family whose blood had been shed in the field, or upon the scaffold, to support the rights of Irishmen. He was properly known as the poor man's magistrate, and he would tell Lord Plunkett that he was depreciating the character
 333 l. 334 l. l. l. l., Spectator 335 336 "There was no measure of the present Government which I was more inclined to approve, for their tact and policy, than the manner in which they succeeded in doing away with the Orange societies of Ireland; at the same time, I must consider that the constitutional and manly way in which those societies, by the advice of their leaders, met their wishes, 'has been anything but fairly acknowledged or requited.' "A society has been permitted to raise itself, as it were, upon their ruins, whose avowed objects and policy must, in my humble opinion, eventually destroy the Government itself—a Government which they affect to extol, but which they clearly show, by, their own conduct, they most heartily despise
 337 "These are no times for half measures. I have read your address with attention, and think the unjust and ungenerous conduct of Mr. O'Connell and his followers towards the Protestants of Ireland fully bears out the prayer of your petition, to which I beg you will subscribe my name. "Faithfully yours, "JAMES L. W. NAPER. "The Marquess of Downshire, &c."
 Mr. West : As one of the persons who took a part in the proceedings of the Protestant meeting in Dublin, and who entirely concurred in every resolution passed at that meeting, hoped he might presume to address some observations to the House. The course which the debate had taken had, whether intended or not, involved him in some difficulty. The noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, had come down to the House a few nights ago, and in announcing his intention to introduce a very important measure had also expressed his determination to enter upon the subject of the resolutions passed at the Dublin meeting; and to open and discuss the whole subject of his Majesty's Government in Ireland. The noble Lord kept his word. Of a speech of great ability and considerable length, three-fourths were devoted to the motives and insignificance of that meeting, challenging proofs, and demanding contradiction upon matters which had little relevancy to the Bill about to be introduced, but which had a most important reference to the proceedings of that meeting, and to the conduct of his Majesty's Government in Ireland. What was the plain object of this? The noble Lord, either in a confidence in the strength of his own case, or in ignorance of the case of his opponents, hoped to introduce to the public notice a measure of very great importance, accompanied with such a popular impression as he trusted would be made by the history of his administration in Ireland. Then came the reply of his hon. and learned Friend. He knew not to what hon. Gentleman on the opposite side the duty of answering that speech was allotted—for that duty was still to be performed—that eloquent and admirable speech, which the candour even of his adversaries would admit presented a powerful case in defence of his friends, and a strong inculpation of the measures of his opponents. In this situation the hon. Member for Bath came forward, and with a sincere, or at all events a well-affected, surprise at the irregularity of the debate, expressing his astonishment that it was not strictly confined to the question of the Bill, undertook to deliver a very eloquent lecture to
 321 322 323 en route 324 325 326 viva voce 327 Limerick Evening Post, 328 329 Dublin Freeman's Journal 330 "Is it (asked Mr. Canning,) possible that any man loking at an association of this nature—at the means, the power, the preponderance of which that association is acknowledged—nay, is vaunted to be in possession—at the authority which it has arrogated, and at the acts which it has done—
 331 332
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  begged, in explanation, distinctly to state that the letter to which the noble Lord had referred, as having been read by him (Mr. Sergeant Jackson), was a genuine letter, and was addressed, not to the inspector, but to the governor of the gaol.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  said, that the question at issue was, whether the Irish were to be considered British subjects or not—whether they were to be stamped as inferior to Englishmen—whether they were to be trampled on and insulted. In what he meant to say on the subject he should make no personal observations, but should follow the course pursued by the hon. Member for Bath, whom he had heard with great delight. He should not take example by the hon. and learned Member for Bandon; neither should he adopt that held out by the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin; and, above all, he should not be influenced by that of the hon. and gallant Member for Donegal, who, with a delicacy not to be equalled, held up Mr. Hudson to the odium of the House on a charge affecting his character as a professional man and a gentleman, while he declined to disclose the name of the magistrate on whose authority he made the allegation against him. The real question before the House was, whether corporate reform was to be refused to Ireland or not? What plea had the opponents of the Irish people to withhold it? He was aware that it had been urged over and over again that corporations in Ireland would become normal schools of agitation; and he knew that the supporters of the measure were accused of improper motives. But while the enemies of the people of Ireland were refusing to celebrate the bans between the corporations and the Catholics of that country the delay gave birth to the fearful progeny of the National Association. He would ask whether even the normal schools contained more elements of agitation than that Association—those normal schools of which so much fear was affected? He would ask, whether they were more to be dreaded at their worst than the consequences of that denial of justice which at once converted a whole nation
 296 297
 Mr. Wakley : As the hon. and learned Member denied the expressions, he was bound, of course, to accept his denial but he had taken down the words of the hon. and learned Member at the time, and he was happy to find that the hon. and learned Member did not mean them to apply in the sense in which he had taken them. He should therefore abstain from further remark upon them. If the hon. and learned Member had used them, he
 318 319 320
 Mr. Wakley  complained of the very irregular nature of the present discussion. The noble Lord on his side of the House, in the very excellent and admirable speech which he had made last night, had gone fully into the question of Irish politics, and had challenged the fullest discussion into it from the other side. In consequence, he did not complain so much of what had been done on the other side as of what had been done on his side of the House; but after the challenge which the noble Lord had thrown out last night to the Gentlemen opposite, he thought that if the accusations which they had brought against Lord Mulgrave were true, or if they believed them to be true, a feeling of justice and decorum would indicate to them, that if they did not dare to impeach Lord Mulgrave, when they said that they had in their possession proofs to support an impeachment, they ought not to pester the House again with such observations as those which they had recently addressed
 317
 Mr. W. Roche  said: Permit me first to advert to what fell from a right hon. and judicial Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin, last night, respecting a near relative and esteemed friend of mine, Mr. O'Brien, of Elmvale, in the county of Clare, who the right hon. Gentleman stated was selected by the Lord-Lieutenant for the shrievalty of that county, notwithstanding his not having been on the judge's list of high sheriff's; and notwithstanding some observations of his at a dinner given by their constituents to the Members of (the right hon. Gentleman mistakenly said) the county of Limerick—but he should have said to those for the city of Limerick, namely, my hon. Colleague and myself, at which Mr. O'Brien presided, and at which entertainment (the right hon. Gentleman added) waved banners with—"Repeal of the Union," "Short Parliaments," "Vote by Ballot," &c., &c., inserted thereon. In the first instance one would suppose that this dinner was of recent occurrence, whereas it took place some four or five years ago, at a period when we had a government which, though not actually a Tory one, was unfortunately so far at least as regarded Ireland, imbued with and actuated by the most Tory principles, and which shortly after passed that most offensive and unconstitutional, because unnecessary measure, the Coercion Bill; unnecessary, because the laws, if actually put inforce, were quite adequate to suppress the outrages of the day without any such coercive enactment. What species of banners were exhibited on that occasion I certainly can not now call to my recollection, but I can call to memory that the
 298 299 300
 Sir James Graham : I confess that I have waited with some impatience during the long and somewhat desultory discussion which has taken place, to hear the defence of the Irish Government from some one of the confidential advisers of his Majesty. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Kilkenny, was pleased last night to throw out some taunt with regard to coalitions on this side of the House, and the hon. and learned Member for Bath was pleased also to point a sarcasm at my inconsistency. Now, Sir, I have been guilty of no low intrigue; I have done nothing secretly or covertly. Everything which I have done has been done in the face of day. I have concealed nothing. I am ashamed of nothing. I have sacrificed no principle. I have compromised no opinion. I rejoice in that
 361 arbiter elegantiarum, 362 "Quæ perpetuo sunt agitata manent." Quæ perpetuo sunt agitata, 363 364 365
 Sir James Graham : The occasion when the words were uttered was one when circumstances occurred which have made a lasting and powerful impression on my mind, and I thought that I had quoted the noble Lord correctly, but I am happy in being set right. I was, however, curious to know what the noble Lord would say of
 366 367 368 369 370 371 * * 372 373 * * 374 375 376 377 378 379 380
 Sir James Graham  was understood to disclaim applying it to the noble Lord in the manner described by the right hon. Baronet.
 Sir J. Graham  rose to order. There was no person less disposed than he was to interrupt the course of the debate: but he appealed to the Speaker whether, when the right hon. Gentleman proceeded to impute motives, he did not exceed the order of debate.
 Sir J. C. Hobhouse : I do not think I am open to the reprehension of the right hon. Baronet. I certainly said I could trace the motives; perhaps I ought to have said the intention. I do not mean to say anything whatever which can be construed into a want of courtesy to the right hon. Gentleman; but what I meant to say was this, that I thought I could trace repeatedly the hand of the right hon. Gentleman in an attempt to disconnect Lord Grey and those Friends of his who form the present Government, and those who happen to think with him. I had not the honour of being a member of the Cabinet of Lord Grey; but I had the honour of holding two high official situations under the right hon. Gentleman and under the noble Lord; and I had the honour of having the office of the Irish Secretaryship handed over to me. But this I can say, that if the right hon. Gentleman thinks to discredit us with some of the followers or Friends of Lord Grey who happen not to agree with those now connected with the Government—I must tell him this, that I have the best authority for saying that the noble and illustrious person referred to never has accused the Government of Lord Melbourne, and never had the right to complain, that they acted in any way that he could complain of. I do say that we are doing nothing more nor less than this, that we have attempted to carry on a great principle. This Administration is but the offspring of the Reform Bill. This Administration is but the offspring of that Bill, of which the right hon. Gentleman was one of the framers, and of which the
 383 384 385 386 387
 Sir J. Hobhouse : Did not the right hon. Baronet mean to apply it to the Administration of which the right hon. Baronet was a Member? By so applying it, I hope I am not guilty of any discourtesy in throwing back the imputation, and telling the right hon. Gentleman that no such motive influences his Majesty's Ministers in the conduct they pursue; and if the right hon. Gentleman can find for his charge no greater proof than that which he has brought forward to-night, I am quite confident that the country will not pass such a sentence as he has pronounced upon us. My right hon. Friend seems to think that it is for some base objects we are now sitting here—that it is for the mere emoluments, the mere power, that office confers that we condescend to sit here, and to be baited by him every night. I trust that the right hon. Gentleman has had too much experience of the personal honour if not of the political conduct of his former Friends, to believe that they are capable of acting in a manner so completely incompatible with the honour of English Gentlemen. I do not know what pleasure the right hon. Gentleman can find in thus perpetually putting forward such charges. But I wish to call this to his recollection, that when a man changes his opinions (I do not mean to say the right hon. Gentleman has done so); but when a man changes to another side of the House (and no one has a right to object to that); but this I say, that a man may act magnanimously without carrying into his new position a perpetual bitterness against his ancient allies. The right hon. Gentleman
 382
 Sir John Hobhouse : The applauses which proceed from hon. Gentlemen on the other side are very natural upon the conclusion of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. Will the House now allow me to make a few comments upon the remarks which he has made? I mean to do so not altogether in the tone adopted by my right hon. Friend, if he will permit me still so to call him. I mean to attempt recalling the House of Commons to that which in fact is the subject matter of debate. But in doing so I think that it is due in the first place to myself, as to others, to the noble and hon. persons with whom I have the honour to be connected, to make one or two comments upon that which formed, in my opinion, the spirit of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, and which was directed against a noble Lord who holds a place at present in his Majesty's Administration. And why was this? Because that noble Lord happened to have used an ingenious quotation in the other House of Parliament. For this he has been subjected by
 381
 Sir Robert Peel : I should infer, Sir, that, as it is not intended to take the division in this stage of the proceedings, it might suit the general convenience that the debate should be brought to a close. If I am wrong in that impression, I am perfectly ready to give way to what may be the prevailing opinion respecting the adjournment. But if the general wish is that this debate should be brought to a close, I am ready so far to give effect to that wish, as to make now the few observations which I have to make. I say the few observations, because I am almost ashamed to rise after the speech of my right hon. Friend who sits on my left hand, and after that attempt at a reply, heard from a Minister of the Crown. I know and I respect the ability of that right hon. Gentleman—and what inference do I draw from his failure? Not that his powers have deserted him, but that he felt the utter impossibility of contending with the speech which he followed, but which he did not attempt to answer. I have been rather surprised by the course which this debate has taken. His Majesty called our attention, in the Speech from the Throne, to the state of Ireland. He especially commanded the Commissioners to bring under our notice the state of Ireland, and the wisdom of adopting all such measures as may improve the condition of that part of the United Kingdom. His Majesty recommended an early consideration, in the same sentence, of three great measures—the constitution of the municipal body in Ireland, the question of the Church, and the question of the application of poor-laws to Ireland. And when the noble Lord intimated to us that he did not intend, in moving for leave to bring in the Municipal Bill, to confine himself to the discussion of the abstract merits of that question, but would enter into the general question of the state of Ireland, I took it for granted it was his intention to take a comprehensive view of the condition of that country, and to afford us an outline of each of the three great measures alluded to in his Majesty's Speech. What, however, was the course which the noble Lord, the leader of the House of Commons, took on opening the subject? He fixed on a resolution which had been passed by a body of Gentlemen,
 388 389 390 John Russell: Hamlet Hamlet Ophelia 391 392 animus 393 sine qua non 394 395 396 Tom Thumb. King Lord Grizzle King 397 398 399 400 401
 Viscount Morpeth  addressed the House to the following effect:—As the matters of charge alleged against the conduct of his Majesty's Government in Ireland, especially in the course of the present debate, have not been freely and spontaneously brought forward, but have been dragged forth by the speech of my noble Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department; as my noble Friend in that speech addressed himself to the conduct of his Majesty's Government in Ireland, and the principle on which that conduct had been founded; and as holding the situation which I have the honour to hold I may not be considered a fair and impartial judge upon that question, I would willingly have avoided obtruding myself on the attention of the House on the present occasion. But, at the same time, so many things have been stated here and elsewhere (some of which, however, I shall hardly think it worth my while to stoop to notice), that, placed as I am with reference to the Government of Ireland, I cannot permit myself the indulgence of complete silence. I must also so far presume on the patience of the House as to observe, that whereas the speech of my noble Friend rested upon general and broad principles, and dwelt on large and important results, and was mainly encountered by isolated cases and minute details, I feel that in the situation which I have the honour to fill I may be compelled to go more into those cases and details than the House would expect any other Member to do. Sir, I have been twitted by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin with having; taken time since
 338 339 340 341 "Clonmel, Dec. 19, 1836. "MY DEAR SIR—Your letter of the 16th I have been unable to answer until this day. I now forward you a return of the convictions at Quarter Sessions for the last three years, in which you will perceive very little difference, except in cases of bodily injury inflicted between man and man, a great increase in larceny cases, but the affrays or riots have decreased most wonderfully, as the number of convictions for the last year do not amount to the total of either of the two preceding years, although the greater part of the convictions under this head were of persons who ought to have been brought to trial before your appointment. I may safely say, faction rights are at an end, never to revive in this county. The only way to judge of the real state of the county is by the convictions; these speak facts not subject to newspaper misrepresentation. On looking over the informations for next Cashel and Nenagh General Quarter Sessions, I do not find one single instance of serious riot. This justifies my assertion, and will, I hope, convince you of the very improved state we are now in. "Should you wish for convictions at Assizes, I can procure you copies of the different rules of court for any period you wish, on my hearing from you. "I have the honour to be, my dear Sir, your most faithful servant, "YADLIN. "John Howley, Esq., &c." 342 
 
 Year ending Jan. 1, 1836. Year ending Jan. 1, 1837. 
 For Riots 262 65 
 For Assaults 194 123 
 For Rescues 153 57 
 Grievous Assaults 172 84 
 Forcible possession 24 15 "Gentlemen of the Grand Jury—The few observations which I shall have the honour to address to you, on the great and signal dimi-
 343 344 "The civil business of the present Session I never recollect to be so heavy, nor the Crown business so light. The mercy extended by his Excellency, during his visit to his country, has fallen with a softening influence upon the popular mind, and has contributed much to the tranquillity which prevails." "My Lord—Having lately seen some attacks on the Government, in consequence of the liberation of prisoners by his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, last summer, I take the liberty of informing your Lordship, that out of fifty-seven prisoners discharged from our county gaol, by the Lord Lieutenant's commands, only one has been recommitted, though the interval that has elapsed is nearly six months. This solitary case is that of an idiot." "This information your Lordship may rely on, as I have taken care to as certain its accuracy; and further, it has scarcely ever occurred, that any such number of persons has left the gaol without some of them having been recommitted, even within a much shorter period. It is, therefore, quite certain, that in this county his Excellency's clemency has been attended with the best effects. I have the honour to be, "Your Lordship's very obedient humble Servant, "DENNIS PHELAN, "Surgeon to the County of Tipperary Gaol." 345 "That the signatures to the certificates sent might be confirmed; and that no doubt the patty would prove an acquisition to the establishment, and that the grievance of the applicant was of a new character, Tipperary being so quiet that the police had no business to do there." 346 "Lifford, August 13, 1836. "SIR—Agreeable to your wish, expressed in your letter to the Governor, I have with him selected such cases as we feel justified in recommending to his Excellency's humane consideration. "With reference to those convicted of assault, I have not recommended any case in which there was waylaying proved, or any other circumstance of an aggravated nature. In all cases recommended I have been influenced by a feeling of commiseration for the innocent families of those confined. "I have the honour to be, &c. &c. (Signed) "E. M. CLARKE, "Local Inspector and Chaplain." "Lieutenant-Colonel Yorke." 347 The Evening Mail. The Londonderry Sentinel, Evening Mail, "Copy of a letter from the Rev. F. M. Clarke (Local Inspector of the Gaol at Lifford, county Donegal, to the editor of  The Londonderry Sentinel: "Six persons convicted of assault, sentenced some to six months, one to four, and four to three months' imprisonment, with ten convicted of a breach of the revenue laws, were recommended on the ground that their offences were not of an aggravated nature, that each had a large family depending on him for support, which in no degree participated in his guilt; and his absence from which, at this particular season, might prove ruinous. Of these so recommended his Excellency liberated six confined for assault, and two for illicit distillation. "The correspondent of  The Mail, "On this point I have to observe that, of the sixteen recommended here, three were Members of the Established Church thirteen were Roman Catholics. "Of the nine discharged, four were Members of the Established Church, five were Roman Catholics. "I remain &c., (Signed) "E. M. CLARKE. "Lifford, Sept. 16, 1836." 348 349 350
 Viscount Morpeth : I am reminded of what I had certainly at the moment forgotten. I remember that the subject was mentioned in this House, but only mentioned, I believe, because we on this side of the House had dared the hon. Gentlemen opposite to bring the case forward if they had any complaint to make upon it. Thus it certainly happened that the subject was mentioned, but no motion or subsequent proceeding was founded upon it. The right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin has, in the present debate, applied himself chiefly to the subject which also engaged his eloquence at the meeting at the Mansion-house in Dublin, namely the selection of sheriffs for the year 1836. This likewise appears to me to be a matter of last year. My noble Friend's (Lord John Russell's) charge against the hon. Gentlemen who sit on the opposite side of the House was, that they shrunk from bringing forward in Parliament those charges which they urged
 351 352 "From night to morn, from mom to dewy eve" 353 Vesey: 354 355 356 357 The Leinster Express, 358 359 360
 Mr. Wallace  hoped that the learned Lord intended this Bill but as introductory to further measures; for unless something were done to remove the evils in the Scotch Courts, which were, he might say, recognised in the present Bill, he (Mr. Wallace) should feel it his duty to take up the subject, with a view to completing these reforms. There was very much that was reprehensible in the present system of taking evidence in some of the Scotch Courts;  viva voce viva voce 412
 Mr. Blackburne  had to present a petition, signed by the Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council of Ludlow, which he considered worthy of some degree of attention from the House. The petitioners prayed that some remedy might be afforded for the very serious grievance to which they had been subjected by the conduct of their predecessors in office, the councillors, under the old law. It was provided by a clause in the Municipal Corporations' Act, that immediately upon the election of the new council, all papers, deeds, and documents of every description which had belonged to the old council should be delivered into the custody of the new; and by another clause, it was enacted, that no disposition of properly on the part of the old corporation should be valid if made after June 5, 1835, unless in pursuance of some previous valid covenant or agreement. Now the old corporation of Ludlow, instead of giving up their papers, deeds, &c, into the hands of the new council, had thought fit to make an order on the 23rd of December, a few days before they went out of office, to put into the hands of certain bankers all their deeds, documents, and papers, as security for a balance of an account, amounting to 3,000 l. 407 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Major Beauclerck , rose to order. He was sure it did not occur to the hon. and learned Member, but he would beg to suggest, that the hon. Member for Ludlow (Mr. Charlton) was not in his place. It would be better to suspend this discussion at present.
 Mr. Blackburne  would propose, that the petition be printed, and referred to the Committee, before which the case of Mr. L. Charlton then was.
 Sir George Clerk  was of opinion, that the subject-matter of this petition did not fall within the province of the Committee of Privileges. He put it to the hon. Member, whether it was not a fact, that the subject of this petition formed part of the case now under litigation in the Court of Chancery? He understood that the papers were now in the Master's-office, and if the Court should not eventually do enough to meet the hon. Member's views in this case, then it would be time enough for him to bring this petition before the House. He would suggest, therefore, the propriety of letting the matter drop for the present, more especially as it could not be long before the decision of the Committee would be communicated to the House.
 Mr. Blackburne  said, that, as regarded the question of order, he really could see no reason why he should have been interrupted on that ground. Had he been allowed to proceed, he should have shown that the petition had reference to many points involved in the question now under the consideration of the Committee. The subject of inquiry was, whether a real contempt of the Court of Chancery had been committed, not merely whether the Lord High Chancellor had declared such contempt to have taken place, and many parts of the petition would have served to elucidate this matter. In the prosecution of his duty, as a Member of that House, he should not refrain from presenting any petition which was intrusted to him merely because an hon. Gentleman was accidentally absent from his seat who might be referred to in the statements of that petition. He could not consent to put off the presentation of a petition for an indefinite period on any such grounds. What other means of redress were within reach of the petitioners, but that of a petition to the House of Commons? The petition in no respect interfered with the inquiry before the Lord Chancellor; the subject matter of that inquiry was the appointment of trustees of charity estates; it had no relation to the disposal of the property of the late Corporation, and if he (Mr. Blackburne) found that the property was wasted upon an hon. Member of that House, surely he was entitled to present a petition setting forth the grievance and praying for legislative relief and redress. As there could be no doubt that many facts stated in this petition were calculated to facilitate
 409
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, the inquiry before the Committee had nothing to do with the subject of this petition; the contempt of court had no reference to the retention of these documents and deeds, but to a letter written by Mr. L. Charlton. He should suggest to the hon. Member to take the advice of the hon. Member for Surrey.
 Mr. Edward Clive  said, that although the names of two noble relatives of his were mentioned in the petition, he would content himself with declaring, for them and for himself, that, so far from shrinking from inquiry, they courted inquiry as far as it could be carried. He had seen the hon. Member for Ludlow, and had shortly stated to him the nature of this petition, and it was but justice to him to state that he professed himself perfectly ready to meet all inquiry. With these observations, he should sit down. The question as to how far the hon. Member was correct in bringing forward this petition in the absence of the hon. Member for Ludlow was for the House to decide; he would only repeat, that he, as well as his noble relatives, courted inquiry to the fullest extent.
 Mr. Blackburne  moved, that the petition be referred to the Committee of Privileges
 Sir George Clerk  felt great objections to encumbering the inquiry before the Committee with this subject. They hoped at present, to be enabled to present their Report to the House by Monday; he should resist any reference of this sort, which must unavoidably have the effect of prolonging their deliberations.
 The Speaker  said, that the only ground for referring this petition to the Committee of Privileges would be, that inquiries had been entered into before that Committee with reference to the subject of this petition; but from the statements of this petition, it was clear that it had no bearing upon the matters under the consideration of the Committee, and as it seemed most objectionable to refer to a Committee petitions which had little or no connexion with the subject of the deliberations of the Committee, he would suggest, that it would be better for the hon. Member to take some other course.
 Mr. Harvey  said, there was much novelty, much expense, and much violation of important principle, in this Bill. He wished particularly to draw the attention of his Majesty's Attorney-General to it, and to know whether it had his sanction. The Corporation Reform Act gave the town-councils the power of suggesting to the Crown the salaries they were prepared to pay to the Recorders to be appointed. This Bill proposed to give these Recorders the power of appointing deputies in all cases in which the business of the quarter sessions extended beyond three days, including the day upon which the court was opened; and these deputies were to be paid out of the corporate funds, or where these were insufficient for the purpose, out of a rate to be levied upon the inhabitants of the borough. But it was to the unconstitutional power of delegating to the Recorder, who was a high judicial officer, the power of naming a deputy that he more particularly objected. Nor was it proposed to restrict the power of the Recorder to the naming of his deputy merely. He was also to have the power of unnaming him; for his appointment would be by a power of attorney, or some similar instrument, which he could revoke at pleasure. Surely such a power was in the highest degree objectionable. If these gentlemen found their duties too heavy for them, they were at liberty to retire; but it was rather too soon for them to come to that House for a power to add to the expenses of
 413
 Mr. Wortley  could assure the hon. Gentleman, that so far from throwing a greater expense on the borough, this Bill would be a relief to the witnesses, to the prosecutor, to the jury, and to the borough itself. He hoped, therefore, the House would allow the Bill to be read a second time.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it would be against the principles of law and justice to allow the Bill to be passed into a law. It might be well enough to allow the councils to appoint a  locum tenens
 Lord John Russell  did not object to the general objects of the Bill. He thought that, in such cases as that of Leeds it was likely enough that a deputy might be required—but he trusted that the hon. and learned Member who had charge of the Bill would take time to relieve it from some of the objections which now seemed to he against it.
 Lord Stanley  rose, and said he was anxious to ascertain from his noble Friend, the Secretary of State, whether there was any intention on the part of his Majesty's Government to appoint a Committee to inquire into the working of the system of National Education in Ireland? That measure had been introduced as an experiment, and it had now been in operation for a sufficient length of time to afford proofs of the way in which it had worked. His noble Friend would admit, he was sure, that the conflicting statements made in that House and elsewhere should be set at rest. If it was the intention of his noble Friend to take up the question, he would be most happy to leave it in his hands; but if there were no such intention on the part of the noble Lord, he should certainly take an early opportunity to move for the appointment of a Committee to inquire fully and impartially into the practical working of the system, so that if it had operated beneficially, it might be continued, and if prejudicially, that it might be suppressed.
 Colonel Wood  protested against the limitation of this Bill to the county of Middlesex. If it were to pass into law, it ought to be extended to the kingdom at large, otherwise it would look like a slur upon the magistracy of the county to which its application was to be confined. As far as the county of Middlesex was concerned, he could not but regret that the magistrates of that county had to complain of the non-attendance of one of their body who occupied an influential position in it on all those occasions, when the financial business of the county was under consideration. Yes, he was sorry to say that the hon. Member for Middlesex was, of all the magistrates of that county, the magistrate that attended least to the auditing of its financial accounts, and to the controlling of its expenditure. Without entering at all into the merits of the Bill, he would give notice that on the second reading of this Bill, he would oppose it, and take the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that what had fallen from the hon. Baronet, the Member for Warwickshire, ought to induce the House to pass the Bill, as he had had great experience in the business of quarter sessions. He stated, that, if the Bill passed, it would be necessary to have a county judge. Now in Ireland there was a precedent that was found to work well, and
 421 l. pro hac vice
 Sir Eardly Wilmot  had only meant to say that the chairman of quarter sessions executed almost all the duties of the magistrates, whilst the others sat merely to make a court. They were merely wanted to make up a court and it could not be expected that many Gentlemen could be induced to attend, when they had nothing to do but to sit with their hands before them.
 Mr. Palmer  had been Chairman of the Sessions in Berkshire for several years, and had experienced no difficulty from the non-attendance of magistrates to assist in the criminal business, but this he attributed to the fact, that the criminal business was transacted before the civil. He believed that the hon. Member for Middlesex had brought in the Bill in order to save expence to the counties, and he (Mr. P.) was not disposed to offer any objection to the general principle, that those who pay the rates should have some voice in the expenditure, though he thought there was a considerable difference between the county-rate and the public taxes, because the county magistrates had no power to make a rate and levy money except so far as they were authorized by the Legislature, and they
 427
 Mr. Pryme  would recommend to the hon. Baronet and the other Members opposite to follow the example of the Magistrates of Cambridge, who highly approved of the principle of the Bill. It was most essential, in his opinion, that the financial and civil business should be separated, as at present the system was productive of much inconvenience.
 Mr. Richards  asked, was not the Bill intended to give power to the democracy? He would ask the hon. Member for Middlesex to point out to him any petitions which had been presented from the counties of England, complaining of the conduct of the magistracy, or praying for the proposed alterations. He was not aware of any such having been presented. And looking at the state of the great commercial interest in that great city, where there was nothing but doubt, perplexity, and alarm, he could not attribute the hon. Member for Middlesex's allowing his mind to be perverted to so trivial an affair as this or to any other cause than to the spirit of party.
 Mr. Palmer  explained. What he meant to say was, that very little of the county expenditure was now under the actual control of the Magistrates, except the salaries of their own officers.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the clause would be maintained. The proviso would be found to act inconveniently, especially in those districts of Ireland such as his own, in which the medical attendant could derive little additional remuneration from private practice.
 Lord John Russell  thought it was rather hard of the hon. Member who had just sat down to complain of the hon. Member for Middlesex for introducing this Bill, and because the hon. Member for Middlesex would not leave things alone, since it was only the other day that the hon. Member for Durham had himself given notice for the introduction of two Bills—one for the punishment of offences against the person, and the other for an alteration in the sale of Beer Bill. If the hon. Member did not like continued alteration, why could he not leave these two subjects alone?—He was to be allowed to meddle with what he pleased, but the hon. Member for Middlesex, and every body else, were not to be allowed that privilege.—With respect to the principle of the present Bill it would be difficult to make any objection. Where a large sum of money was raised
 424 prima facie 425 426
 Lord John Russell  said, he should certainly feel it to be his duty, in the introduction of any measure, to give poor-laws or any other measure of improvement to Ireland, to see that steps were taken to
 415
 Lord John Russell  said, he did not think it would be desirable to include Maynooth in the inquiry. With regard to any special inquiry into the college of Maynooth, he saw no objection to such an inquiry. His opinion was, that the result of it would be to show that the grant to that college should he increased.
 Colonel Sibthorp  did not rise to oppose the Bill on the present occasion. He had read it, and if it was not the same as that of last Session he considered it as of equally dangerous tendency. He objected to it on one ground—it gave great political power to the Secretary of State, and besides this, it would make an additional charge on the poor-rates, already sufficiently burdensome. He considered the Bill as transferring the whole management
 418
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that whatever might be the democratic tendency of the last Bill introduced by the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Middlesex, this Bill was certainly not democratic. He had himself
 433
 Mr. Maclean  wished to know whether it was the noble Lord's intention to include in that inquiry the system of education adopted at Maynooth?
 Mr. French  assured the hon. Member for Finsbury, his Irish correspondents had been amusing themselves with his credulity, as to the injurious effects of the clause in the late Bill, to which he had alluded, such as depriving the poor of Ireland of medical assistance. That clause had not as yet come into operation; its provisions had never been acted upon; no assizes had been held since the passing of the Act in which it was embodied, and, in fact, matters were at that moment in precisely the same state as they were previous to its introduction. The hon. Member perfectly misunderstood both his noble Friend, the Member for Leitrim, and himself, if he imagined they were not anxious medical assistance should be afforded to the poorer classes of their fellow-countrymen. For his own part, he was desirous that professional skill and medical assistance should universally, throughout Ireland, be provided for the peasantry, and that fair and ample remuneration should be secured to the gentleman devoting his time and abilities to their services. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had alluded to the dispensary in his immediate neighbourhood, and stated that thousands of persons would be deprived of professional assistance if this clause was rejected, as the medical attendant could not continue if his salary was reduced. The dispensary was all he had to depend on. From the poorness of the district, notwithstanding its great extent, 5 l. 435 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  could confirm the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that a general complaint was made in Ireland at the prospect of the effect of the clause of the Act of last year, which limited the salary of the medical attendant to a moiety of the private subscriptions, and he could add a case within his own knowledge in the county of Dublin, where, in a neighbourhood in which he was much interested, a dispensary had been recently established, and which could not continue to exist, if the medical attendant was not allowed a larger remuneration than the half of the private subscriptions; he quite approved of the repeal of that clause.
 Mr. Shaw  admitted the system of assistant-barristers had worked well in Ireland, but doubted whether it would work
 422
 Mr. George F. Young  would merely offer one observation to the House. The principle of the Bill was, in his opinion, short and comprehensive—it was, that those on whom the burthen fell should have some voice in the nomination of those by whom it was to be imposed. To that he expressed his unqualified assent, and he regretted that the hon. Member for Essex should have so inappropriately directed his arguments to that point. If any objection was hereafter made to the details of the measure they would see how they could be amended in Committee. As a magistrate of the county of Middlesex, he was glad to see the principle put forward, and he hoped it would receive the sanction of the House.
 Mr. Goring  would ask the hon Member for Middlesex, whether any demand had been made by the middle or higher classes for a stricter inquiry into the expenditure of the county-rates? No such thing, and until that was done, he saw no necessity for the present measure.
 Mr. Labouchere  felt it was necessary to trouble the House with a few remarks in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member, otherwise, those who were uninformed on this subject might receive an impression that his Majesty's Government had been guilty of great negligence in not providing a speedy remedy for such grievances. Now, he would engage to say, that if the facts stated by the hon. and gallant Member were embodied in the shape of a memorial, and laid before the Board of Trade, no time would be lost in communicating with the Board of Admiralty, and, in case the facts upon inquiry were made out, no time would be lost in affording the proper naval protection. He did not know whether the terms of the treaty with France were complained of; that was a very different matter; if any infraction of
 411
 Mr. Labouchere  could only assure the hon. and gallant Member that no time would be lost in making application to the Admiralty, who would, he could take upon himself to say, pay every attention to the representations made to them.
 The Lord Advocate  moved the second reading of the Court of Session (Scotland) Bill.
 The Lord Advocate  was satisfied that the country was under great obligations to the Commissioners who drew up the Report. He was happy to find that the general merits of the Bill were admitted by all parties. The change proposed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Green-ock, was one which did not come within the scope of the present Bill.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether there was any objection to inquire into the systems of education pursued at Oxford and Cambridge? If it were considered that the system adopted in Ireland was so important to the people of that country, and he admitted that it was so, surely the systems acted upon at Oxford and Cambridge could not be less important to the people of England.
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask leave to bring in a Bill which he had introduced last Session, for the appointment of County Boards, to superintend the financial department in each county. The late period at which the Bill had been introduced last Session, prevented its getting farther than the first reading. Since, then, however, the country had been made acquainted with its provisions and its objects, for he had sent a copy of the Bill to the clerk of the peace in each county. Perhaps he might be told by some persons that this was a very gratuitous act, but he
 416 417
 Mr. Hume  replied. Three separate Committees had sat and reported upon the subject with which this Bill purposed to deal, and a commission had issued which had presented a very comprehensive report. He had presented on one occasion eight petitions from eight different counties in favour of the Bill. Hon. Members opposite had termed the Bill mischievous. Now, if by that they meant that it was popular, and tended to increase popular control, it was perfectly consistent in those Members who had steadily resisted all advancement of the popular cause to make
 432
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask for leave to bring in a Bill similar to the Bill of last Session, and which arose out of a recommendation of the Committee which sat last year to consider the manner in which Members of that House were put to very considerable and irregular expenses on their elections. That Committee had laid on the table many lengthened and precise details of the evils of the present system, and the Report recommended the Bill which he now moved for leave to bring in, the object of it being to define what were legal charges, and what not. The Bill, however, as compared with that of last Session, was very much improved. Many clauses had been left out, and the Bill was now limited expressly to the expenses of elections. As the Bill was not yet before the House, he considered it unnecessary to say more. He hoped he would be allowed to introduce it, as by that means hon. Members might have the Bill, and make themselves masters of its contents, and see whether or not it deserved support.
 Sir Love Parry  said, that, as chairman of quarter sessions for his county, he had entered into the details of this Bill to a full attendance of his brother magistrates, and they agreed it contained many excellent provisions, though some of the details might be improved. He agreed with the hon. Baronet, the Member for Warwick, and the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, as to the propriety of establishing a county recorder, or judge. Not having been regularly educated for the law, he did not feel himself competent to discharge the duties of the situation he was called on to occupy.
 Mr. Potter  had at that moment in his eye the Castle of York, to which the walls of Babylon were nothing. That had been built at an enormous expense, and was a monument of folly to the country. There was also the gaol of Leicester, which was unfortunately too large for the wants of the people of that county—and in Lancashire the Magistrates had persisted in laying out large sums upon the gaol, although they were well aware that for some years it was the general opinion that the assizes for the southern division of the county should be held at Liverpool or Manchester. That gaol was now much too large, and he was
 428
 Mr. Potter  complained of the lavish manner in which the public money was expended by the Magistrates, though the hon. Member for Berkshire had said they had no discretion.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  defended the Report of the Commissioners. He admitted that it might be well to allow  viva voce
 Mr. Wakley  expressed the warmest approbation of both the principle and details of the Bill, as the present system of levying county-rates had been productive or great injustice and inconvenience. It had been asked what petitions had been presented in favour of the Bill. Many would have been presented if the mode of presenting them in that House were more satisfactory. Thousands would have been presented if it were not known that petitions which had cost weeks of preparation were presented without discussion or observation, and with the formality of merely walking from that place to the table. With respect to the election of a county board by the rate-payers, there was nothing objectionable; they had an election every seven years for Members of Parliament, and yet here was a case in which the interests of every working man in England were concerned, in which the application and levy of the surplus of his labour were concerned, and what did they see on the other side of the House which had exhibited so laudable an anxiety to establish Conservative Operative Associations? Why, that not twenty Members could be brought together upon a question so vitally important to the working classes, so deeply affecting the security of their property, the welfare of their persons, and the happiness of their children. Here was an illustration of the democratic principle, the object of which was to give life and energy to the country, to protect the interests of all classes; and great as were the obstacles which it had to encounter, it was sure
 430
 Mr. Wakley  also hoped that the clause would be retained. He had received many communications, showing the great inconvenience which had resulted from the proviso. The cupidity of some persons might lead them to undertake the medical superintendence of an extensive district, which it was physically impossible that they
 434
 Mr. Wyse  said, the principle on which this Bill was founded was that on which
 431
 Mr. Ewart  begged to second the motion so unostentatiously brought forward by his hon. Friend. He was glad that one portion of the measure related to the county magistracy. There was one anomaly in the present system which permitted clergymen to assume the judicial character. He believed there were two counties in England where clergymen were not allowed to sit on the Bench. He trusted that that practice would be extended to all England, as it was a violation of the attributes of justice and religion, to unite the spiritual and judicial authority in one person. He felt bound to approve of the system of an effective county police, and he ventured to think that the hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, would have acted more in accordance with the spirit of the age, had he, when he established the metropolitan police, placed the management and control of it under a municipal government. The practice of establishing county boards had been long introduced even in despotic countries. They existed in Prussia—they were also established in France and in Belgium. In France, he believed the germ of liberty would spring from them, and not from a subservient Chamber of Deputies. The present Bill was in strict accordance with the ancient practice of this country, and he considered if the measure passed, it would be the greatest been the country had received since the Reform Bill, if not superior to that Bill itself.
 Captain Pechell  said, remonstrances on this subject had been made time out of mind; and though he would not say the present Government had not shown every disposition to afford protection, he did assert that protection had been refused by the Board of Admiralty, of which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, was the head. This he could show by documents in writing, if necessary. He was determined, if Government refused, to take up this matter himself, with a view of compelling the French to observe the principle of equity and justice.
 Captain Pechell  presented a Petition numerously signed by the owners and masters of vessels at Brighton, complaining of numerous grievances, which he hoped he might be excused for stating to the House. The petitioners set forth that they had invested property to the amount of 10,000 l.
 Captain Pechell  thought it must be satisfactory to the hon. Member for Middlesex, to know that no objection had been taken to the principle of the Bill. He believed it would always be found that where hospitality was extended to the Magistrates by the gentry of the neigh bourhood, there was always a full attend-
 429
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, that when the hon. Member for Middlesex brought in his Bill last Session, he expressed then, as he did now, his approbation of the principle of not intrusting funds to the management of any body of persons without responsibility, and he was perfectly willing that some restriction should be made upon the power of the magistrates to deal with the county rates, in order that they might escape even the suspicion of corruption. Whether this Bill would have this effect or not was another question. The duties of the magistrates of quarter sessions, were threefold,—the control of the county expenditure; the civil business, which included appeals; and thirdly, the judicial business. Now, any one who had any experience in these matters knew very well, that after the first day of the Sessions, when matters relating to the county expenditure were finished, the attendance was very scanty, and for the hearing of the civil business and appeals there was rarely a bench composed of more than three or five members, although cases of great importance were frequently brought before them and when the judicial business came to be disposed of, it was, with the greatest difficulty sometimes, that he was able to get one magistrate to hear the cases with him, so that if the county business were taken away from the magistrates at quarter sessions, there would be, he would not say no inducement, but no occupation for them, after they had travelled a considerable distance and incurred considerable expense. He contended, therefore, that if this Bill were carried it would alter the whole construction of the judicial establishment of the county, and it would be necessary to have a single person appointed to transact the
 419 420
 Mr. Montague Chapman  did not think it right to enter into the details of the measure at that early stage, but he thought it right to direct the attention of the House to the principle of the Bill, and one more obnoxious in principle, or more objectionable in detail, he had never read. He could not suppose the House would pass a Bill so degrading to the Magistracy, and so derogatory to the privileges of the Crown itself. Were not the Magistrates selected from those who had the largest property in the county?—and would it be now said, that they should take from them the management of their own property? He meant the property of the county, in the disbursement of which they had so large a stake. Would not any man who came to take a farm inquire what the amount of poor-rates and county-rates, &c, was, before he fixed upon the value of the farm, and was not the landlord therefore the person most deeply interested in the amount and application of those rates? The Bill not only prevented that, but it prevented the Magistrates interfering with the police force of the county, although no class of men were so fit to arrange that portion of the local business of the country. He had taken some pains to ascertain where those rate-payers who would have a vote were to be found, and he had ascertained that in the agricultural districts the sum total of the rates paid did not exceed one-twentieth of the whole. In short, the 3 l.
 Lord Clements  was opposed to the repeal of this proviso. He did not consider dispensaries as beneficial to the poor. He knew of a case in which a surgeon to an hospital received from 100 l. l.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  could not allow the introduction of the present Bill, without expressing his opposition to it. He considered it a measure, than which, he had never seen anything more essentially dangerous. There were already, as he thought, enough elections of one kind or the other without introducing any fresh; and from what he had seen of those elections, he had little cause to be pleased with them; he thought that they did not tend to the good harmony of society, or the good order of the community, but that they were productive of much ill will. He could not agree with the hon. Member for Lincoln, that he did not like to act on a bench of magistrates along with the clergy; when he (Mr. Trevor) had seen those rev. gentlemen on the bench, he had never seen any conduct from them but such as would do honour to their sacred character. In many parts of the country the gentry were very few, and in those parts if the clergy did not act as magistrates much inconvenience would be experienced. He objected also to the observations of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, as to the conduct of Lords-Lieutenant in the appointment of magistrates. He (Mr. Trevor) did not think that the Lords-Lieutenant acted from political motives. He thought no one would object to sit on the same bench, or act as a magistrate with a gentleman, because their political creeds happened to differ. The hon. Member for Middlesex had no right to throw out any
 423 ab initio usque ad finem,
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that he should certainly retain the clause. There had arisen under the old system an abuse which the Act of last year had been intended to remove; but it had been found that the proviso inserted for that purpose was not the proper means of remedying that abuse, and that it had the effect of rendering the remuneration of a medical attendant most scanty in districts which did not happen to be opulent. He regretted, that the dispensary was beyond the power of Government, as it was in the Court of Chancery.
 Mr. Bellew  trusted that, in common justice to the character of a most respectable prelate, the Roman Catholic Bishop of his diocese, that the petition now brought forward was precisely the same in character to that which was brought forward, but rejected by the House, last Session. As to the statement of the petitioner, that he had received damages from a jury, he had received damages to the amount of one farthing—that was the amount at which his character was estimated.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought that this conversation should not be continued. He had not the slightest doubt of the course which the House ought to pursue, and he had not the slightest doubt that the Chief Justice was wrong in the opinion which he had pronounced, if indeed he had pronounced it. It was impossible for the publication of matter before that House to be libellous. They represented the people of all England, they were for practical purposes the people of all England, and any information given to them was in fact given to the people of England, and for the people of England, and the people of England had an indisputable right to receive it, and that House was under the imperative obligation of seeing that they did receive it. The right hon. Gentleman in the chair had mentioned that there was a report on the church of Scotland in print, and about to be issued. This report the Members for Scotland would com-
 444
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, in explanation, that the hon. Member for Southwark was quite mistaken on the subject. The question was, whether such a law as had been referred to by him was in existence. There was no statute regarding this part of the law of libel, it was the common law of the land.
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  did not believe that any great advantage would result from longer withholding the issuing the writ for Stafford. More than half of the present constituency of Stafford had never been guilty of the charges laid to them, and he should, therefore, support the motion of the hon. Member for that borough for the issuing of the writ. It was true, the results of the investigation before the House of Lords was, that a very serious number of cases of bribery and corruption existed in Stafford; but, he believed the House would not go the length of disfranchising the borough on that ground. Look to the case of his Majesty's present Attorney-General in that borough; the sum of 2,000 l. 448 Order.
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  said, that as he had for many years paid some attention to the measure then before the House, he thought the House would permit him to make a few remarks. He would begin by congratulating the country on a time being at length arrived when the subject was formally considered. He concurred in much of the voluminous statement of the noble Lord, but there were some particulars on which he found himself obliged to differ from him. He thought, a preferable system might be adopted. The first point on which he differed from the noble Lord was, the mode of giving assistance in classes. It appeared to him, that two classes had been designated who were to receive relief; those were the impotent, and those who might be called able-bodied men, and that a different system was to be applied to each case. He thought it would be a great mistake to consider the aged widow, the helpless orphan, or the father of a family, who was reduced by circumstances over which he hád no control, as guilty of a crime, and treated accordingly. The system proposed by the noble Lord did not seem to admit any of the kindlier feelings of human nature. There was not the least doubt that a small assistance at their homes would be more agreeable to the poor than a larger aid in a public establishment. In towns, he thought, asylums, or mendicity associations, would prove effectual; but, in the country, domiciliary relief would be most effectual and grateful. He considered I the number of persons stated by the noble Lord as requiring relief far too small. He thought, that to name 160,000 persons
 479
 Mr. Denis O'Connor  expressed his concurrence in the observations of the right
 483 484 485
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know from the noble Lord what were the regulations which he proposed with regard to workhouses, and the maintenance of their inmates. If he understood the noble Lord rightly, there was to be a certain number, four or five, poorhouses at the commencement, but he did not understand precisely how the funds were to be raised for erecting and maintaining them, and who were to have claims for admission.
 Mr. O'Connell  was to understand, then, that certain persons in a district were to be exclusively taxed or rated, and that poor persons coming from any part of Ireland were to have the right of claiming relief from the exclusively taxed. Next, what was the fund from which the 700,000 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  next inquired if, after 100 workhouses had been erected, there were to be any law of settlement; and if that were to be a parochial or district settlement?
 Mr. O'Connell  asked, if he were to understand that a certain district was to be taken, and all persons coming into that district were to have the power of claiming relief?
 Mr. O'Connell  understood that the ex-
 486 l. 487 488 489 d. d. l. l. 490 491 l. 492
 Mr. O'Connell  was understood to remark, that these great numbers might be attributed to the demand for labour, which was created by the destructive fire at New York.
 Lord Stanley  most cordially agreed in-
 505 506 l. l. l. 507 508 509 510 511 512 513 514 s. s. s. 515 516 517
 Mr. Richards  said, it gave him great pleasure to perceive the unanimity of the House on that great and important subject. The question really was, whether relief should be afforded the poor of Ireland, or whether servile insurrections should be daily witnessed? The measure of the noble Lord was well calculated to do away with the feeling of insecurity which prevailed on the subject of property in that country, and it would consequently have the certain effect of encouraging the influx of capital into it. Various objections had been urged by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny; but, when he spoke on the subject of capital, he seemed to do so as one who had no well-formed notions on it or its results. There could be no doubt that the sum suggested by the noble Lord for carrying his project into effect would be sufficient; for the Mendicity Society of Dublin alone, on a voluntary income of 10,000 l. 518
 Captain Chetwynd  moved, that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new writ for the electing of a burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Stafford, in the room of Sir Francis Holyoake Goodricke, now one of the Members for the southern division of that county.
 Captain Chetwynd  was satisfied that the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, could not have read the evidence given at the bar of the other House. The question before the House was, whether a writ should be issued or not, and not as to the innocence or guilt of the borough. He was surprised at the arguments that had fallen from the hon. Member for Exeter. He had stated the number of Bills that had been introduced in that House, and sent up to the House of Lords. It was true, that that House had passed four Bills, and when the fourth was sent up to the other House, in the Session of 1836, it made a strong impression, and the other House thought there must be some ground for so many bills on the same subject. That House instituted a full inquiry into the subject. The evidence was taken upon oath, which was the most likely means to elicit the truth. The Bill was conducted, and the evidence in support of it was examined by one of the most rising and able advocates at the bar, it was conducted before the highest legal authorities, and after being continued far
 449
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a matter bearing upon its privileges, though not with the intention of making any motion on the subject at present. His object was to draw the attention of the House to the important nature of the question, so that no long period might be suffered to elapse without some steps being taken to provide against the recurrence of a similar state of things. He referred to the proceedings which had recently taken place in the Court of King's Bench, in the case of Mr. Hansard, the printer to that House. Agreeably to certain doctrines laid down by the Lord Chief Justice, on that trial, the plea of the defendant, setting forth the privileges of that House, had been set aside by the jury, and the plea on which the defendant had succeeded went only to the merits of the case. Now the decision of this case did appear to him to be of essential importance with reference to the privileges of that House. He could not see much difference in point of principle between the new method of selling the votes and papers of the House, and the former plan of distributing the votes to hon. Members, since the votes were certainly sent by hon. Members to every part of the kingdom; at all events they were printed. He conceived, therefore,
 441
 Lord John Russell : I beg to move the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of the whole House on so much of the King's Speech as relates to the establishing of Poor-laws in Ireland. "My Lords and Gentlemen, his Majesty has More especially Commanded us to bring under your notice the state of Ireland, and the wisdom of adopting all such measures as may improve the condition of that part of the United Kingdom. His Majesty recommends to your early consideration the present constitution of the municipal corporations of that country, the collection of tithes, and the difficult but pressing question of establishing some legal provision for the poor, guarded by prudent regulations, and by such precautions against
 454
 Lord John Russell  then rose and spoke to the following effect: I feel, Sir, the extreme importance of the subject which I am about to bring under the consideration of the House; at the same time I feel it is one which, while it has received much discussion, while it has been the subject of a report made by Commissioners appointed by his Majesty, who collected a great deal of information in relation to it, is likewise a matter which I can rely confidently the House thus prepared will come to the consideration of, not only with the necessary information at its command, but with a desire to form a safe and dispassionate conclusion. I will preface what I have to say on the subject of Poor-laws for Ireland with some few observations, as to the advantages which may be derived from poor laws in general, the manner in which a poor-law should be applied, and the abuses to which it is subject. These are matters which are illustrated, I think, very fully and sufficiently in the history of this country. It appears from the testimony both of theory and of experience that when a country is in such a state that it is overrun by numbers both of marauders and of mendicants having no proper means of subsistence, a prey on the industry of the country, and relying on the indulgent charity of others, the introduction of Poor-laws serves several very important objects. In the first place a Poor-law Acts as a measure of peace, enabling the country to prohibit vagrancy and to prohibit those vagrant occupations which are so often connected with outrage. It acts in this way by the very simple process of offering a subterfuge to those who rely on outrage as a means of subsistence. It is an injustice to the common sense of mankind when a single person or family are unable to obtain the means of subsistence, when they are altogether without the means of livelihood from day to day to say they shall not go about the country to endeavour to obtain from the charity of
 455 456 457 458 459 460 461 462 463 l. l. l. 464 465 "Ireland is now suffering under a circle of evils, producing and reproducing one another. Want of capital produces want of employment —want of employment, turbulence and misery
 466 467 468 469 470 ex-officio ex-officio ex-officio 471 l. 472 473 s. d. s. d. 474 475 l. 476 "It will be observed that the measures which we have suggested are intended to produce rather negative than positive effects; rather to remove the debasing influences to which a large portion of the labouring population is now subject, than to afford new means of prosperity and virtue. We are perfectly aware that for the general diffusion of right principles and habits, we are to look, not so much to any economic arrangement and regulations, as to the influence of a moral and religious education; and important evidence on the subject will be found throughout our appendix. But one great advantage of any measure which shall remove or diminish the evils of the present
 477 478
 Lord John Russell : Yes.
 Lord John Russell  said, that was a point to be discussed at a future stage of the measure.
 Lord John Russell  said, the sum was to be raised by loan on the general taxes, and paid by instalments.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was proposed that at the commencement there should be from ten to fifteen poor-houses, and that all persons applying for relief in the district should be admitted, but the commissioners and a board of guardians were to direct how far the relief was to be extended. There was to be no exclusion of any persons, and the poor were to be supported in the workhouses from rates levied on the occupiers and landlords in the district.
 Lord John Russell  rose merely to say, that he felt deeply indebted to hon. Members on both sides of the House for the many valuable suggestions which had been made in the course of the evening. The House might rely upon all these suggestions receiving the best and most mature consideration of his Majesty's Government. He would not now enter into any of the details which had been mentioned, as these would be much better discussed at a future stage. He had every confidence that the Bill would be satisfactory to all parties.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that he would give notice to-morrow evening on the subject, and state what he intended to propose.
 Lord J. Russell : It is proposed that no relief shall be afforded to one member of a family unless the whole be at the same time admitted to the workhouse.
 Mr. Charles Buller  wished the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, to state what course he intended to pursue with regard to this subject.
 Mr. Harvey  did not understand the noble and learned Lord, the Lord Chief Justice, to have stated that that House had not the privilege of publishing its proceedings in as many shapes or as many copies as it thought proper: but the question was whether that House, being an integral part of the Constitution, through which laws were made, had the power to reserve to itself the right of violating the laws it was a party to make? The very circumstance of this judicial opinion might lead to the consideration of the question of what was libel. Happy and valuable would be the determination upon such a question, for at present nothing could be more unsettled, nothing was less determined, nothing bearing less the stamp and
 445
 Mr. Maclean  rejoined: He did not know whether the hon. Member spoke for the whole House, or for himself. How came the hon. Member to be a  censor literarum
 Mr. Maclean  must be permitted to recapitulate the facts stated by the peti-
 440
 Mr. Maclean  said, that pursuant to the notice he had given, he now rose to call the attention of the House to a Petition which he was about to present. It was the petition of a Roman Catholic clergyman, the Rev. Dr. Mulholland, who complained of a series of injuries which he had sustained at the hands of the Roman Catholic hierarchy of Ireland, and prayed that means might be found for the protection of the second order of clergy in that country from the grievous and unjustifiable interference with their temporal concerns, to which they had long been subjected. As this petition was well worthy of the consideration of the House, he felt that he should best discharge his duty to the petitioner, if he read as shortly as possible the petitioner's statement in explanation of his case. The petitioner humbly prayed, that that honourable House would be pleased to cause inquiry to be made into the situation of the second order of Roman Catholic clergy in Ireland. The petitioner was anxious that an opportunity should be given him of proving the nature of the evils and inconveniences under which those clergy laboured, and which he stated to be of such extent that it was apprehended by many of his reverend brethren, and by himself, that a continuance of the present system must be attended with the extinction of religious feeling in Ireland. Such was the prayer of Dr. Mulholland's petition; and he did think, that praying as that petition did, not for the House to interfere between a clergyman and his diocesan (for in that case he would admit, the petition could not have been received),
 437
 Mr. Maclean  had not intended to move for any inquiry, to which he did not at all feel himself pledged.
 Mr. Maclean  begged to state, with great submission, that this petition had been brought forward both in the House of Lords and in that House, on a former occasion, when its merits had been discussed at considerable length. He must say, therefore, he thought it hard that he should be denied the liberty of making a remark on the subject.
 Mr. Maclean  had had no intention in the course he had pursued, of deviating from the deference with which he always received what fell from the chair. After stating the prayer, he was proceeding to state the substance of the petition, without meaning to argue the subject at all. He was simply stating the facts of the petition, not reading it.
 Mr. Maclean  proceeded: It was necessary, in order to put the House fully in possession of this case, that he should detail the particulars of the petitioner's complaint. The petitioner stated, that, in 1826, he had been appointed to a parish in the county of Louth, the duties of which he continued to discharge until the year 1833, when he was deprived by a mandate of his diocesan, the right rev. Dr. Crolly, the ground for that proceeding being, that he had brought an action against a brother-clergyman, who had slandered him in public; that he had, however, previously to bringing this action, appealed, as was his duty, to the proper ecclesiastical tribunal; that he had received a promise from the Archbishop's Vicar-General, that measures should be
 438
 Mr. Maclean  begged to remind the hon. Member that this was a case of a very peculiar nature. He hoped the House would not consent to a course which would in effect shut out the public from the exercise of the right of petitioning.
 Mr. Divett  said, that before he moved the amendment of which he had given notice, namely, that the issuing of the new writ for Stafford, should be suspended until ten days after the meeting of Parliament, he should trouble the House with a short history of the transactions with reference to the borough of Stafford. It would
 446 447
 Mr. Shaw  had listened with much
 480 481 ex-officio rating. 482
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that as an attempt would probably be made to fasten imputations on those who intended to vote as he did, for the issuing of the writ, it was desirable that he should be allowed to state the grounds on which he had made up his mind. In his opinion, no sufficient reason had been shown for the suspension of the writ. The only Parliamentary grounds for such a course, were, that judicial proceedings were actually pending. So long as the House of Lords had a concurrent jurisdiction with that House upon questions of this nature, their consent must be obtained; and if the House of Commons thought proper to suspend the issuing of a writ after an investigation by both Houses, they would virtually deny the authority of the House of Lords. What was the case with Penryn? The House of Commons declared that the electors of Penryn had been guilty of corruption, and a Bill for their disfranchisement passed through that House, but the Lords differed from them,
 452
 The Speaker  suggested that it would be more convenient, if the House did not at present proceed further with the discussion.
 The Speaker  hoped he might be allowed to state shortly, not the opinions which he held on this very important question, but the peculiar nature of the situation in which he was placed, with a view of eliciting some directions from the House by which he might shape his future course with respect to this matter. He had felt it his duty to pay as much attention as was in his power to the progress of the trial in question, and from the short- hand writers' notes of its more important parts, which he had procured, it appeared to him that the doctrine there laid down extended to an interference with the privileges of the House, and in consequence he was placed in a difficulty which he would state to the House. He had been applied to that morning to decide what number of copies of the Report of the Church Commission for Scotland it would be proper to have printed. Now if he directed that the number of copies printed should be precisely the number of Members of that House, still ft was obvious that many copies would
 442
 The Speaker  again interposed, to intimate that the hon. Member could not read the petition.
 The Speaker  said, that for many years during which he had had the honour of a seat in that House, it used to be the practice that hon. Members, on presenting petitions, should merely state the prayers of those petitions. That practice, however, had been latterly departed from, and morning sittings had been resorted to, with a view of relieving the pressure of petitions. A Committee had then been appointed on the subject, which had reported, but its reports had never been acted upon; and it had been thought
 439
 The Speaker : Of course, it is not for me, but for the House, to determine this point.
 The Speaker  said, the rule of the House was, that when an hon. Member intended to found any further proceedings upon a petition, then he ought to give notice of the course he meant to pursue, in order that the House might be in a condition to decide whether they would allow the matter to go farther or not.
 The Speaker  said, that if the hon. Member meant to found a motion upon the contents of the petition, it was then competent for him to open it to the House; but that to argue on a petition when there was no intention of pursuing the matter further was contrary to the practice of that House.
 Mr. Buckingham  said, as he intended to vote for the issue of the writ, he hoped the House would allow him to explain the grounds on which he should feel it his duty to do so, as they would perhaps be somewhat different from those taken by hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side. He was as much opposed to bribery and corruption as any man: and would visit it, wherever found, with punishment and shame; at the same time, it was the duty of the House not to be led by its abhorrence of one kind of injustice into the commission of another. If the motion had been for unseating the Member who had obtained his majority by bribery, and disqualifying him for ever from sitting in Parliament, such a motion should have his cordial assent. If it had been for disfranchising those voters only against whom bribery had been proved, and disqualifying them for ever from the exercise of the elective franchise, he would cordially support such a proposition. But the present was no such measure—it was one that confounded the innocent with the guilty, and that even punished the innocent for the guilty, a proceeding to which he would never give his assent. The whole argument for the suspension of the writ, was founded in a gross fallacy. It was said "Stafford has been guilty of bribery, therefore let Stafford be disfranchised." Now if Stafford were a man, who had perverted his electoral privilege to unworthy purposes, this would be a reasonable sentence, since the identity of the criminal being continued, it would be proper that he should be punished. But Stafford is a town, containing many hundreds of men, some innocent, some guilty—and these so changing every year, that the identity of Stafford, as it regards its inhabitants, is not continuous for even half that period. It is now some years since the bribery alleged took place. A large number of the electors of Stafford were exempt from the guilt of this transaction at the time. Very many of those who were guilty, are since dead; and every year there has been a new accession to the numbers of the persons coming of age, and occupying
 453
 Mr. James Grattan  was understood to say that the Act of the 11th and 12th of George 3rd, was nothing but a workhouse Act, and that a workhouse system was not so new or so objectionable as the right hon. Baronet seemed to think. He thanked the noble Lord most sincerely for having brought forward his present proposition. For twelve or fourteen years he had been most anxious for the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland, and he conceived that the proposed measure would work well; at all events, he was convinced that some system of Poor-laws for Ireland was called for, and that the longer the question was delayed, the worse it would be for that country. Every man who had read the reports of the misery that existed in his unhappy country, which indeed was so extreme as scarcely to be equalled in any other country on the face of the globe, must agree with him in that opinion; and it was equally true that the operation of Poor-laws in Ireland would be exceedingly beneficial to England, inasmuch as it would prevent the Irish labourers from coming hither to obtain that employment which they could not get in their own country. With respect to what the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny had said with regard to absentees being compelled to pay a double rate for the relief of the poor in Ireland, he was not prepared to go so far, but he certainly thought that every absentee ought to pay as much as the resident landlord.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, the House had heard many of the allegations of the petition, and it was not disposed, he thought, to enter further into the subject.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  said, that the usage was, that any hon. Member who wished to bring the subject matter of a petition under the consideration of the House should place a notice to that effect on the books, without which he could not enter into the details of a petition.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  rose to order. He thought the general understanding was, that hon. Gentlemen were not to enter into these long statements on the presentation of petitions. He would appeal to the Speaker as to whether it would not be proper, if one hon. Gentleman were allowed to follow this course, that others should have the same privilege extended to them?
 Mr. Gillon  remembered to have presented a petition last Session, from an individual who was actually incarcerated at the time, and yet even in so urgent a case, affecting the liberty of the subject, he had been prevented from opening the petition to the House. He hoped the House would follow that precedent on the present occasion.
 Mr. Hall  stated, that he had listened to the facts brought forward by the hon. Member for Newcastle, and had upon those facts come to a directly contrary conclusion from the one adopted by that hon. Member. He thought that the House would abandon its duty if it issued a writ to such a notoriously corrupt place as that borough was proved to be. The question was not whether the Attorney-General or some Tory Member had been guilty of corruption, but whether the electors of Stafford should be enabled to receive bribes? If a Bill were again brought forward for the disfranchisement of the borough, he was certain it would meet with the support of the House, and
 450
 Sir Robert Peel  thought the noble Lord would find that that system would not adapt itself to the other provisions of the Bill. This proposition, of course, was founded on the success which was sup. posed to have attended the workhouse system in England. He felt that in the present condition of Ireland there was no time for delay; but he thought it much to be regretted, that greater experience of the practical working of the system in England bad not been obtained. As re-
 502 503 504
 Sir Robert Peel  said, it was exceedingly agreeable to discuss a question connected with the best interests of Ireland in which there was no party feeling present. He thought the House and the country were
 498 499 500 501 Howick J. Russell:
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  said, that as he had devoted some attention to the particulars of the Stafford case, perhaps he might be allowed to state shortly to the House the reasons which led him to give the vote which it was his intention to give on the present occasion. It was extremely grating to his feelings to be obliged to differ from other hon. Members, but he felt that he could not vote for the amendment. The evidence which had been delivered before the House of Lords did not in the slightest degree alter the opinion which he had formerly entertained with respect to the corruption of the electors of Stafford, and he was prepared to say that he very much regretted that a measure for the disfranchisement of the borough had not passed into a law. It was unfortunate that various circumstances should have interposed in the way of the success of such a measure. A Bill for the disfranchisement of Stafford was taken up to the House of Lords more than two years ago, along with two other Bills—a Bill for the disfranchisement of Warwick, and another for the disfranchisement of Hertford. These Bills were considered by some parties as of more political importance than the Bill for the disfranchisement of Stafford, and therefore they were taken up first; but if he had been permitted to deal with the Stafford Bill at once, he had no doubt that it would have passed into a law. At the same time, he must say that the case was now very much altered. A great change had taken place in the constituency of the borough. He was satisfied that a large proportion of the freemen had ceased to be on the register. New buildings had been erected, and a new constituency had grown up. But the question of time formed an element in the consideration of the subject, which was of very great importance. He particularly insisted on this point, because the other evening, when a letter of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny was being read, the hon. and learned Member said, "Oh! but that was in 1830." It was admitted, therefore, on the other side of the House that the question of time was one of consequence. The real subject matter for their deliberation was, whether if a Bill were brought forward for the disfranchisement of Stafford there was a reasonable
 451
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, it was impossible not to agree with the noble Lord that this was a most important question. It struck at the root of every privilege belonging to the House of Commons; it came to this point, whether was the House amenable or not amenable to the Court of King's Bench—whether the Acts of that House lay within the cognizance of any other tribunal than that House. He was extremely astonished that the question had been mooted at all—the practice of printing for circulation papers relating to that House not being, as the noble Lord seemed to suppose, a new practice, but, on the contrary, for a hundred and fifty years these publications had been continually made under the orders of the House. The orders of that House had been ordered to be printed, not for the use of Members merely, but of the public; and not only these papers but also information which had been given at the bar of the House, had been directed to be
 443
 Viscount Howick , such might have been the case, but then it could not be lost sight of, that in the previous year the existence of the cholera at Quebec and Montreal in 1832 created a panic which had tended much to diminish the extent of emigration, and therefore the state of things which existed prior to 1832 was only returned to in 1836. Now, if under this Bill the public should take upon themselves the task and charge of removing emigrants to the colonies, he believed that all those who now emigrated voluntarily and at their own expense, would immediately throw themselves on the public. It would, in short, be a species of out-door relief, which would give occasion to all sorts of abuses. He was sure that the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny
 497 bonâ fide
 Viscount Howick  was exceedingly happy to find, upon a subject of this kind, so complete an avoidance of all irritation of party politics. He cordially concurred in this great attempt to mitigate the evils with which Ireland was at present afflicted, and he rejoiced, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, like those who preceded him, had expressed his intention of contributing as far as lay in his power to the success of this measure; at the same time he was anxious to remove from the mind of that hon. and learned Member, and if he could from the minds of other hon. Members, the apprehension which they entertained, that the proposed attempt was one of greater difficulty, and one which held out less prospects of success than his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had anticipated. He was aware, that at the first sight of the evils they had to contend with, they seemed of so very rash a kind, that the remedies they proposed to meet them might not unnaturally appear disproportioned to them. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, that supposing the amount of destitution which now prevailed in Ireland were to continue, the workhouses proposed would be utterly inefficient for the purposes professed. But what were the causes of the destitution and distress now unhappily prevailing in Ireland? The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, and said truly, that the Irish are an industrious
 493 d. 494 495 496
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that when universal suffrage should be proposed to the adoption of the House,—and he hoped that it would soon be proposed to its adoption,—the argument against it must be founded on stronger reasons than the imaginary fears expressed by the hon. Members opposite, if they intended it to prove successful. He should certainly support the present motion. Scotland had at present no pecuniary qualification. Ireland had no pecuniary qualification up to the period of the Union. England had no pecuniary qualification in the reign of the Edwards, the Henries, the Charleses, and the Jameses; and it was not till the glorious reign of Queen Anne that it was imposed. It was introduced at that time for party purposes, was it right to keep it up for party purposes now? It had been said that "mischief was so precious a thing that it ought not to be thrown away or wasted needlessly." He would say to the
 546 canaille.
 Mr. O'Connell  appealed to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Oxford, in support of his notion, that the hon. Member for Durham had used the words "lower orders." He repeated, that the hon. Member had talked about the lower orders. He believed that the hon. Member had also said, that there was a tag-rag and bob-tail.
 Mr. O'Connell  admitted that he might have been mistaken on the point; but, if so, his mistake had also been shared in by the hon. and learned Member for Oxford. [Mr.  Maclean: "canaille." "canaille" 547 "canaille"
 The Attorney-General  did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion. He felt the importance of the subject: and he was one who considered it most desirable that those who made discoveries, and were the authors of new inventions, should have an easy manner of availing themselves of their discoveries, and the full benefit of their inventions. At the same time, he begged to assure the hon. Member, that there had been for some time a commission appointed by his Majesty's Government, and which was presided over by the hon. Member for Chester, the attention of which, was directed to this subject. He believed that without any expensive establishment, such as that which had been suggested, the machinery which was now in existence would be perfectly effectual. He thought that whatever sum was to be paid should be paid at one office, and upon that being done the patent to be taken out. He intended to examine the Bill with candour, but he thought from what he had heard of it, that he could hardly give it his support, however anxious he was to remove the evil of which such just complaints were made.
 Dr. Bowring  thought this a subject of the greatest importance. There could be no doubt that the present patent law required many extensive changes. He was afraid that the machinery proposed by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Mackinnon)
 558
 Mr. Ewart  was also of opinion that the fees upon the registration of patents, &c, were too expensive as proposed by this Bill. The defects of the Bill, however, had better be discussed in a future stage.
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill, better to secure the title and enjoyment of lands and tenements granted for purposes of Catholic worship, and of education in Ireland. His object was, not to extend the present law in any of its details, save one, and that was, to give greater facilities for the enjoyment of property. At present, the trusts of the Catholic places of worship were equally protected by the law, and by courts of equity, as other trusts; but his object was to render easier the method of transmission from one set of trustees to another, and he thought his principle would be equally applicable to Dissenters' places of worship in England. His proposal was, that when trustees died, it should not be necessary to bring their executors before the Court, but, by a simple conveyance, to vest the fee in new trustees. The objects were of such a nature, that he should simply make a statement, and lay the Bill upon the table of the House, that it might be
 563
 Mr. Lefroy  agreed with his right hon. Friend and Colleague, in thinking this a most important measure, and one that should be watched with the greatest jealousy. In short, it appeared as the first step in advance, for establishing the Roman Catholic religion as a state religion in Ireland. He could conceive no other object the hon. and learned Gentleman had in view. No other religious sect enjoyed the privilege of transmitting property in the manner now sought for by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He felt some difficulty in even allowing the measure to be introduced, and he would oppose it in all its future stages.
 Mr. Maxwell : As the measure appeared to him objectionable, upon Protestant grounds, he should divide the House upon it, even in its present stage.
 Mr. O'Connell  explained. There was nothing in the Bill to affect the right of the granter of the lease, to make any terms he pleased. All he wanted was, to take that species of property out of the Court of Chancery, and if he were aware of the forms of conveyance used by the Protestant Dissenters, he would at once extend its operation to them. As its effect would be to prevent litigation, and diminish expense, he hoped to see it very generally supported.
 Mr. O'Connell : Much greater.
 Mr. Blackburne  said, that on a former occasion, when he presented a petition, reflecting on the conduct of an hon. Member, who was not present, and that under circumstances which rendered it probable that he might be absent for some time, an hon. Member had commented on the ex-
 566
 Lord Clive  said, he had no wish to enter into the subject now, but he trusted that no part of the charge brought against the character of his hon. Friend would be left unexplained; and if the House would consider it necessary to institute an inquiry, his hon. Friend would be able to prove, that he had only acted in conformity with the opinions of Mr. Sergeant Merewether.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, great inconvenience and loss had frequently been caused by the negligence of contractors, or their inability to fulfil their contract; and, in order to remedy the evil, he would pro-
 567
 Colonel Conolly  did not rise to oppose the introduction of the Bill, but he wished to state, that he had given grants of land on his property, for the building of Roman Catholic places of worship; but, in two instances, he had stipulated, that the ground should be restored to him whenever these places were made the arenas for political discussion, and exciting the people to acts contrary to the law. He was happy to say, that the clergymen to whom he had made that proposition, had readily assented to it. If the hon. and learned Member persevered in his motion, he should feel it his duty to introduce a clause, to the effect that, the moment Roman Catholic chapels were used for other purposes than religious worship, they should cease to claim the protection of the law.
 Lord F. Egerton  had understood the hon. Member to say so, and was arguing that the effect of his proposition was to do away with the qualification of the electors, as well as with that of the elected. The one proposition followed as a corollary from the other, and that being the case, he should oppose the introduction of the present measure, as it looked like the first step to universal suffrage.
 Lord F. Egerton  observed, that the hon. Member for Middlesex had laid down the proposition that whoever was fit to be an elector was also fit to be elected. Now, if that were true, the converse of his proposition was not unlikely to be true also—namely, that as the qualification of the elected was abolished, the same rule ought to be applied to the qualification of the elector.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had certainly come down to the House prepared to support the motion of the hon. Member for Cornwall, had it been couched in the same terms in which it was entered in the order-book—that is, had it been a Bill to amend, and not to abolish, the laws with regard to the property qualification of Members of Parliament. He had come down prepared to contend, that it was not expedient to make laws which you did not wish, and which you did not expect to be obeyed. No one, he believed, now thought it necessary that a Member of Parliament
 548 l. l. 549
 Major Beauclerk  had been requested to support the prayer of the petition, and
 524
 Major Beauclerk  said, a petition had been put into his hand, merely denying the allegations made against his hon. Friend's character, and he had presented it to the House; but the truth was, he had been so hurried, that he had not read the petitions either on the one side or the other. He, therefore, hoped he stood acquitted of anything like indelicacy imputed to him by the hon. Gentleman. He had only to add, that as to inquiry, he believed his hon. Friend was most anxious for an inquiry, and hoped to be able to convince the House, that he was not capable of doing anything inconsistent with his duty.
 Major Beauclerk , in calling the attention of the House to the petition from Ludlow, presented on Friday last, and to the counter petition from Mr. L. Charlton, presented on Monday, said, that the petitioner was extremely desirous to be allowed to attend the Committee of Privileges, and to explain his conduct, and vindicate his character.
 Colonel Perceval  opposed the Bill. At the same time, he wished to see the Roman Catholic churches, chapels, and places of education, placed in a position that would render them amenable to the law. He suspected the hon. and learned Gentleman had not been as explicit as he ought; for the House would recollect, that the Roman Catholic hierarchy of Ireland were, to a man, members of the National, or rather Catholic Association of Dublin, the object of which was to interfere with the rights of the people, of registering their freeholds, and returning Members to Parliament. He felt bound to oppose the introduction of the Bill.
 Mr. Charles Buller  recommended his hon. Friend, the Member for Cornwall, to adopt the suggestion thrown out by the noble Lord, at the head of his Majesty's Government, as it was likely to lead to a practical result, and, as the present was not a time for disputing about the splitting of straws, he thought that there ought to be as few lies on the statute-book as possible, and this Property Qualification Act was a very great he indeed. The proposition of the noble Lord opposite, as to the necessity of electors being without qualification if the elected were, was a striking  non sequitur "Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat."
 Mr. Harvey  said, if he confined himself to the facts stated in the petition, and were at liberty to enter into, and dwell on, the facts, he should occupy far more time than by calling attention to the individual circumstances; because, if he took this petition as the text of his remarks, it would, in effect, open the whole history and operation of the Poor-laws, which would come under discussion that day week. But he should be extremely sorry (whilst it was his intention to bow to the just judgment so well exercised) that it should go to the world, that when the poor, the pitiless and the houseless, presented themselves to this House, it was difficult for their humble advocate to obtain a hearing. And, therefore, he would voluntarily yield to the suggestion of the Speaker, rather than that it should be supposed it was by a positive interdict of the House upon the receipt of the petitions of the people. With this remark he would bring up the petition.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that while he readily recognised the salutary rule which the right hon. Gentleman in the chair had laid down, and generally enforced, precluding all observations on the presentation of petitions, except so far as to state the names of the petitioners and their object, yet he felt assured that the petition he had to present, and its objects, would receive from the House its kind and prompt attention, and would also afford, not only an apology, but a justification, for his calling the attention of the House to its contents, though briefly. He should not have pursued this course, but for the announcement which he regretted had been made by the leader of his Majesty's Government in the House, that it was his intention to restrict the motion of which notice had been given by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter), in a way that he could not help thinking would impair, if not destroy, its utility. He had now to present two petitions, each stating the same matters, and aiming at the same object. One was signed by nearly 10,000 persons residing in the town and neighbourhood of Merthyr Tydvil, and the other signed by 1,500 inhabitants of Kendal, Westmoreland. Both complained of the harsh operation of the Poor-law Act, and more especially of the unconstitutional powers which were for the first time conferred upon commissioners, to create and enforce laws, coeval in their influence and in their effect with the positive powers of legislation. As the subject would shortly come under the consideration of the House, he would not go at length into it at the present time. But when the House called to mind this circumstance, and it ought to be strongly impressed on them that these petitioners, who formed a greet mass of the productive industry of the country,
 523 s.
 Mr. Maclean  admitted that he had used the word  "canaille," canaille
 Mr. Maclean  would only trouble the House with a few words in reply to the observations which had fallen from the hon. Members opposite. For his own part, he could not conceive that the objects for which the qualification in question had been originally introduced were no longer desirable or practicable, nor could he bring himself to believe that circumstances had so materially changed, that the House was called upon to declare that no qualification was necessary for admission among its Members. He might be disposed to entertain the proposition that all property should in this respect be placed on the same footing, but to the second he could not agree—namely, that because he might not be unfriendly to a qualification of this kind, he was bound to permit this Bill to be introduced, that Bill being to abolish all property qualification, for the purpose of modifying it in Committee, by the introduction of clauses enacting that personal property should confer a qualification as well as real estate. But, in point of fact, those who had personal property, rarely were unable to procure a landed qualification. He remembered the case of a Mr. Fairley, who, when he was going up to the poll after dinner, recollected that, although he was possessed of some landed property, he had not enough to give him a qualification, he having at the same time personal property to the amount of 100,000 l. 543 bona fide canaille
 Mr. Maclean  begged to ask the hon. and learned Member, whether the facilities the Bill conferred for the conveyance of property, were possessed by the Established Church itself?
 Mr. Shaw  did not mean so far to oppose the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman, as to take the unusual course of objecting to its introduction. He (Mr. Shaw) did not desire either to deal with the question in any bigoted or sectarian spirit; but he must say, that the proceeding startled him., as one of a very novel nature; and he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had failed to make out. a case, for putting the Roman Catholic Church on a different footing from any other religious body in the United Kingdom, which dissented from the Established Church. He wished no civil inequality to those who professed the Roman Catholic-religion—still he could not conceal, and he said so without meaning to give offence, that the notice of the hon. and learned Gentleman, to propose the present measure, had given rise to some justifiable feeling of jealousy against any further encroachment on the part of the Roman Catholic clergy in Ireland; they had peculiar opportunities of inducing bequests, and influencing persons by motives, which Protestants might reasonably be expected to question, to make over property for the purposes suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman in the present measure. He could see no just ground for forming the Roman Catholic hierarchy into a corporation, capable of taking and transmitting property, without the intervention of trustees—a privilege enjoyed by no other religious sect in either country. Considering the recent disclaimer of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the Roman Catholic priesthood, of any desire to be connected with the state, and their advocacy of the voluntary principle as applied to their church in Ireland, he owned he regarded the present proceedings with some degree of suspicion. While, therefore, he would not divide the House at that stage, before they had had the opportunity of seeing the Bill, still he begged to put the House upon its guard on the subject, and he hoped they would not suffer the measure to pass into a law. He would watch, with a jealous anxiety, the course of the hon. and learned Gentle-
 564
 Mr. Warburton  remarked, that if he was not mistaken, he heard, during the discussion of the Reform Bill, a noble Lord, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, but now a Member of the other House of Parliament, observe, that a gentleman not possessed of a landed qualification, but
 542
 The Speaker  requested the hon. Member to confine himself to the facts stated in the petition.
 The Speaker  informed him, that it was not in Ins power to enter into any explanation of his words then, without the have of the hon. Member for Finsbury, who was in possession of the House. When that hon. Member had concluded his observations, then would be the time for the hon. Member for Durham to explain.
 The Speaker  said, there was no question before the House.
 Mr. Hardy  replied, that the House was not in possession of the true facts of the case. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, that successive Governments had refused Mr. Dillon's claims, but he had omitted to state the grounds for such decisions. He called on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to produce all the documents to a Committee, and let that Committee do justice to Mr. Dillon. The Treasury could know nothing of the facts, except from third parties, and a false representation had been made. Application was made soon after the seizure, and the documents in the possession of the Board of Customs, in Dublin, would prove
 562
 Mr. Hardy , pursuant to notice, begged to call the attention of the House to the case of Mr. John Dillon, from whose petition it appeared, that in the year 1822 he was a coast-guard officer in the county of Cork, in Ireland. While there, he was the means of capturing a smuggling vessel off the port of Kinsale. It was stated that, on the night of the 2d of February, 1822, he discovered a vessel which he believed to be a smuggler, off the coast, and he put off two boats, the one with four oars, the other with six, to ascertain in what circumstances she was. On coming near to where she was, it was found that there were forty or fifty hands on board, and with that force Mr. Dillon found himself unable to contend, at all events, to such an extent as to attempt boarding the vessel; but he kept his boats at a little distance, and he threw in several shots which obliged the commander to put into Kin-sale, where she was seized by the Customhouse officers, condemned, and sold for a sum of 53,000 l. 559 Gazette Gazette. l. 560
 Mr. Leader , in seconding the motion, addressed the House as follows: The present law of qualification for Members of Parliament is one which would be very mischievous were it rigidly enforced, and which is very absurd, being as it is almost entirely inefficient. According to the principles of representation, the electors ought to have the power to select as their representatives any man whom they may consider fit to represent them, without having their choice circumscribed within the narrow limits of any pecuniary qualification whatever; but in a great commercial country to compel the electors to select their representatives from persons possessing one particular sort of property, namely, property in land, is so clearly contrary not only to all the principles of representative government, but so repugnant to the interests of the community,
 532 "Est animus tibi, sunt mores et lingua fidesque Si quadringentis sex septem millia desint Plebs eris." 533 "That, according to the qualifications of the said Bill, many persons who have not estates in land, though great personal estates, and prudent citizens, will be rendered incapable to serve in Parliament for the said city, and praying that the ancient rights and privileges of the said city may be preserved." 534 l. The Examiner The Examiner Swift's Examiner "As the present House of Commons is the best representative of the nation that has ever been summoned in our memories, so they have taken care in their first Session by that noble Bill of qualification, that future Parliaments should be composed of landed men, and our properties be no more at the mercy of those who have none themselves, or at least only what is only transient or imaginary. If there be any gratitude in posterity the memory of this assembly will be always celebrated." "The Qualification Bill, incapacitating all men to serve in Parliament who have not some estate in land, either in possession or certain reversion, is perhaps the greatest security that ever was contrived for preserving the Constitution, which otherwise might in a little time be wholly at the mercy of the moneyed interest." "This Bill was not generally approved, for
 535 l. l. 536 l. 537 538
 Mr. West  thought there was something objectionable in the title of the Bill, but, i at the same time, it would be extremely hard, to tie down the hon. and learned Member to an objectionable phrase, when the object of the measure might be what! he had staled. On these grounds, he should vote for the introduction of the Bill.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the hon. and learned Member for Oxford seemed greatly alarmed lest this measure should constitute a step to the system of universal suffrage. That was the ancient practice of the Constitution—and yet the hon. and learned Member laughed at his hon. Friend, the Member for Cornwall, because he was in this instance inclined to support our ancient institutions. The difference between his hon. Friend, the Member for Cornwall and the hon. and learned Member for Oxford was, that the former would support such of our ancient institutions as were good, and would abolish such of them as were bad, whilst the latter supported them all indiscriminately and drew no distinction between the good and the bad. He wished to ask the hon. and learned Mem-
 544 545
 Mr. Hume , in explanation, observed, that what he had said was, that the persons qualified to elect might, if the electors thought fit, be elected.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that there was no economy more necessary to be practised than an economy of the public time, and he thought that the House would not be disposed to inquire into a case which had occurred in 1822, and which had been submitted to several successive Governments, each of which had carefully considered the different documents, and which had formed its own judgment, each sitting as it were in review over the proceedings of its predecessors. Not only have the Government done this, but Mr. Dillon had shown great activity in bringing his case under the consideration of Members of both sides of the House. It had been in the hands of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and it was now intrusted to the hon. Member for Bradford; at one time it was thought that Lord Farnham had taken an interest in it, and then it was supported by the hon. and gallant Member whose name had been mentioned by the hon. Member for Bradford. [Mr.  O'Connell: 561 l.
 Mr. Wakley  should not have said a word upon the present occasion, had it not been for an expression which had fallen from the hon. Member for Durham. That hon. Member, in opposing the introduction of this Bill, had asked this ques-
 551 Hear! hear!
 Mr. Wakley  would intimate to the hon. Member for Durham, that the people required their rights and liberties to be protected in that House, and what rights were more important than the rights of labour? and yet they were wholly unrepresented in that House. He repeated, that they were unrepresented in that House. Why, were not the working men of this country in a constant state of anxiety, from the belief that they were wronged in that House, and that they had no one scarcely in it to champion their cause? He should be glad to see some working men sitting in that House—for sure he was, that the country would never be in a permanent state of peace until some working men did sit within its walls. If such men had seats in that House, they would learn something of the difficulties which obstructed the course of legislation, and having acquired that knowledge, would communicate to their friends out of doors, the various obstacles which stood in the way of making good, sound, and useful legislation. There were not thousands, but millions, of workmen, w he felt that they were not adequately represented in that House. Why, he would ask, was 300 l. l. l. 552
 Mr. Ewart  was not going to occupy the time of the House at any length, but he could not suffer the question to go to a vote without making a few observations. He was exceedingly glad that the hon. Member who had just addressed the House had risen to oppose the motion of his hon. Friend, for by doing so he vindicated the former proceedings of the party to which he belonged on this sub. juct. It ought not to be forgotten that it was the Tories of the time of Queen Anne who introduced a Bill imposing a landed qualification on Members of t at House. He was glad to find that the hon. Member for Durham had risen in opposition to his (Mr. Ewart's) hon. Friend's proposition; for he begged the House to recollect that the hon. Gentleman himself was enabled to sit in that House without a property qualification; he was qualified by being the son of a Peer. The hon. Member had stated that the doors of that House were, under the present law, open to any man of talent in the country who could get a constituency to elect him. This, however, was not the case; for was the hon. Member not aware that one of the most distinguished men of the last century was excluded from that House in consequence of not possessing the proper qualification. Again, there was a recent case of a man of eminent abilities being excluded from the House on this ground to which he was sure the hon. Gentleman could not object on the ground of orthodoxy—he alluded to the case of Dr. Southey, who was elected Member for a borough, and who did not take his seat, because he could not conscientiously swear to the possession of a qualification. The Acts which it was now proposed to repeal were founded on the assumption that the amount of wealth was equivalent to the amount of independence. This was a most absurd and fallacious notion; for a person of comparatively small income, provided he lived within it, was certainly in more independent circumstances than a man of large possessions whose wants exceeded his income. As a remarkable instance of the union of comparative poverty and independence, he would refer to a well-known circumstance connected with the life of that pure-minded and distinguished man, Andrew Marvel a name that could never be forgotten in connextion with the
 541 virtute originis.
 Sir William Molesworth  said, that the terms of the motion, of which he had given notice, had been erroneously entered in the order-book. There had been some mistake about them; for he had never intended to bring in any other Bill than that on which his motion was founded, and that was a Bill for abolishing the property qualification altogether,
 Sir William Molesworth  said: The object of my motion is to repeal the statutes of the 9th of Anne, c. 5, and the 33rd of Geo. 2nd, c. 20, which refer to the property qualification, and the statutes which refer to the qualification of Members of Parliament. I seek to repeal those statutes more on account of their being vicious in principle, than on account of their being productive of very pernicious consequences, though undoubtedly sometimes they are the causes of great individual hardship. Sir, at the period when the first of the statutes received the sanction of the Legislature it was generally considered that a great principle of our representative government was infringed; such, at least is the account given by the contemporary historians. Tindal, in his history of the reign of Queen Anne, says—
 "The design of" this (Bill) was to exclude courtiers, military men, and merchants from sitting in the House of Commons, in hopes that, this being settled, the land interest would be the prevailing consideration in all their consultations. They did not extend these qualifications to Scotland, it being pretended, that estates there being very small it would not be easy to find men so qualified capable to serve. This was thought to strike at an essential part of our Constitution, touching the freedom of elections, and it had been, as often as attempted, opposed by the Ministry, though it had a fair appearance of securing liberty when all was lodged with men of estates, yet our gentry was become so ignorant and so corrupt, that many apprehended the ill effects of this, and that the interest of trade, which indeed supports that of land, would neither be understood nor regarded." 525 526 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 527 bonâ fide l. l. 528 529 530 l. 531
 Sir W. Molesworth  briefly replied, he could not comply with the request of the noble Lord; but, under the influence of a strong feeling of duty, must take the sense of the House on the question which he had brought under its consideration. He should call upon the House to pronounce its decision upon the broad principle involved in his motion. He should call upon them to determine whether the free choice of intelligent men did not constitute a better qualification to sit in that House, than the possession of any amount of properly.
 Mr. A. Trevor  begged to say, that he had described that House as representing the landed, the commercial, and the monied interests of the United Kingdom; and, he added, that hon. Members were hound to protect the rights, privileges, and immunities of those who had sent them to Parliament.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  rose to order, but
 Mr. Arthur Trevor : I appeal to you, Mr. Speaker, whether the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny is authorised by the usages of Parliament, in imputing to me  ad libitum
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  asserted, that he had not said one word in his speech about the lower orders.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  could not avoid expressing his opinion, that a more obnoxious or objectionable measure than that proposed by the hon. Baronet had never been suggested in that House. It was even go mischievous in its tendency, that
 539 540
 Viscount Ebrington  also recommended the hon. Member for Cornwall to adopt the suggestion of his noble Friend below him, and to bring in a Bill in conformity with the terms in which his motion was entered in the order-book. At the same time, if the hon. Member for Cornwall were not prepared to accede to that suggestion, he should be prepared to give his vote in favour of the hon. Member's present proposition. In former times, when
 550
 Viscount Morpeth , although he would give his vote for the motion, wished to add, that the Government intended to reserve its opinion upon the measure, until it had seen the details. He would most cordially join the hon. Members on the opposite side, in expressing a wish, that political agitation should be excluded from all such places as chapels and churches.
 Lord Morpeth  moved the third reading of this Bill.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  presented a petition from Sunderland, praying the inconveniences suffered by the burgesses from the operation of the Municipal Corporation Bill might be remedied by the Bill for amending that Act about to be introduced. They had a charter as far back as the 12th century, which had been renewed in the year 1634; but the election of mayor and aldermen had gradually fallen into desuetude, and when the Municipal Corporation Bill passed, the corporation consisted of freemen only. On proceeding to the election under that Bill, they had appointed the head freeman presiding officer, the competency of which officer was afterwards questioned, and great expense thereby incurred. There were 50,000 inhabitants who were anxious that municipal rights
 569
 Sir E. Knatchbull  had a petition of great importance, both as regarded the law and the petitioners, to present before the House should resolve itself into Committee on the Municipal Corporations Bill. He was also desirous of drawing the attention of his Majesty's Ministers to this subject, and he therefore regretted, that although it was five o'clock, that not one of them was present except the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control, to whom he thought it would not be right to appeal. This petition was from certain burgesses of Hythe, in Kent, and he trusted that his Majesty's Ministers would deem it necessary to relieve them. The main point in the petition was this,— there were fifteen persons in Hythe who had claimed to have their names inserted in the burgess roll, but whose applications had been rejected. These persons applied to the Court of King's Bench, which on looking into the law declared itself unable to assist them; the wrong done to these persons, was therefore un-redressed, and from that House they expected redress. It would be in the recollection of the House, that all persons rated to the poor, and paying a certain amount of rates, were eligible: now the petitioners had made their claim, but were rejected; not, however, because they had not paid their rates, not because the amount of rates paid was insufficient to qualify, not because the notices had not been duly made, but because with those notices the Reform Act shilling had not been tendered. Now, see the importance of this case, those fifteen persons could have turned the election of mayor, nay, they actually would have turned it. They had got no redress, and he doubted not most properly so, from the Court of King's Bench, and he hoped that House would
 570
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order; if other hon. Members were prevented from speaking by the rules of the House, why should the right hon. Baronet be exempted?
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was the last person in the world to interfere with the rules of the House, but when he found that parties had suffered injustice for which they could obtain no redress by the ordinary methods, he certainly would stand forward to obtain them that redress from the House of Commons. He wished to find whether it was the intention of the hon. and learned Gentleman or of Government, to introduce into the Bill about to be committed any provision for the redress of the grievances under which the petitioners and others in similar situations were now labouring. He would move that the petition be printed; and unless the hon. and learned Gentleman contemplated some provision on this subject, he should take an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the question.
 The Attorney-General  said, the petition was a highly proper petition to be presented, and to be submitted to the consideration of the House. But it was not his intention to enter upon the subject of that petition on the present occasion; it did not fall within the scope of this Bill, which related to an entirely different subject. With respect to the decision of the Court of King's Bench, it might possibly, he conceived, be erroneous. At all events, he was aware that these abuses had existed for some time in the borough of Hythe, and that complaints had been made against the officers of that corporation. But the proper remedy would be obtained by means of a criminal information. He was ready to co-operate most earnestly with the right hon. Baronet in any measure that would prevent these abuses; and it was his intention to introduce a clause in the Bill which would have the effect of putting a stop to the very expensive and vexatious litigation which had arisen out of cases connected with the working of the Municipal Corporations Act. To that clause no opposition would, he anticipated, be offered in that House, nor, he believed, in
 571
 Lord Stanley  thought the reasoning of the hon. and learned Gentleman was very much beside the question, and that his observations tended very much to support the views of the hon. Baronet. The hon. and learned Gentleman said the Bill was not applicable to the case of these petitioners. But what said the preamble of the Bill? Why, that the Bill had for its object, among other things, to provide for the case of such elections as had not been duly made according to the provisions of the Municipal Corporations' Act. Here then was a Bill to remedy certain irregularities arising out of the working of the Municipal Corporations Act, which it was said, could not be made to extend to the case of fifteen electors excluded from the list of voters by the mayor and his assessors in a particular borough, not because they were unqualified, not because they had not paid the rates, but because they had omitted to pay the shilling for registration. Could anything be more monstrous than this? The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that these parties might be proceeded against by way of information, with a view to punish their misconduct; but when a law for the remedy of abuses was under consideration, what was the course that was worthy of a legislator? To leave each case of misconduct to meet its punishment as it arose, or so to shape the provisions of the law as to remove the possibilities of similar misconduct for the future? He could not think the hon. and learned Gentleman would find it difficult to introduce such a clause into this Bill as would effectually meet the case in question. If the Court of King's Bench had not the power of rectifying these abuses, was there any difficulty in the way of giving that power, or establishing a court which should have that power? It was intolerable that parties should be obliged to sit down, without a remedy, under decisions which, it was admitted, were unsupported by law, and were, besides, open to suspicions of corruption.
 The Attorney-General  said, the noble Lord had omitted, notwithstanding he had
 572 l.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  remarked, that the House would perceive that the hon. and learned Attorney-General had given the go-by to his motion. The petitioners had a right to have their grievances redressed, and he asked the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone the Committee for a few days in order that he might be able to turn his attention to the subject. He recollected that last Session a Bill was brought in, and was supported by the Government, which went to set aside a municipal election for the borough of Poole. That was, done to remedy a grievance suffered by a particular borough, and if there were a necessity for doing so last year, it must be done this year, as the case of Hythe was infinitely stronger than that of Poole. Before taking any further steps, therefore, he wished the hon. and learned Gentleman would state whether it was his intention to provide any remedy for the grievance suffered by the petitioners.
 The Attorney-General  thought that it would be impossible to comply with the request of the right hon. Baronet for the matter which he proposed to insert in the Bill did not appear to be germane to the substance of it. He wished that the House would at once proceed to discuss the clauses in the Bill.
 Sir W. Follett  was sure that his hon. and
 573 quo warrantos 574 mandamus
 Mr. Jervis  could but express his surprise at the feeling manifested by Gentlemen opposite on such occasions as the present. They appeared to think that no measure could be introduced by a person on his (the Ministerial) side of the House, that had not for its object the promotion of party purposes. He protested against such an assumption, and regretted that the discussion had not been put a stop to when the hon. and learned Member for Bath appealed to the chair as to its irregularity. The object of the present Bill was to remedy evils which existed, which it was most desirable to put an end to, and above all, to close the fruitful source of the most vexatious and expensive litigation. He understood the right hon. Baronet to complain that the names of fifteen persons, who were entitled
 575
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  contended, that his Majesty's Government, who introduced the Municipal Corporations Act, were answerable for evils such as had been complained of, that had grown up through its operation, and they were bound to supply a remedy. The Municipal Bill had promoted in every place where it had been in operation the most objectionable party spirit.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  trusted that there would be no objection to the bringing up the petition, and having it printed with the votes. He would draw up a clause such as had been suggested by his hon. and learned Friend (Sir W. Follett), who he trusted would render him his able assistance for the purpose. If then the present clauses of the Bill went through the Committee, he trusted that the Attorney-General would consent to the Chairman reporting progress, and asking leave to sit again, when he (Sir Edward Knatchbull) would introduce his clause.
 The Attorney-General  could not consent to any such arrangement, as the right hon. Baronet could introduce his clause on the report being brought up. He should be happy to render him any assistance in his power in drawing up the clause.
 Sir Robert Peel  would avail himself of that opportunity, before going into Committee, of asking a question of the Attorney-General with reference to the Municipal Corporations Act. That Act directed that the town-clerk, of every
 576
 The Attorney-General  thought that in such cases as had been stated by the right hon. Baronet there could be no doubt as to the right, and that the claims of the freemen must be allowed. If it were admitted that all existing freemen should retain their rights, and that all hereafter entitled should also be enrolled, it was likewise evidently intended that those persons entitled to be enrolled as freemen, but who had not been so registered, should have their rights preserved. He was not aware that there was any doubt on the subject, but he would turn his attention to the point, and take steps to meet the case alluded to by the right hon. Baronet.
 Sir Robert Peel  was perfectly satisfied with the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman. If he looked at the 5th clause of the Act he would at once see the point.
 Mr. Scarlett  objected to proceeding with Acts of Parliament which were merely intended to prevent the friends of the Government feeling the effects of their own negligence. This was a most objectionable mode of proceeding.
 Sir W. Follett  was at a loss to understand the object in view in introducing
 577
 The Attorney-General  thought, that it would be more convenient to discuss the details of the Bill in Committee. The object of the clause, however, was to enable the King to grant charters to towns which were included in the Act, or not, as the case might be. Several towns were mentioned in the Act which required charters, but which could not be granted as the law now stood. The case of Sunderland was a remarkable instance of the kind. The clause in the Municipal Corporations Act, referred to by his learned Friend, only enabled the King to grant charters to towns not mentioned in the Act. The consequence was, that the King could not grant a charter to Sunderland, because it had been a corporation before; he could not grant charters to Hereford
 578
 Sir William Follett  had no doubt that such was the object of his learned Friend, but from reading the clause over nobody could draw such an inference. He presumed there would be no objection to the introduction into the Bill of some restriction, as in the former Act, whereby no place should be incorporated except on petition from the inhabitants.
 The Attorney-General  said, there would be no objection to such a restriction being introduced.
 The Attorney General  could not agree to the proposition.
 The Attorney General  had some additional clauses to propose. By the Act as
 580
 Lord Stanley  recollected that this question was discussed when the measure first came under the consideration of Parliament, and it was met, as he thought, by insuperable objections, one of which was, that the frequent recurrence of these elections would keep corporate towns in a constant state of excitement; it must clearly then be the better way to have none but general elections, and at these any vacancies which took place might be filled up as well as the places of those who went out of the council by rotation.
 Mr. Jervis  was favourable to the clause, as tending to prevent excitement; for, as the law at present stood, the moment a vacancy took place the excitement of canvassing and electioneering commenced, and never ceased till after the election. It would, therefore, be the best course at once to proceed with the choice of a person to fill each vacancy as it arose.
 Sir W. Fullett  observed, that the clause relating to this matter in the original Act was extremely vague, and from its language it would be difficult to say when vacancies ought to be filled up; but he objected to more than one election in the year. By the Act, there must be one in November, and that occasion, as he thought, would be the most suitable for the filling up of vacancies.
 The Attorney-General  thought it would be monstrous to give the power of rating all the inhabitants for such a purpose.
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  was willing to limit the levy to those cases where parties were liable before the passing of the Act.
 Viscount Howick  objected to the clause as one of gross injustice, and observed, that besides being unjust it was inexpedient, for the maintenance of such establishments frequently led those who expected ad-
 581
 Colonel Sibthorp  supported the clause. He had heard much of the friends of the people, but he thought that those were the real friends of the people who supported their privileges. He protested against the doctrine that the prospect of the asylum of an hospital in after life would tend to make freemen improvident or idle. Because men were poor they were not the less honest. He sincerely wished to see every hon. Member of that House as respectable, as honest, and as upright in life as many freemen were, to his knowledge. It would tend to their credit and advantage in this life, and to their happiness hereafter. He might be laughed at, and so might the claims of the honest freemen, but he believed that those hon. Gentlemen who were now so ready to laugh, had not been less ready to court the suffrages of those very freemen preparatory to their appearing at the hustings. He thought it but just that hon. Members should betray no reluctance to pay out of their pockets for the legitimate maintenance of those who in their turn had supported them.
 Mr. A. Trevor  supported the clause. He hoped his hon. Friend would take the sense of the Committee upon the clause which he proposed to introduce, and by a division of the House show the people who were their real, and who their pretended, friends.
 Mr. Maclean  also supported the clause; and considered that the opponents of its introduction had exhibited themselves as the patrons of a summary injustice. He was of opinion that the motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hodgson Hinde) did him infinite credit. He denied the allegation that its adoption would tend to the production among the freemen of improvident habits. He was surprised to hear the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland deduce such an argument from the erroneously supposed tendency to improvidence. Was that argument one which the noble Lord would wish to see given forth to the world? He was no less surprised at the violent abuse which hon. Members had thought fit to direct against a set of men whom they had previously used as constituents.
 The Lord Advocate  was by no means hostile to the Bill, but he was quite ignorant of its details. How was it possible, he could be otherwise when the Bill was not in the hands of hon. Members? It appeared that it was against the people of Scotland its provisions were particularly directed—and how were they to become acquainted with its provisions, if it were to be hurried through the House? All he wanted was, that lime should be given to examine its details, for the people of Scotland he would contend had a right to know what the legislation of that House was, with respect to them. He suggested, therefore, that the hon. Member should postpone the second reading to a future day.
 Mr. Hawes  thought, the hon. and learned Lord had assigned no good grounds for his opposition. In the borough which be had the honour to represent, it had been found very useful, and he should therefore give it his cordial support.
 Mr. Young  believed, there was no real point of difference between the hon. Members on both sides of the House. As the hon. and learned Lord Advocate had no objection to the principle of the Bill, but only asked a little time, he thought there could be no objection on the part of the hon. Member for Berkshire.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  was quite sure there would be no real ground of opposition if time was allowed in order that the people of Scotland might examine the details of the Bill.
 Sir Thomas Fremantle  hoped the House would secure the passing of the Bill during the present Session. He did not see why there should be any jealousy upon the subject among the people of Scotland, for it was not a Scotch but an English Bill. It merely provided that the Scotch and Irish vagrants should be sent hom—and the sole question was in what way the expense should be borne by the people of England. The Bill had been hitherto found to proceed remarkably well. It had been a  vexata questio 585
 Mr. Palmer  had no wish to hurry the Bill through the House, but he was not aware that a law which had been three years in force could be unknown to the hon. and learned Member opposite. The whole the Bill did was, to alter the mode in which the expense of conveying home these paupers was levied and appropriated —so that instead of the charge being thrown upon the several counties through which they passed, it should be borne by those parishes where the parties became chargeable.
 Mr. Harvey  felt it his duty, as well to his constituents as to the House, to call attention to the irregularities which occurred in printing the lists of votes given by hon. Members. These mistakes and omissions were extremely to be deprecated, inasmuch as the whole value of the lists depended on their correctness, the constituents of hon. Members being anxious to ascertain exactly how they divided. He had attended in his place the whole of last evening, and had voted in favour of the motion of the hon. Member for East Cornwall, yet his name did not occur in the votes. He hoped that some means would be adopted to prevent the recurrence of these irregularities.
 Mr. Harvey  could only say, that he had announced his name last night, most emphatically, both going out and coming in.
 The Speaker  thought, that the irregularities which now occasionally occurred might be obviated if each hon. Member were to mention his own name as he came into the House on a division.
 Sir W. R. Clayton  rose to present a petition from the large and populous parish of Marlow, Bucks, signed by 434 persons of the greatest respectability, and praying the
 568 l. l. s. d. l.
 Mr. Hodges  was compelled to express his regret at the reply of the noble Lord; there were clauses with respect to rating which required alteration.
 Mr. Praed  was not going to oppose himself to the sense of the House on this motion, but having been regular in his attendance at the Committee he wished to say a few words. The noble Lord had attempted to defend one violation of their privileges, by referring to what the noble Lord called another. He could not however conceive the least analogy between the case cited by the noble Lord and that to which his right hon. Friend had called the attention of the House. At all events, the discussion of a question of very grave importance was not to be approached in the manner in which the noble Lord, as he thought with very mistaken taste, had treated it to-night. He was very sorry that two questions of very serious Parliamentary importance should have been received with levity, but he assured them, whatever reception might be given to the observations he had to offer, that it would not disturb his self-possession. He trusted, at the same time, that he should not himself say anything offensive to the feelings of any individual, or discourteous to the House at large. With submission to the noble Lord, he would submit to him a case a little more analogous to the case then under their consideration. An individual had written a private letter offensive to a person exercising the functions of a judge in a particular case, and calculated improperly to influence his decision in a matter pending before him. For writing that letter the Lord Chancellor had committed that individual to an indefinite imprisonment, and he now stood committed to the Fleet for writing that offensive private letter, calculated to produce an influence upon the decision of the proper judge, until the Lord Chancellor should make a further order. But here was a paragraph in a newspaper published, calculated improperly to influence the Members of the Committee of Privileges in the discharge of a judicial duty, and he must say, that the writer of the paragraph ought to have some kind of regard to the subject which formed the matter for the investigation of the Committee. It did appear to him, that as the
 594
 Mr. Hume  concurred with the noble Lord, that it would be better to discuss the merits of the Bill at a future stage; but he begged to protest against any measure that would have the effect of legalising pluralities. He never could sanction them, but would abolish them altogether; and on the next occasion he was determined to take the sense of the House upon the subject. He rose to make these few observations, lest, as happened last year, his silence
 598
 Colonel Wood  regretted the determination of the right hon. Gentleman not to grant a Committee. He thought the increase in the number of benefit societies, and their growing importance, formed a new reason for the appointment of a Committee; while the introduction of the recent measure of Poor-laws, which had thrown the poorer classes of society so much upon their own resources, rendered it a matter of the utmost importance to secure for the poor, annuities in their old age. In his opinion, benefit societies supplied those annuities on an extensive scale; and to have those institutions well regulated was an object worthy of the attention of that House. According to Mr. Price's tables the members, on the payment, periodically, of a trifling sum in their youth, were secured in the enjoyment of 6 s. s. 602
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that having been a member of three Committees on benefit societies, he was bound to say that the calculations on which many of their proceedings were based, were frequently very loose. He thought, however, that no specific good would be obtained by the appointment of a Committee. Mr. Port-man's Bill had in view the procuring more certain returns of the extent of the money operations of those societies, and the revision of them by a competent person, in order that new and more correct tables might be made out. This was an opera-lion requiring time for its full development, and that time had not yet been allowed to elapse. Under these circumstances, he really did not see what call there was for any new measure on the
 605
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that complaints had very generally been made in Ireland of the operation of the present laws. The leading features of the Bill and its principle were approved of, but great inconvenience had been found to attend some of its details. Thus a case was made out, not for a general inquiry, but for a specific proposition to remedy the evils that attended those details. The hon. Member for Southampton, therefore, had better introduce a Bill applicable to that part of the question. That Bill being referred to a Select Committee would afford an opportunity for considering the subject, and for receiving the suggestions of the different societies. Among other things he thought the mode of keeping the accounts might be improved.
 Sir G. Strickland  said, that since Mr. Portman's Act and the system of revision had come into operation, there had been fewer failures and bankruptcies in these societies than before. He thought the present operation of these laws beneficial, and therefore that the hon. Gentleman ought to make out a strong case before he sought to disturb them.
 Lord J. Russell  next rose to move for a Select Committee on a subject certainly of very great importance, but on which, at that stage of the proceedings, he did not think it right to address the House at any length. With regard to their privileges, it appeared to him that they had now come pretty nearly to what was, as he thought, a proper position for them to hold — namely, that they possessed every privilege necessary for carrying on their proceedings freely and undisturbed, while they did not wish to carry them beyond that limit. In former times it might have been necessary to pu-

 595 596
 Lord John Russell  was well aware that
 586
 Lord John Russell  could have wished
 591 592 Morning Chronicle, Morning Post John Bull 593
 Lord John Russell : Sir, as the hon. Member for Middlesex has taken upon himself to state my opinions, I shall take the liberty of denying the accuracy of his report, and at the same time take the opportunity of informing the House what are my opinions in my own way. The hon. Gentleman who brings forward this motion in so doing brings forward a proposal for a change in a very essential principle of the British Constitution, which, as he must be aware, recognises "the Lords spiritual and temporal and the Commons, in Parliament assembled.'' The change which the hon. Member proposes to make in this constitution is of a very essential and prominent nature. It is not like the change which we effected when we passed the Reform Bill, which was done upon the ground that the House of Commons, which ought to represent the people, did not sufficiently do so, and that it did not perform the functions which it ought to perform, and in consequence of which it became necessary to make it more in accordance with the ancient Constitution. Now there is no such claim, there are no such pretensions, in support of the present motion. It is a motion to alter one of the most ancient points in the constitution of these realms, and to resort upon new grounds to a new constitution of Parliament. I say, therefore, that to such a change I am averse, unless I have the strongest reasons, not vague and undetermined, but strong and well defined reasons
 620 621 622 623
 Mr. Hawes  rose to second the motion; he did so most cordially, under the conviction that by so doing, he was giving the best support to the religious character of the Established Church; and, at the same time, acting upon the soundest principles of religious liberty. It was, in his opinion, contrary to the doctrines of religious liberty that any one sect or denomination of Christians should possess political powers which others did not enjoy. Those who had advocated the Test and Corporation Acts, and the measure of Catholic Emancipation, but who now opposed Government, ought to have known that the vantage ground which the friends of religious liberty had thereby obtained would be made the most of on every occasion in their power. They should not be surprised, therefore, at the motion which was now made. Lord Henley had stated in his pamphlet on the subject of Church Reform, that the strength of the Church should rest in the heart and good esteem of the people, and ought not to be polluted by politics. It was mischievous to the Church, therefore, as well as injurious to the State, for the Church to mingle in politics. If any argument were wanted to prove this, he would point to the Church
 618
 Mr. Charles Buller  was disappointed with the speech of the noble Lord, because at an early part of the evening the noble Lord had made a capital speech on their side when he described a right rev. Prelate as a libeller and a calumniator. It was strange, therefore, that he could fix on none but one right rev. Prelate, and he was astonished at his chivalry in running a tilt on behalf of one whom he had so described. The noble Lord had asked the usual question when any reform was proposed—how far would they carry the plan? He would give a plain answer: the answer of the Radicals was— they would carry the Bishops to the door of the House of Lords, and let them go whither they liked. The most decent course they could take would be to go to their dioceses. The noble Lord had spoken of Presbyterianism, and said if the Established Church were Presbyterian there would be no Bishops in the House of Lords; but did not the noble Lord know that in France the Bishops had no seats in the Upper House? And the same was the case in Spain. The Bishops in these countries had no legislative functions to perform, and why should not our Bishops be placed in the same position? Formerly there were three estates in this country. These were Lords, Commons, and Clergy; for the Clergy had a separate chamber, and were as much entitled to legislation as the Commons or Lords. That, however, had been done away with when the Convocation was abolished; and he was glad it had been abolished. The effect of the disposition of the clergy to meddle in political matters had frequently been most injurious to the cause of liberal principles. If the noble Lord were disposed to deny this fact, he (Mr. Buller) would refer him to a late contested election for Devonshire. At that election the noble Lord was defeated by a majority of six hundred; and he had understood that more than six hundred parsons voted on that occasion against the noble Lord. The noble Lord was, therefore, one instance in his own person
 626 No. 627
 Mr. Forster  observed, that hon. Members seemed to be under the impression that the calculations by which these societies were governed were formed upon Dr. Price's tables. Now, the law which fixed those tables as the basis for the calculations of these societies had been repealed. If hon. Members were of opinion that that law ought to be re-enacted, that might form a subject of inquiry. At the same time, he must observe, that he was inclined to think, from the communications he had received from these societies, that there were not sufficient grounds laid for the appointment of a Committee.
 Mr. Lushington  expressed his conviction, that the great majority of the people of England were desirous of relieving the Bishops from their Parliamentary duties.
 Mr. C. Lushington  said, in reference to the observation made by an hon. Gentleman near him respecting the health of the Speaker, that he was perfectly ready to postpone his motion if such were the wish of the House. [Cries of  "No, no. 610 611 Fundamental Church Reform. 612 A Guide to Church Reform? 613 614 615 616 617
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, it was because he felt deeply the importance of benefit societies, that he would entreat the House not to grant the Committee which the hon. Gentleman had moved for. During the last few years several Committees had sat for the purpose of inquiring into the operation of the laws for the regulation of benefit societies: and the result had been, that a Bill was brought in by a noble friend of his, who was now a Member of the upper House, and that Bill having passed both Houses of Parliament was now the Act by which those societies were regulated. The hon. Member had talked much of the petitions and complaints made against that act; but what was the fact? Since 1829 only one petition had been presented from Scotland, one from Ireland, and about twenty from England. Now, what was the number of benefit societies in the United Kingdom? It did not fall much short of 5,000. If, then, there had been only from twenty to twenty five petitions presented to the House since the year 1829, there were, he thought, good grounds for concluding that the members of those societies were satisfied with the laws affecting the regulation of those institutions. He was convinced that to appoint a Committee, or to propose to alter the laws, would be productive, instead of a good, of a very bad, effect. To adopt such measures would create great anxiety in the minds of the members, and give rise to doubts which would retard the increase of those societies, and prevent many from joining those which were already formed, though they might be inclined at present to enroll themselves as members. The hon. Gentleman complained of grievances; but where was the hardship? By the Act, certain privileges were granted to those societies, and all that it required was, that if they chose to avail themselves of those privileges they should conform to certain things which the Act enjoined. Any Gentleman who had attended to the subject, and who had considered the operations of those societies before and since the passing of the Act, could not doubt that it had proved extremely beneficial. As far as he could understand the matter, the effect of that Act had been to give increased confidence to the members of those societies, and ad-
 601 l.; l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that the hon. Member for Southampton had certainly misunderstood what had fallen from him when he last addressed the House. He had not said that he would oppose the Bill of the hon. Member; but having heard in private something of the nature of that Bill, he had said that he could not give it his support. He would now say, distinctly, that if the hon. Member chose to bring in his Bill, he would give it, as was his duty, every consideration in his power.
 Mr. Baines  thought a Committee would prove advantageous, as it would, in his opinion, tend to increase the number of benefit societies. Those societies tended to make the humbler classes of society independent in mind, and to elevate their character; while, at the same time, they provided a certain support for sickness and old age. An inquiry would, in his opinion be productive of benefit; and any suggestion from that House would be attended with the best effect. In the town which he had the honour to represent, they had failed to found those societies on a solid foundation, and he, therefore, thought that inquiry would give permanency and stability to such institutions. He could not understand the objection of the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade. The right hon. Gentleman had said that a Committee would give insecurity; but in his opinion it would give confidence; and, in combination with
 604
 Mr. George F. Young  considered that the eulogy which had been passed by the hon. Member for Leeds on these societies was not called for, because but one sentiment prevailed on the subject, and that was, that every possible encouragement ought to be afforded them. He was in daily communication with persons belonging to benefit societies, and he had never heard any complaints from them; he therefore inferred from that circumstance, and inasmuch as he had not been called upon to support the motion of the hon. Member for Southampton, that inquiry was not desired.
 The Speaker  immediately rose and said: —"There is no reason that I should not sit here to any hour that the House may think fit, and nothing would be more painful to me than to think that I had been the cause of unnecessarily postponing or delaying the public business."
 Mr. B. Hoy  briefly replied. He could not see how any alarm, inconvenience, or incertitude, could be created among the labouring classes by acceding to his motion for a Committee. He could not accede to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny for this reason—that the right hon. President of the Board of Trade had that evening informed him, that if he (Mr. Hoy) brought in a Bill upon the subject, he should feel it to be his duty to meet it with the most strenuous opposition.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to call the attention of the House to the number of petitions presented from various parts of the country with respect to benefit societies. He was of opinion that it would be of great advantage that the laws by which they were governed were embodied in an Act, and that this Act should be so framed that, while it imposed checks sufficient to prevent abuse, it did not unnecessarily restrain them, or deprive them of the power of managing their property. He had endeavoured in the last Session to obtain a Committee to inquire into the nature of these societies generally, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, requested a postponement of his motion, on the ground of the important business which remained to be done at the end of the Session, but did not oppose the motion on any other grounds. He would now ask what more important business could the House have before it than this, which regarded the interest of 12,000 or 16,000, societies, the number of members of which was about two millions?— and it might be fairly calculated that the interests of at least 3,000,000 of individuals were involved directly in the welfare of those societies. The members of them wished to set aside, in the days of their youth and strength, a portion of their earnings which would assist them in old age and sickness, and thus be enabled to stand aloof from the assistance of poor-laws, charitable institutions, or of alms. He considered, therefore, that they were worthy of encouragement, and instead of being controlled and restrained by one barrister, that they should be allowed to frame their own rules, which should be sufficient for their government when signed by the magistrates at quarter sessions, or by a barrister of four or five years' standing. The extension of those bodies would tend to remove a heavy burthen from the poor-rates; for the Members wished to keep themselves independent of the workhouse, to keep aloof from the relief provided by the Poor-laws, and instead of being restrained or embarrassed in their operation by the laws, they ought to be encouraged by those laws; and, in his opinion, the more they were left to themselves in
 599 600
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that a Committee was refused. When the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hoy) brought forward a similar motion last Session, the only objection on the part of Ministers was want of time; and he distinctly understood that a pledge had been given, that no opposition would, in this Session, be offered to the appointment of a Committee. He did think, that what had fallen from hon. Members on the opposite side of the House, regarding the changes which the Poor-laws were operating in society, was deserving of the most serious consideration; and if a Committee were granted, some scheme might be devised which, by means of those benefit societies, would render the lower classes of the people more independent of the relief afforded by the workhouse to the poor. He doubted whether legislation would be of any advantage to the larger societies; but there were smaller ones which did not come within the strict rule, and they could not avail themselves of the advantages enjoyed by others. He was aware that nothing could be more advantageous than to give every possible encouragement to provident societies. He had received from forty to fifty deputations from different societies, whose petitions he had presented, who approved of the Bill as a whole, hut wishing that some amendment of it should take place. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. P. Thomson) that it would be extremely improper to put this subject at sea, but an inquiry ought to be granted. He knew at least 100 societies that required it, and whose affairs could not be provided for by the working of the present Bill. Why, he wished to know, was there an objection to inquiry? Where was the danger? The only objection that could be stated was loss of time. If the Committee was granted, the hon. Member would have an opportunity of bringing forward the alleged grievances; and if they turned out not to be of a character that required redress, the House would not be bound to act upon them. But if any benefit could be conferred, why should it not be done?
 603
 Mr. Hume  presumed that the arguments which had been used by the hon. Mover and Seconder on this occasion were such as could not be answered, at least nobody on the other side seemed prepared to answer them. He rose, therefore, chiefly with a view to claim the vote of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. The same arguments which the noble Lord had used the other night, in giving his candid opinion that clergymen ought not to belong to the commission of the peace—applied to Bishops sitting in Parliament. The noble Lord had impressed upon the House, that the duties of clergymen were inconsistent with the commission of the peace. If that argument were true as respected clergymen in general, he thought it peculiarly applicable to the Bishops, who had plenty of duties to attend to if they chose, and were well paid for it. Now, he would first put this question to the noble Lord: whether, upon the same principle he had formerly laid down, the presence of the Bishops in the House of Lords was not inconsistent with their sacred duties? The Bishops had always acted the part of political agents in the House for the Government which had preferred them. This was not precisely true, perhaps, of late years, for latterly the Bishops had been generally opposed to the Government. But let them look back at the history of former years, and they would find that for ages the Bishops had been the constant supporters of Government in everything that it proposed militating against the people, instead of interposing as peace-makers between it and the people over whom it sought to tyrannise. The Bishops had always been the aiders and abettors of tyranny. Did any one deny it? He defied any of the hon. Gentlemen opposite to point out a single instance where the Bishops, as a body (he did not deny that
 619
 Mr. Bernal  said, that he had had several petitions to present with reference to the subject then before the House. He had also intended to speak upon the question; but, seeing the indisposition of the Speaker, he would not, unnecessarily, protract the discussion upon it.
 Mr. Ingham  did think that the appointment of a Committee would not be productive of any good. It would not in his opinion encourage the formation of those societies, or promote the objects which they had in view; but, on the contrary, would tend to infuse doubts into the minds of the Members, and restrain those, who might be inclined, from joining them. What the grievance was of which they complained he could not understand. A few petitions had been presented against the present regulations; but to prove that those regulations were beneficial, they had the acquiescence of the whole remaining number of the 5,000 or 6,000 societies then existing. It was said that the fee paid to the barrister for revising the rules was beyond the power of some; but this he thought could hardly be the case; and he had frequently been deputed to convey to the barrister the warmest expressions of gratitude for the interest he had manifested in the societies in his vicinity. He objected to a Committee, on the ground that its inquiries would only tend to defeat the object which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hoy) had in view.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  insisted that the operatives of England disapproved almost universally of the system of law by which these societies were governed. They complained that it was unjust that they should not be allowed to invest their money as they pleased, but that they should be compelled to invest it in a manner of which they disapproved. Such of them as lived in the district with which he was locally connected, had desired him to express to Parliament their earnest wish that the present law should be changed, and that the benefit societies should be at liberty to adopt any system they might think proper, liable to the approbation of one or more of the neighbouring justices.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  asserted, that the mechanics of the metropolis made great complaints of the laws regulating the constitution of these societies. Within the last two hours he had received a letter from a large body of them, requesting him to support the motion of the hon. Member for Southampton. He was afraid that great disappointment would be the result
 606
 Mr. Ewart  said, that was the way in
 624  pastores pastorum,  pastores populi. 625
 Mr. Ewart  could say, from the communications which he had received from several benefit societies in the town which he had the honour to represent, that the people did not desire any change in the constitution of these societies, and that if a Committee were granted, many of them would send up deputies to prove the advantage of the present law. He thought that the suggestion which the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny had just thrown out was a suggestion which would most effectually assist the hon. Member for Southampton in the accomplishment of his objects.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  would ask a question of the noble Lord opposite, touching the Act passed last year, for the Commutation of Tithes. An opinion had gone abroad, (hat his Majesty's Government had discovered several faults in the working of this Act, which they were disposed to remove, by introducing some remedial measure. Now, he wished to know whether the Government had any such intention?
 Mr. M. Philips  did not wish to enter into so wide a field of inquiry as the appointment of this Committee would of necessity open. Though there were many benefit societies in the south which he represented, he had not received from any of them any complaints against the existing state of the law upon that subject.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if any unpopularity were attached to the most decided opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for Ashburton, to his full share of that unpopularity, he begged leave to put in a distinct claim. Feeling as he did upon the subject, he certainly would not be guilty of so base an action, as to leave the whole of the unpopularity with the noble Lord. It might not serve the noble Lord for him (Sir Robert Peel) to say so; but he must declare, that he never heard a speech delivered in a more manly manner than the speech of the noble Lord, or one which reflected greater credit on the noble Lord's abilities and judgment. For if it were true, as had been asserted by the hon. Member for Liskeard, that the noble Lord had lost his election for Devonshire, by the votes of 600 clergymen, and it being undoubtedly true, that a large majority of the bishops were opposed to the present Government, the noble Lord had set a most laudable example of the conduct which, under such
 628 629 ceteris paribus, ceteris paribus, 630
 Mr. Williams Wynn  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the case of Mr. Lechmere Charlton, which was read as follows:—
 "In reporting upon the question which has been referred to your Committee, they propose to follow the course which usually has been adopted upon such occasions, of first stating the circumstances of the particular case, and afterwards the law and usages of Parliament, as it appears to apply to them. "The warrant for Mr. Charllon's commitment to the Fleet, and the order of Court on which it was founded, were produced to the Committee, and it appeared that he was committed by the Lord Chancellor for writing a letter, addressed to William Brougham, Esq., one of the Masters of the High Court of Chancery, containing matters scandalous with respect to the said Master, and an attempt improperly to influence his conduct in the matter pending before him, 'which the said Lord Chancellor deemed to be a contempt of the Court of Chancery.' The order not proceeding to set forth the letter in question, or to specify the parts of it on which these charges were grounded, your Committee therefore directed the letter to be produced, inasmuch as they considered, that although the Lord Chancellor had the power to declare what he deemed to be a contempt of the High Court of Chancery, it was necessary that the House of Commons, as the sole and exclusive judge of its own privileges, should be informed of the particulars of the contempt, before they could decide whether the contempt was of such a character as would justify the imprisonment of a Member. They also summoned Mr. Charlton before them, and afforded him an opportunity of fully stating hi? case. "Upon the whole examination, the letter appears 10 your Committee to be expressed in an intemperate and improper manner. The letter, however, was occasioned by information
 587 "It was found, in the course of the investigation, that Mr. Joseph Parkes, the solicitor for the parties, who appeared before the Master, in opposition to Mr. Charlton's clients, had, during the interval which occurred between the issue of the warrant and its execution, written a letter, at the request of a third person, containing the following assurance— 'Mr. Charlton may take my honour, and I have never yet violated it, that he is perfectly secure in coming to my house, to see if we can adjust the Ludlow matters,' and that Mr. Charlton did afterwards, in consequence, attend a meeting at the house of Mr. Parkes, without any interruption, or attempt to execute the warrant by the officers who held it. Your Committee, therefore, felt it necessary to ascertain whether the execution of a process issued on the ground of punishing a contempt of the Court of Chancery, had in any manner been allowed to be enforced or suspended, at the discretion of one of the litigant parties, or to be rendered subservient to his objects. This inquiry has tended considerably to lengthen their proceedings, but the result has satisfied them, that no power had ever been given by any person, or exercised by the solicitor, for that purpose. "Upon the law and usage of Parliament, as affecting this case, your Committee beg leave to refer to the statement contained in the Report of the Committee of Privileges in the case of the Hon. William Long Wellesley. presented to the House on the 26th of July 1831, the precedents cited in which they will not here repeat. "The Committee are deeply impressed with the difficulty and importance of the question referred to them, in the absence of authorities to which they can refer, as clearly in paint, and directly bearing on this particular case. It will be seen, from the early cases, that the ancient definition of privilege of Parliament is, that it belongs to every Member of the House, except in cases of treason, felony, or refusing to give surety of the peace. These exceptions, by the statement of the Commons in 1641, are i further extended to all indictable offences; by their resolution in 1697 to forcible entries and detainers; and, in 1763, in conformity with the principle of the declaration of 1641, and of a subsequent resolution in 1675, to printing and publishing seditious libels; to which may be added, the resolution of the Lords in 1757, that privilege shall not protect Peers against process to enforce the  habeas corpus. 588 "The ordinary process for contempts against persons having privilege of Parliament, or of Peerage, has not been that of attachment of the person, but that of sequestration of the whole property, which has been found sufficient to vindicate the authority of the courts, even in cases of some aggravation. "It is stated by Blackstone, that 'contempts committed even by Peers, when enormous, and accompanied with violence, such as forcible rescues, and the like, or when they import disobedience to the Ring's writs of prohibition,  habeas corpus, "The only cases, however, in which attachments have been found by the Committee to have been actually issued against privileged persons, are that of Earl Ferrers, by the King's Bench, and that of Mr. Long Wellesley, by the Court of Chancery, already referred to. The former was a case of disobedience to a writ of  habeas corpus, "Since the sitting of the last Committee of Privileges, the Act of 2 and 3 William 4th, c. 93, entitled, 'An Act for enforcing the Process upon Contempts in the Courts Ecclesiastical of England and Ireland,' has passed, by which contempts of the Ecclesiastical Courts,' in face of the Court, or any other contempt towards such Court, or the process thereof, are directed to be signified to the Lord Chancellor, who is to issue a writ  de contumace capiendo, "Under all the circumstances of the case, your Committee are of opinion, that Mr. Charlton's claim to be discharged from imprisonment, by reason of privilege of Parliament, ought not to be admitted. "February 16, 1837."
 Mr. Williams Wynn  then said, that he had been further directed by the Committee, to call the attention of the House to a paragraph in one of the morning newspapers, reflecting upon the full attendance of Members at the Committee, as being caused solely by party and political feeling. During the time that he had sat in Parliament, he had never seen a Committee more fully attended, and the report which had been just read, would show that the
 589 Morning Chronicle: 590 Morning Chronicle Morning Chronicle.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  would be very sorry to enter into any argument founded on the particular circumstances of this case, which were stronger than all others which had occurred with respect to the attempt made to limit the privileges of the House; but he must say, that if there was one case which afforded a fuller
 597
 Mr. Wynn  had no wish to press the motion, but he had brought it forward in the exercise of an indispensable duty, as Chairman of the Committee. He would not enter into any argument on the question, but it appeared to him that the present case was widely different from any which the noble Lord had cited, inasmuch as it represented a Committee of the House of Commons sitting upon a judicial question as a packed special jury. It was infinitely more offensive than any of the publications which had been mentioned. He could only appeal to hon. Members opposite, who had attended the Committee, to declare whether they believed that any Members of it were actuated by an undue political bias. He had sat in the chair, and he certainly could declare, as his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Praed) had done, on his honour as a Gentleman and Member of Parliament, that he had seen nothing of the kind.
 Mr. A. Trevor  supported the motion, as he thought a Committee would be productive of great advantage. In the country with which he was connected, the new Poor-laws had exercised a great influence upon these societies. It was said that the new Poor-laws had made the poorer classes come forward in societies to provide for themselves in sickness and old age, and had thus, to use the expression of the hon. Member for Leeds, rendered them benefactors to themselves. It was, therefore, a duty incumbent on the House to look closely at the regulations by which such societies were governed. He should be sorry if the motion of the hon. Member for Southampton was not granted.
 Mr. J. S. Wortley , in moving that this Bill be committed, stated that he had prepared a clause in conformity with a suggestion thrown out by the noble Lord, namely, that a Deputy Recorder should not be appointed in any borough unless the town council determined that such office was necessary. It was stated on a former occasion that this Bill would be attended with an additional expense to the boroughs in which Deputy Recorders were appointed. Now, there were returns on the table which showed how the system had worked in Leeds and other places, and proved that so far from its increasing the expense, that it had led to a great saving. It had been argued that the appointment of the deputy ought not to rest with the Recorder; but from all the consideration he had been able to give to the subject, he was satisfied that that was the best arrangement that could be made. It would be highly objectionable to leave the appointment of a judicial officer to the town-council of a borough.
 Mr. Leader  would ask the Attorney-General, whether he was right in stating, that by the Bill the Recorder might appoint a deputy, if the town-council wished for one? Now, if so, he wished to know whether the council was to have any voice in the appointment, either by a veto or otherwise, or whether it was to rest solely with the Recorder.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the council were to have no veto on the appointment. They were to determine whether a second court was necessary or not, but the nomination was to be in the Recorder.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested, that the appointment of the Deputy Recorder should be in the same hands as that of the Recorder.
 Sir J. Beckett  was of opinion that the responsibility of the appointment ought to rest with the Recorder, and not with the Government or the council.
 Mr. Harvey  thought that the Crown should have a veto on the appointment of the Deputy Recorder. He objected, however to the appointment of Deputy Recorders at all, as he considered that it would be fatal to the independence of the bar.
 Mr. Roebuck  begged the House to recollect that, the Recorder was responsible for his own acts, but he could not be so for those of his deputy. The object of the Bill, as he understood it, was to state the period during which the court was to sit. Now, he would suggest a remedy for this, instead of adopting that proposed in the Bill, namely, that the Recorder should be compelled to hold his court oftener than he did at present.
 The Attorney-General  said, that although he had not introduced the Bill, which had been brought in by the hon. Member for Halifax, he had no objection to state that he approved of the provision. It had only lately come to his knowledge that great inconveniences had arisen in consequence of the quantity of business in the Recorder's court. Before the Municipal Reform Bill, there were two courts sitting at quarter sessions, but since the passing of that measure only one court could be held. This had given occasion to protracted sittings, and had proved very burdensome to the jury, and expensive to the witnesses summoned. The person to be appointed would not he a Deputy Recorder, but the Recorder's assistant, because he would hold his court conveniently, and he would act only  pro hac vice;
 Mr. C. Buller  rose to move an amendment to the effect that the sessions should in future be held once a-month.
 Mr. Baines  contended, that the gentlemen of the bar could not attend if the sessions were held once a-month, and that the business would in consequence be performed in an incompetent manner. The Bill of the hon. Member met all difficulties, and the Members of the legal profession were anxious that it should be adopted. The opinion of the profession ought to have weight with the House, and they should, he thought, be guided by that opinion rather than by the theoretical opinions of non-professional Members of that House. The measure now brought forward by the hon. Member for Halifax had satisfied all demands, and satisfied them, too, without adding a single farthing of expense to the system at present in operation. The whole profession, as
 638
 Mr. Roebuck  contended, that there were other persons deserving of the consideration of the House as well as the barristers — viz., the prisoners. Those unfortunate individuals and their relatives had strong claims upon their attention; and the House would best consult the interests and happiness of those persons by consenting that the sessions should in future sit once a-month, instead of once every three months, as at present. Such views were not theoretical. He wished that all should have full and fair justice administered to them; but the oftener the courts sat the better; for in that way alone could the anxiety of the prisoners and their relatives be terminated, and the guiltless be freed from unmerited confinement. Why, ha would ask, should not the Recorder sit once a-month? The hon. Member for Leeds said, that in. such a case, they would require more pay. That was a haberdashery sort of reason, and not entitled to have any weight. The condition of the prisoners was the point to be considered, and to have the sessions once a-month, would, by freeing those persons from confinement, be the means of saving expense.
 Mr. Aglionby  thought, that prisoners should not remain in confinement for three, two, or even for one month, if they could be brought to trial sooner. Why should not the Recorder sit whenever there was a prisoner to try? The answer was, that it would be impossible to procure a respectable Barrister for 150 l. l, 639
 Mr. Harvey , in order that the House might have an opportunity of reconsidering the subject, thought that the Bill should be sent to a Select Committee. In a desultory conversation it was impossible that its provisions could be properly considered. It was proposed to pay the Deputy Recorder ten guineas a day. He (Mr. Harvey) objected to such a mode of paying a judge, as it held out a strong inducement to protract the sittings. Another point was the mode of appointing the assistant-recorders. It was true they were not to be appointed without the sanction of the town-councils, but the clause relating to their appointment was vague, and it did not appear whether they were to be elected once a-year or not; or what was to be the proper proceeding should the first intimation made to the council be unattended to. He was of opinion that the temptation of deputy-recorderships would fill the quarter sessions with a race of stripling barristers, and thus exclude the attornies who had hitherto been of so much use. In a neighbouring county, he could inform the House, two juvenile members of the profession had presented themselves at the sessions, and insisted on clearing the court of the attornies; and those individuals, who had long practised before the court were obliged to give way. Those two barristers made the bar; one taking one side, and the other the opposite, in all cases which were to be decided. But the House could not do justice to such Bills as the present in a desultory conversation. In order, therefore, to give the House an opportunity for reflection, he moved that the Bill be sent to a Committee up stairs. This motion it was suggested could only be made in the House, not in the Committee.
 The Attorney General  in moving the Order of the Day for bringing up the report of the Municipal Corporations Amendment Bill, said, that he had done every thing to meet the views of his hon. and learned Friend opposite. One alteration, he had made related to the expenditure of the town-councils. The 92d clause of the Act specified certain purposes to which borough funds might be applied. To provide that the expenditure for other purposes than those specified should not be made an abuse, he had prepared a clause by which every money-order issued from the common council, for any purpose not specified in the Act, should be lodged with the clerk of the peace for three weeks, and be subjected to the opinion of the recorder of the place, or other corresponding functionary, and if disallowed by him, should be declared null and void.
 Mr. Marjoribanks  rose to complain of a want of courtesy on the part of the hon. Member for Kent in bringing forward a petition reflecting upon his (Mr. Marjoribanks's) constituents without giving any notice of his intention to present that petition. The petition to which he referred purported to be from certain burgesses of Hythe, in Kent, and was presented by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for East Kent on Wednesday last. That petition was got up at a hole-and corner meeting, and the statements it contained were gross exaggerations of the facts of the case. What he complained of was, that the usual notice had not been given him by the right hon. Baronet; and although they had met on the Monday previous to the presentation of the petition, yet the hon. Member for East Kent had not informed him (Mr. Marjoribanks) of his intentions. He had thus been denied an opportunity of stating to the House the real merits of the case.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  begged leave to explain. The charge against him was of want of courtesy He did not think the complaint was well founded, for he was always most anxious to consult the feelings of every Member of the House and certainly in the present instance no offence was intended. The hon. Gentleman had said, that they had met on the Monday previous to the presentation of the petition from Hythe. On that day however he had been confined to the House. [Mr.  Marjoribanks 641 Marjoribanks 642
 Sir William Follett  asked whether the Attorney-General intended to have these clauses printed before the Bill was read a third time. If he understood correctly the clause which his learned Friend had now introduced for the better control of the municipal funds, it was calculated to increase the very evil which it was professedly intended to check. Oh! then he did not understand the clause which his learned Friend had introduced, and that was a sufficient reason for having it printed for further consideration.
 Mr. Scarlett  begged leave to bring up a clause for the better regulating the election of aldermen. The present mode of electing aldermen was in violation of the principle of the Bill, which, as he understood it, was intended to place corporations under popular control and superintendence. At present the aldermen were elected by a majority of the council. He proposed that they should in future be elected by the burgesses at large. The result of the present mode of electing aldermen was, that the minority in the corporations had no representatives at all among the aldermen. This gave both parties an interest in carrying the election of a majority of their own party as councillors; and it often happened that those who were rejected as councillors, were elected as aldermen by their party in the council, to give if additional strength and influence. To cure this, he would give to the burgesses, instead of to the council, the power of electing the aldermen.
 The Attorney-General  could not say that the plan of allowing the aldermen to be elected by the burgesses at large was not a good one. It would, however, be a fundamental change in the constitution of these corporations. The clause which his hon. Friend wished to alter, was a clause framed elsewhere, no doubt with the same wisdom which pervaded all its legislation. It was connected with in any other clauses, and any alteration in it would dislocate the Bill exceedingly. He thought that his hon. Friend had better bring in a Bill to amend the state of the law affecting corporations, and to cure the defects which had been introduced into it by amendments made elsewhere. At present, according to the clause framed elsewhere, the aldermen were elected by the council. This Bill introduced no organic change into the original Bill, and he therefore must object to the reception of the present clause.
 Mr. Scarlett  rose to move another clause, the object of which was to give to every corporate town two sheriffs, as in London and Dublin. The circumstance of there being but one executive officer was calculated to create distrust and excite political and party feeling. It was perfectly natural that men should feel, or at least suspect, that juries were not impartially chosen when there was but one sheriff. To the case of elections, the same objection applied with equal force. The clause which he then submitted to the House, would neither interfere with the duties of sheriff, the mode of election, nor the persons by whom elected, but merely alter the number of those officers in towns corporate, electing them as the aldermen were elected.
 The Attorney-General  would oppose the clause. He felt some hesitation as to the election of aldermen, but he should decidedly object to the application of the same principle to the choice of sheriffs. He conceived that the Bill would not be improved by the introduction of this clause. There appeared to be no reason whatever why two sheriffs should be appointed. Why not have three or five, that there might in case of differences of opinion be a casting voice? If there were to be two sheriffs, why not two mayors and carry the dual number throughout the whole corporation.
 Mr. Scarlett  knew of no case where the circumstance of the office of sheriff being executed by two persons occasioned doubt or delay. The duty of sheriff was merely ministerial, and he therefore thought that the clause he proposed might be advantageously adopted; but as his hon. and learned Friend did not concur with him, he should not press the question to a division.
 Mr. Finch  proposed the insertion of the following clauses, declaring,
 "That nothing in the Municipal recited Act contained, shall prevent the levying and collecting of any rate by the town-council in any such borough or place in the said recited Act mentioned, for the purpose of paying any debt chargeable upon the rates of any borough or place contracted before the passing of this Act or the said recited Act, or the interest of any such debt, &c."
 The Attorney-General  was very sorry that he could not comply with the hon. Gentleman's request. The clause was unnecessary, and, therefore, he must oppose it. It was a mistake to suppose that the rev. gentleman alluded to, would not get his money. The law as it stood would afford him all the remedy that he was entitled to have, and as to which party, whether the borough or the liberty, was
 645
 Mr. Finch  regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman should think this was not a case for the interposition of the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman had expressed it as his opinion, that the party who lent the money had a remedy in the Court of King's Bench, but although that might be his opinion, and he knew that the Attorney and Solicitor-General were usually considered, no doubt properly so, the giants—the Gog and Magog—of the Bar—still it so happened, that in this very case, a different opinion had been given by another lawyer who had been consulted upon it.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that as it was impossible for the House to determine the judicial point which had arisen in the case referred to, it would be most improper to introduce such clauses as these into the Bill. He must, therefore, give it his opposition.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that the case had not been fully staled to the House, The fact was, that if the Municipal Corporation Bill had not passed, such an injury as was now complained of, never would have arisen. The party advanced his money on the faith of an Act of Parliament, which empowered the Corporation to pledge the rates. He lent his money to build a court-house, and although he had got a mortgage on the rates, it turned out that, owing to a difficulty which had arisen out of the new law, he had been deprived of that interest to which he was Strictly entitled. This was not just, and whatever might be the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, to use the words of his hon. Friend, "the Gog and Magog of the bar," he must deny that it was consistent with justice to leave the individual alluded to, the expensive remedy of a suit in the Court of King's Bench, when the evil might be remedied by a provision such as his hon. Friend had proposed. They should not forget that the whole of the difficulty was of their own creating.
 The Attorney-General , thought that in such a case, that House ought not to interfere. The question as to the liability of the liberty or the borough, was one which a legal tribunal alone could decide.
 Mr. Goulburn  repeated that, as the injustice had arisen out of the Municipal
 646
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, that if the course taken by the hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite, the law officers of the Crown, were justice, all he could say was, that justice was but an empty name. Equity and justice would suggest a very different cause.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not think that House could decide such a question.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that all they required was, that just debts should be paid; that the saddle should be put on the right horse.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that until they were in the position to say on which party the burthen ought to fall, it would be absurd to legislate on the subject.
 Mr. Finch  said, it was admitted on all hands that injustice had been done. That injustice had grown out of their own Act of Parliament; and although the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite declared that the King's Bench could apply a remedy, another professional man had stated that the only way in which the evil could be rectified, would be by a short Act of Parliament, the expense of which he said the Government ought to bear, inasmuch as it was occasioned by "their own stupid blundering." Now, had an application been made to Lord Melbourne, or any other of his Majesty's Ministers, to bring in an Act of Parliament on the subject, was it likely that it would be attended with success? He thought not; but, at all events, he was satisfied that the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny was so much engaged with his own deep speculations, as to be unable to see the matter in its true light.
 The Attorney-General  said, that as the sense of the House had been so fully taken upon this clause already, he felt himself bound to oppose the motion, that it be brought up. On a former occasion a majority of nearly two to one had decided against the clause. As the law at present stood, the Corporations were empowered to apply the surplus of their funds to the general benefit and use of the inhabitants. Unless the hon. Member meant to make the clause compulsory it would be useless, as the Corporations had now the power to make such a provision if they chose to do so; and to make the clause compulsory would be an injustice, inasmuch as it would compel the application of funds intended for the general use of the inhabitants, to the benefit of a particular class.
 Mr. H. Hind  contended, that in equity these parties were entitled to the benefit which he sought to obtain for them. Those institutions had heretofore been maintained out of the funds of the Corporations, and he sought to obtain for those individuals a continuance of those advantages which they had heretofore enjoyed.
 Mr. Burdon  said, that so far as the Corporation of Newcastle was concerned, it was at present in a state little short of bankruptcy, and it was not likely that it had money to devote to this purpose. If the hon. Member had framed a clause so as to include decayed men, &c, instead of confining the relief to a particular class, he would have supported it.
 Mr. Robinson  considered the clause would be nugatory, unless it was made compulsory upon the town-council, so to apply a portion of the funds of the Corporation. He thought if relief of this kind were to be provided, it should not be for a particular class, but for the poor of the borough generally. He felt bound to oppose the clause.
 Mr. A. Trevor  trusted his hon. Friend would take the sense of the House on the clause. He was not surprised that justice and equity should be denied the freemen. He had no hesitation to say that in the language adopted by the hon. Gentlemen opposite, justice and equity were out of the question.
 The Solicitor-General  felt that the country was greatly indebted to the hon. Baronet for bringing forward his measure, which was calculated to put an end to a most objectionable anomaly.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  objected to the motion. It was most important, in order to render the result of this inquiry useful and satisfactory, that the Committee should be free from all imputations of party motives, and have the character of perfect impartiality. He did not think at the time that this Committee was proposed that it was calculated to effect the object it proposed to accomplish. However, seeing that both sides of the House were unanimous on the subject, he gave way. He thought, however, that the plan on which the hon. Member intended to pro-
 649
 Mr. Warburton  wished to call the attention of the House to the principle on which the Committee had been appointed. It was composed of an equal number of Members from both sides of the House,
 650
 Mr. Maclean  said, that the Committee was of a peculiar character, being, as he considered it similar to an Election Committee. For his own part he saw no occasion whatever for it. The votes on which it was to make inquiries had been already decided on by the Courts of Registration, and there was no necessity to go over them again. Great care ought to be taken in meddling with the Committee, after its having been once appointed, and he thought it singular to remove an hon. Member from one Committee to place him on another.
 Mr. F. Maule  was of opinion that to substitute the hon. Member for Exeter for the hon. Member for Roscommon was quite reasonable.
 An hon. Member  wished to learn from the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Board of Trade, whether it were true that any obstruction had been thrown in the way of manufacturing sugar from beetroot by the Government.
 Mr. George F. Young  begged leave to observe, that the hon. Member for Roscommon was a man of moderate politics, and that, constituted as the Committee was, they were bound to substitute some Gentleman whose opinions were of at least as moderate a nature, in order that the House and the public might have confidence in the result of the inquiry. He believed the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. P. M. Stewart), who was in every respect fitted to assist in that inquiry, would have no objection to be named on the Committee in the place of the hon. Member for Roscommon, and he would move as an amendment that his name be substituted therefore.
 Mr. R. Steuart  supported the original motion, and defended the original constitution of the Committee, a list of the members of which he had previously shown to the hon. Member for Edinburghshire.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that when a noble Lord, a Member of the Committee, and of that side of the House, was likely to have been obliged to absent himself, they had
 651
 Mr. Horsman  had proposed to the hon. Member for Buckingham to select one of two names; but that the hon. Member had replied, "No; propose your man, and then I will state my objections to him."
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to differ with the hon. Member for Tynemouth, in defining the politics of the hon. Member for Roscommon as of a moderate character. Now, the hon. Member for Exeter was a Whig or very little more, while the hon. Member for Roscommon was a thorough Radical, who had pledged himself to his constituency, at the last election, to support the present Administration. He had voted for the Ballot, the Shortening of Parliament, Universal Suffrage, and was a decided Repealer, and yet the hon. Member for Tynemouth had asserted that he was a man of moderate politics.
 Mr. Robinson  wished to state the reason why he felt it incumbent on him to vote for the hon. Member for Exeter. His predilections were in favour of his Friend the hon. Member for Lancaster, but when he recollected that the former Gentleman had been originally proposed, he felt that he could not object to him now without casting imputations on him.
 Mr. Scarlett  denied that any imputation was intended, by the opposition given to the substitution of the name of the hon. Member for Exeter. A comparison between two hon. Members was an extremely delicate point, and he thought the best way to avoid it would be by hon. Members opposite acquiescing in any reasonable proposal emanating from his side of the House. He was sorry to hear that the politics of the O'Conor Don were of so decided a character as that described, but still there was no man carried further than that hon. Member those notions of honour and impartiality which
 652
 Sir George Clerk  said, that although he conceived many of the facts as originally stated by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Horsman) to have been founded in misconception, yet he offered no objection to inquiry, stating, at the same time, that the Committee should be so constituted as to meet with the confidence of that House and the people of Scotland. He felt, that as it was to be an inquiry into a question of a legal character, it was not only necessary to have a Committee free from political bias, but one formed of men who, from their professional habits or other sources, were best calculated to turn their attention to a question of so difficult a nature. Being still of that opinion, being anxious for full and fair inquiry, and being desirous that the Committee should be placed above all suspicion, he would suggest that a conference should take place between the hon. Member for Buckingham and the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in order that they might decide upon substituting some hon. Member to whom there would be no objection.
 Lord John Russell  had seen the original list of the Members of the Committee before it was proposed to the House, and thought it a very fair one. When it was proposed to the House, the only objection made to it was that some of the hon. Members who belonged to the other side of the House might not be able to attend. He had observed that if that should prove to be the case there would be no difficulty in filling up the vacancies with Members of the same side of the House; for no one contended that the constitution of the Committee was irrevocable. Now, however, when an hon. Member from his side of the House was unable to continue his attendance on the Committee, the substitution of another hon. Member of similar political principles was opposed. The hon. Member for Buckingham was not entitled to refuse the proposition of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, and to say, "Do you propose your man, and I will state my objections to him." With reference to the present motion and amendment, he had only to say that he had every confidence in both his hon. Friends' names (Mr. Divett and Mr. Stewart); but that as a substantive motion had been made for the nomination of the hon. Member for Exeter
 653
 Mr. James  could not avoid observing that the discussion which had this evening occurred was calculated to depreciate this House in the eyes of the country.
 Lord John Russell , in reply, said, that he had omitted these towns on account of their small population.
 Lord John Russell  admitted that such was, perhaps, the fact, but none of those towns had enjoyed the advantages of a Municipal Corporation before. If the right hon. Gentleman could show him that any of these large towns with 10,000 inhabitants had had Municipal Corporations, he would restore their names in the schedule.
 Colonel Perceval  wished the noble Lord would be good enough to state, whether it had come to his knowledge that this attack had been committed by Orangemen. For his part, he was not aware that any such description of persons existed in Ireland.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that it had been reported to him some time ago, that preparations were making in this country for the manufacture, on an extensive scale, of sugar from beetroot. He at once called the attention of the Boards of Excise and Customs to the circumstance, stating, at the same time, that the Government would introduce a Bill on the subject in the course of this Session, not for the purpose of checking the manufacture, but to prevent its being carried on without paying any duty at all, while other sugar was burthened with a duty of 24 s. 636
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that with regard to the West Indies, a charter had been given by the Crown last summer to enable a company to establish a bank in the West Indies, not conferring any exclusive privileges, but merely giving them the power to bank so far as this company was concerned. That bank was, he believed, now in operation. An application had also been made in the course of last summer for a charter for a bank to be established in the East Indies. He had communicated the views of the applicants to his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control. His right hon. Friend considered it desirable, before the Government came to a decision on the subject, that a communication should be made to the local government, and till an answer was returned to that communication, no further steps would be taken by the Government.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  promised that they should have the fullest opportunity of stating their sentiments, and that he would give them every consideration.
 Mr. Shaw  was understood to remark, that more than one of them had a population of 10,000 persons.
 Mr. Shaw , with reference to the motion before the House, observed, that on a comparison of the schedules of this Bill and that which was presented to the House last year, he found six towns omitted in the schedule of this Bill which were inserted in the schedule of the last year's Bill. He wished to ask the noble Lord on what principle these towns were now omitted?
 Mr. H. Grattan  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, whether he had received any official account of the disturbances that had lately taken place in the north of Ireland, which according to accounts contained in private letters, were of a very exaggerated character? He did not know, whether the assault was the result of the meeting at the Mansion-house; but it was stated, that the Orangemen had waylaid the Catholics who were returning from a fair, and that upwards of fifty of the latter were dead or wounded.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to ask the right hon. President of
 635
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether an opportunity would be afforded to those who were connected with the outports of representing to the Government their opinions on this question?
 Lord Morpeth  had not received any authentic information on the subject.
 Lord Morpeth  possessed no authentic information on the subject; and, therefore, it was out of his power to answer the question put to him by the hon. and gallant Officer.
 Mr. Bellew  would feel very much obliged to the House if they would for a few minutes listen to the observations which he wished to make, and he assured them that he would not abuse their indulgence or trespass at any very unreasonable length upon their patience. The Catholic question was for forty years the great stumbling-block amongst statesmen in legislating for Ireland, and it appeared unfortunately that it was not yet removed, for let hon. Gentlemen disguise it as they might, the whole beginning and end of their argument amounted to this—"The people of Ireland are Catholic; we cannot, therefore, trust them with the management of local affairs; the people of England are Protestant, and they may be so trusted." For it must be borne in mind that it was not sought by any one to defend the present corporations, or to consider their total abolition as any injustice. The interests of the present Protestant corporators were most unceremoniously dealt with, just in the same way as were the Brunswick clubs at the time of emancipation. He regretted the more deeply that this feeling should continue to be mixed up with so many Irish questions, because he had the other night a most gratifying proof, when this feeling did not interfere, how anxious Gentlemen on all
 691 692 693 694
 Mr. Charles Butter  observed, that, although he had already risen once and had not been fortunate in catching the Speaker's eye, he was rather glad it had happened so, as it had afforded him an opportunity of listening to two speeches from Gentlemen on opposite sides of the House—speeches which, temperate in themselves, had this very remarkable novelty in their favour, that they spoke to the question before the House. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had preceded the last two hon. Members had taken a very different course. He had found apparently so little to grapple with in the speech of the hon. Member for St. Alban's, that he had been obliged to recur to the first speech of the noble Lord on bringing this question forward the other night, and to a speech made by Mr. Fox forty or fifty years ago, for materials for his speech. The noble Lord the other night had certainly made one quotation from Fox which had evidently made a very deep impression upon the hon. and learned Gentleman and other hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House. It was where the great orator spoke of a "miserable monopolizing minority," a description perfectly true in itself, very personal, and moreover very alliterative. This it was which had evidently galled hon. Gentlemen opposite no little. For his own part, however, he did wonder very much whether it would be possible at any time to carry on a discussion on this subject without endless references to policemen and magistrates, whom under other circumstances they would never have heard of—eternal allusions to the Catholic Association, and interminable extracts from all the speeches delivered by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, at public dinners for the last fifteen or twenty years. Above all, he was anxious to know whether it would ever be feasible for hon. Gentlemen to conduct such an argument without constantly using taunting allusions to the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the subserviency of his Majesty's Ministers to him—themes which he had himself heard repeated ten thousand times on a moderate calculation, and which, therefore, might well be sup-
 698 699 700 701 702 703 704 705 706 707 708
 Viscount Morpeth continued : Let the House consider the summary of the case of the Carters. It has been tried three times. In the two first instances the jury were not agreed. The question then came before his right hon. and learned Friend whether the same parties should be tried a third time. Evidence had transpired to attach suspicion to another party, and the right hon. and learned judge had to say, whether the same persons should be put on their trial again, and whether, if so, the persons against whom suspicions had just arisen should be tried with them. The three prisoners were tried together; and on this third trial an approver committed an error in identifying, the party; yet now, because on this third trial the jury could not find the men guilty, it was stated that justice was not done in Ireland. The hon. and learned Member has quoted other cases, and into the particular circumstances of those cases I shall make it my business to inquire. I was in my place during the whole Session; my right hon. and learned Friend, the Master of the Rolls, then Attorney-General, was also in his place to meet any charge that might be made respecting this very case of Mr. Carter. But not one word was said of it; neither was one word said of Mr. Fogherty's case then. But the great secret of Mr. Fogherty's offence was, the decision which he formed in the case of lodgers, at Belfast. The great outcry raised against him was, that he, in order to try the
 741 742 743 l. l. 744 745 746 747
 Lord Stanley  said, that it had been his intention undoubtedly not to have offered any observations to the House in the course of this evening; feeling, in the first place, that the general impression on the part of the House was, that this debate must necessarily be prolonged, and feeling, also, that the course which the debate had taken this evening, so far as he had heard it, was a course which rather led into those details and minutiae which were properly discussed by those hon. Gentlemen alone on one side and the other, who were conversant with the facts, and acquainted with the details which had reference to Ireland; and because the speech of his noble Friend, until indeed that extraordinary conclusion to which he came, was rather a reply to the details, or to a small portion of the details, brought forward upon the challenge of Ministers themselves by the learned Sergeant (Mr. Jackson) behind him. But the conclusion o, his noble Friend's speech rested the case upon broader, upon plainer, upon more intelligible grounds, and upon those grounds he avowed—grounds connected with the maintenance and security of the Protestant religion in Ireland—that fearless of the scorn, and fearless of the contumely, with which the very name of a Protestant appeared to be received upon the other side of the House, fearless of any such eflections, and not with standing the taunts which had fallen from his noble Friend against those who desired with him
 748 Morpeth Morpeth Interruption 749 750 751 great cheering  sine quâ non; 752 753 754 755 1. 756 rationale interruption 757
 Lord F. Egerton  had not alluded to the speech of the noble Lord, but to the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland. [Viscount  Morpeth 665 666 Member: 667 668 669 670 " Omnia transformant sese in miracula rerum," 671 locus standi 672 673 674
 Lord Francis Egerton , in rising to move an instruction to the Committee, said, that he could hardly hope that the circumstance of this being the second occasion on which he had undertaken, in deference to the wishes of those with whom he poliically acted, to do what the House would admit he very rarely presumed to attempt—namely, to offer his suggestions as to the course which it was befitting the House to pursue on a question of great public interest and national concern—he could hardly hope that the circumstance of this being the second time of his bringing forward the motion which he should have the
 658 659 660 Members: ex officio 661 662 663 664 divide et impera.
 Lord John Russell  had not made this charge against the central Government, but he had stated that it was abetted by some local magistrates.
 Mr. Maclean  said, if he had risen for the purpose of replying to the arguments of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down he certainly should not have been called on to discharge a very difficult task, for he had listened to the hon. Member with some degree of attention, and could affirm that there was in his speech but one point of an argumentative character, but one question put in such a manner as to lead the House to believe that he desired an answer to it. That question was, "What did the Administration of the present day propose to do with the Protestant Chinch of Ireland?" But, although this subject had been fully investigated by men quite competent to the task, yet he felt that it was still the duty of English Members to show, however humbly, their sympathy with the minority in Ireland—of those who were about respectfully to approach that House with proofs that they were a suffering minority. The noble Lord at the head of the Government in that House, however, had lately quoted sentiments from an authority which, when mentioned in that House, invariably re-
 680 681 682 683 684 685 686 687 688 689 690
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said, that in the few observations which he meant to offer on this measure, and upon the general condition of Ireland, he did not propose to adopt the recommendation of the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), that he should omit from the consideration of the question all reference to the Government, and to the state of public feeling in the country. He did not mean for the amusement of that hon. Gentleman, to enact the part of Hamlet without the court and Ophelia. He was desirous to justify himself from the charges which had been made against him and those with whom he acted by the hon. Members for St. Alban's, and the county of Louth. The hon. Member for St. Alban's had imputed to them religious intolerance, in refusing to establish further municipal power, for no other reason than that the more numerous body of Roman Catholics ought to have this power; and the hon. Member
 716 717 718 719 720 721 722 723 1. 724 l. 725 v. alibi 726 alibi 727 728 l. l. l. l. 729 The Gazette 730 731 732 733
 Mr. Poulter  said, that he was as fully prepared as any hon. Member on the other side of the House to resist to the
 711 712 "fallacia temporis." 713 pari materiâ 714 715 Actum, inquit nihil est; ni Pœno milite portas Frangimus, et mediâ vexillum pono suburra.
 Mr. John Young  wished to stale briefly his own view of the question. As an independent man he had hoped that parties, after engaging in the warmest opposition, might have made mutual concessions, and arranged this, as they had frequently done other questions, on the solid basis of the public good. Such a consummation seemed hopeless, and he regretted that this would but add another to the melancholy instances how difficult it was to legislate for Ireland, a country where every private interest was permitted to interfere with public interests, and where the heads and hearts of both parties were heated not merely by political but by religious enthusiasm. There were objections which had given great umbrage to the opposite side of the House, in which, as a Protestant Irish Member, he thought it his duty to say he did not participate. It had been urged that the corporations would be filled by Roman
 695 696 697
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  protested that he had not used the expression attributed to him in reference to Mr. Dillon; he had said nothing of the sort.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that all he said was, that a party in question was giving his advice as to the challenging of jurors.
 Mr. Borthwick  denied the validity of the argument founded by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down on what had been formerly done by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. The question was not what might have been clone by that hon. Baronet on a previous occasion, but what it was wise and expedient to do at the present moment. For his own part, he should much like to see the position of both parties in that House such as to render necessary an appeal to the people that very night on the measure brought forward by his Majesty's Ministers, and he was ready fearlessly to stand by the result. He might ask what there was in the present condition of Ireland which called for the application of municipal corporations to that country? he might, even if he admitted that those corporations were as corrupt as was asserted by their greatest enemies, ask what remedy for such corruption could be found in putting power into the hands of an opposite and contending faction, and bringing into annual collision all the prejudices and partisanship of the country? he might ask whether, it being at present difficult to maintain legal rights in Ireland without bloodshed, to do so would not be attended with infinitely more difficulty amidst the general hostility and disturbance which the new municipal law must occasion? But he wished to place the question upon that proper basis on which, from its first agitation to the present hour, it had not hitherto been placed. The supporters of this Bill demanded justice for Ireland. He was quite ready to admit that as much justice should be done to Ireland as to
 709 in prospectu l l 710
 Mr. Ward  said, it was now just one year since the noble Lord brought forward a motion precisely similar to the present, similar both in spirit and in words, resting upon the same grounds, supported by the same arguments—for the only new argument which the noble Lord had employed, was that founded upon the existence of the General Association—and leading to the same results, which would be produced by the present motion, if successful, namely, to extend and perpetuate that feeling of irritation amongst the Irish people, which the refusal of one branch of the Legislature to do them justice, had unfortunately caused. Was the House never to escape from this vicious circle when Ireland was concerned? The people complained of the want of justice, and justice was to be denied to them because they complained. If they were silent, what would be the inference? Why, that they were indifferent to the matter in dispute—that they could not appreciate the value of municipal institutions, and cared little for the been which the Legislature wished to force upon them. This was always the logic of the Conservative party; silence and indifference were always synonymous. In 1831 the people of England, according to Mr. Croker, were indifferent to the Reform Bill, because the three preceding years there had been few petitions for reform; nor was it until the table had groaned under the weight of petitions from every corner of the empire that they could be undeceived. What then was their course? Why, they exclaimed against the vehemence with which the claims of the people were expressed, and protested they would never yield anything upon compulsion. They did yield, notwithstanding, and just in time to preserve this country from a revolutionary struggle. But now, untaught, unwarned, they were repeating the same experiment in Ireland, forgetting that it must lead inevitably to the same result. Yet surely much had passed, even since last Session to convince them of their error. Was the noble Lord satisfied himself with the results of his motion? Had he put an end to agitation in Ireland, by witholding municipal institutions? What
 675 676 677 678 animus 679
 Viscount Morpeth : The expression regarding him that he was generally believed to be a participator in the crime.
 Viscount Morpeth : As this debate, Sir—as far, at least, as concerns the motion put into your hands—is an exact representation of what took place last year, not only being, as I believe, exact in point of time and in its circumstances, but in the letter in which it was drawn up, I should hardly have thought it necessary to express my opinion fully on the subject. And on this occasion, also, I feel that it is not very necessary for me to go into an examination of the arguments that have been brought forward on the other side after the admirable and impressive speech we have heard from my hon. Friend, the Member for Liskeard (Mr.
 734 735 736 "We, the undersigned Jurors, who tried the case of The King, at the prosecution of Richard Renison, against Daniel Magrath/ at the last Sessions held at Dundalk for the county of Louth, hereby certify that we did not find the said Daniel Magrath guilty on the first count of the indictment, viz., of writing a letter with intent to provoke the prosecutor to fight a duel, not conceiving that letter to have been written with unfriendly feelings towards the prosecutor. That it was with great hesitation and reluctance we found him guilty on the second count, viz., posting the prosecutor; as, from the evidence laid before us, we conceived the said Daniel Magrath had been hurried into such posting under feelings greatly excited by the conduct of the prosecutor himself. The third count was merely general and formal. We, on the occasion of finding him guilty, recommended him to the mercy of the Court; and having heard that he has been sentenced to a month's imprisonment in the gaol of Kilmainham, to pay a fine of 100 l. l. l. 
 
 "John Godby, Foreman Pat. Gennings 
 John Carrol Nich. Markey 
 Robert Sheckleton Symon Byrne 
 John Chambers John Robinson 
 Pat. Connick Nich. Callan 
 William Skelton William Corbally." 737 "He should now mention a matter of fact illustrative of the practice, and it was one which he thought would occasion some surprise in the minds of Englishmen. It was the case of a Protestant family, named Carter, resident in the Queen's county; they were tenants of Lord Maryborough, and, at the time to which he referred, were in possession of a piece of land, for which they paid rent, and to which they were justly entitled. They proceeded to fence it in. An attack was made upon them, and one of those poor men was so severely beaten that he lost his senses, and he believed was at present the inmate of a lunatic asylum. The same parties beat the elder Carter, and put him to death. They were indicted for murder. One of the parties known, or at least very generally believed, to have been assisting in the perpetration of this crime, openly, in the noon-day, was giving his assistance to the prisoners respecting their challenges of the jurors; but the Crown no longer exercised its privilege of putting by, and of course there was no verdict." 738 "10, Clare-street, Feb. 11, 1837. "DEAR MASTER OF THE ROLLS,—I have just read the report of Jackson's speech, to which you referred me in your note. I never before heard the slightest imputation against Mr. Dillon (the person to whom I presume he alludes as one who was generally believed to have been a participator in Carter's murder), and I really was exceedingly surprised at the Serjeant's statement in this respect. With respect to Mr. Dillon assisting the prisoners' attorney as to the challenges he should make, all I can say is, that I did not see him do so, and that neither did, as I believe, Mr. Geale: Mr. Dillon belongs to what is called the liberal party; he is a brother-in-law of Mr. Lalor, the late Member for the Queen's County, and either has been called, or intends, I hear, to be called to the bar. The Crown solicitor, acting upon the instructions he received not to set aside individuals on account either of their religion or their party politics, did not object to Mr. Dillon being on the first jury, not being aware of there being any other ground of objection to him. With respect to the second statement of Jackson, that on the succeeding trial a convict, a man found guilty of offences of the same class with those for which the prisoner was indicted, was on the jury, it was discovered, after the jury had been sworn, that a man of the name of Fitzpatrick (an extremely common one in Queen's County) was on it, who had been about three or four years previously convicted of a riot. Some doubts, exist in the mind, I believe, of Mr. Geale whether the juror and the convict were one and the same person. There certainly was a Fitzpatrick indicted in 1833, but his prosecutor was also indicted by the Crown for perjury. At the last trial of those tried for the murder of Mr. Carter, the next of kin, or some person professing to act on their behalf, called on the Crown to abandon the prosecution and to allow them to conduct it, with a view manifestly to the selection of a jury. This we refused to do, and also declined to allow an interference with the conduct of the trial. Mr. Geale, however, stated in court to the attorney of the next of kin, that if he would suggest to him any substantial cause for setting aside any individual he would do so, but that he would not exercise that right merely because it was alleged that a man was of this or that party. Had we acceded to the wishes of the next of
 739 "In summer assizes, 1835, there were, I learn from the solicitor, forty-one convictions out of fifty-seven trials on the home circuit. "In Lent, 1836, out of one hundred and thirteen trials, there were eighty convictions, and in three cases the juries disagreed. "In summer, 1836, out of sixty-seven trials, there were forty-six convictions, and five cases in which the juries could not agree. "Now, out of the whole of these cases, I could not fix upon a dozen in which I should have differed from the juries, nor do I recollect half a dozen in which I thought the Crown had any reason to complain. It appears to me, therefore, an unfair way of judging of the operation of a general principle, by selecting for observation a particular case like that of
 740 "Believe me, dear Master of the Rolls, "Always truly yours, "E. TICKELL."
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the charter of the Bank of Ireland expired next month, and no proceedings had hitherto been taken with respect to its renewal. He had, therefore, been instructed by his constituents to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was his intention to bring forward any measure relating to the Bank of Ireland?
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  observed, that the hon. and learned Member who had last spoken, had addressed the House for an hour and three quarters, and yet there was not one word in all that long speech that bore upon the question then before the House. The question for debate was whether municipal corporations were to be granted to Ireland. After the able and powerful manner in which the subject had
 792 793 794
 Mr. Vesey : said Unwilling as I feel to prolong the debate, and anxious as I am to avoid all subjects foreign to the great subject now under deliberation, I feel myself imperatively called upon to make a few observations to the House to corroborate the statement of my learned Friend, the Member for Bandon, relative to a case in which I am almost personally concerned as involving the character of my noble Relative with regard to the manner in which he has discharged his duties of Lord-Lieutenant of the Queen's County in this particular case, namely, that of Mr. Cassidy, and if the House will bear with me for a very short time I will briefly recapitulate the reason, why my relative refused to recommend Mr. Cassidy for the commission of the peace, and I will also prove the incorrectness of the statements made by the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, when he attempted the other evening to justify Mr. Cassidy's appointment. This Gentleman was recommended by Lord de Vesey by several Members of the Queen's County liberal club, many of whom I believe are also members of the National Association, and although Lord de Vesey knew the general character of Mr. Cassidy he yet thought to make the most minute and accurate inquiries on the subject and on ascertaining the actual facts he wrote the following letter to Government.
 "Abbeyleix, Feb. 2, 1836.—Sir, I had an opportunity yesterday, at the road sessions, where there was a large assemblage of Magistrates, to make inquiries respecting the gentleman for whose appointment to the commission of the peace an application had been made to his Excellency the Lord-Lieutenant. Mr. Cassidy is, I have reason to believe, though I could not accurately ascertain the fact, a clerk in his brother's distillery, which circumstance, according to the instructions I received, precludes my recommending him for the Magistracy. He was, I understand, fined 10 l. 796 "Jacob Henry, of Closeland, in the said county, saith, that he was duly authorised by warrant under the hand and seal of William Kinsella, high constable and collector of the barony of Portnahinch, to collect a part of the county cess. Deponent further states, that on Monday, the 21st instant, he went and demanded the amount of Mr. Robert Cassidy, part of the said tax due for the lands he holds in Ballytayduff, at the same time producing to the said Robert Cassidy his warrant, and also receipts for the said amount, filled and signed by the said Kinsella. Deponent further states, that the said Cassidy refused to pay the said tax, upon which deponent said he would seize for the amount; whereupon the said Cassidy said, 'Seize as soon as you please,' or words to that effect. On deponent's proceeding so to do, and turning into the said Cassidy's yard, he was met by the said Cassidy, who called to his steward (Austin Cavanagh), and ordered him not to let this deponent take anything off the lands. Deponent then seized a horse and cart which were in the yard, when the said Robert Cassidy did, aided and assisted by Austin Cavanagh, rescue said horse and cart by taking hold of the horse by the bridle, and saying, he would not allow deponent to take him." l. 797 "William Kinsella, of Coolbanagher, in Queen's county, collector of the county tax for the barony of Portnahinch, saith, that on Tuesday, the 22nd inst., he went to the lands of Mr. Robert Cassidy, of Jamestown, to collect a part of said tax, and on demanding the amount due by said Robert Cassidy was refused; whereupon deponent seized a mare, the property of said Robert Cassidy, for said amount of tax due, and was in the act of bringing her to Ballybrittas pound, when he was followed by James Byrne, and a boy, that deponent heard and believes was Patrick Cavanagh, son to said Robert Cassidy, steward. He was also met on the road in Jamestown by a number of men—viz., Austin Cavanagh (steward), Edward Malone, Timothy Strong, both the latter armed with forks in their hands, Edward Malowny, Bryan Dunne, and Michael Dunne; some of the latter men had shovels in their hands. Deponent further states, on said James Byrne coming up, he seized said mare, assisted by said Edward Malone, who appeared with a pitchfork in his hand, and raised it in a fighting position. The other persons above-named also assisted, and said the mare should go back, and Austin Cavanagh (steward) said at the same time what their master had done, they would now do the same, and thereon they, in a riotous manner, rescued said mare from deponent." l. 798 l. "I can have no hesitation in saying, that had I been applied to by a Magistrate of the Queen's County to recommend him as a proper person to be appointed Magistrate for the King's County, knowing that he, a Magistrate, had been convicted by the Magistrates of the King's County for an offence against the laws, such as you have described, and by neglecting to appeal, had admitted his guilt, I should not, for a moment, have thought of recommending such a person. To have recommended any one under such circumstances, would have been, in my opinion, highly improper; had the Government, notwithstanding, forced the appointment of such a person, I should have felt that they had taken a course which could not be justified. I have always thought, that magisterial appointments were not to be made on political grounds, and, therefore, that the Government were not to interfere with the lieutenants of counties in the appointment of the magistracy, except where there was clearly an abuse of authority, the lieutenant refusing to recommend, without sufficient reason, a per. son having an indisputable claim to the commission of the peace from his property and station in the county; and while I have always felt that a very grave imputation indeed would attach to any lieutenant of a county for the abuse of his authority, I have also thought, that an equally grave imputation would he against Government for an abuse of theirs." 799 "There is one fact more, which I think it right to mention to you—that the Government have made an appointment in this county of which I disapproved; it was in the case of Mr. Bannan, a Roman Catholic, who was recommended by the county Members. Of Mr. Bannan, personally, I know nothing; to his appointment as a magistrate my objection was, that he had no property whatever in the King's County, and none in any other county which could be considered as conferring upon him a claim to the commission of the peace. As he was recommended by the county Members, out of respect to that recommendation I felt it to be my duty to make full inquiry, but not to abandon my own opinion in deference to theirs; for surely the appointment of the magistracy should not be made on political grounds. I therefore resisted the appointment of Mr. Bannan to the utmost, but he was, nevertheless, appointed." 800 801
 Mr. William Duncombe  considered, that the hon. Members whose conduct had been called in question ought to have had notice of the presentation of these petitions, in order that they might have attended in their places, and have an opportunity of vindicating their conduct. He was, therefore, inclined to suggest that the hon. Member should defer the presentation until to-morrow or the day after.
 Colonel Perceval  observed, that the speech which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Tynemouth (who spoke from the opposition benches) would have better graced the other side of the House. He was far from impugning the impartiality of the Speaker, but certainly the right hon. Gentleman had called on two hon. Gentlemen in succession who had taken the same view of the question before the House. The argument of the hon. Member for Tynemouth was, not that there was not a vast difference between the condition of England and the condition of Ireland, but because Municipal Corporations had been given to England and Scotland, although the hon. Gentleman disapproved of corporations, yet he was for forcing them on the people of Ireland. The hon. Member had stated, that though since 1793, persons professing the Roman Catholic faith might legally take a part in municipal Corporations in Ireland, yet that they had not been admitted to any share in corporate rights; and because the corporations had been exclusively filled with Protestants, therefore, argued the hon. Gentleman, it would be just to deprive the monopolising party of their privileges, and hand them over to the opposite party—a party whose feelings and intentions were represented by the Catholic Associations. He could not understand the justice of thus taking power from one party to give to an opposing one; but he believed that if the amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire was carried, by which corporations would be done away with, as it was impossible to place them in any position in which no predominant party would prevail—justice would be secured to all parties. The hon. Member for Lincoln, who had indulged in poetic flights—had thought fit to attack the course which had been pursued by the right hon. Baronet, the
 809 810 811 812 Champion, nisi 813
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer  had heard more than one speech delivered by hon. Gentlemen, during the course of the evening, which scarcely contained a single sentence that was applicable to the subject before the House. The hon. and learned Sergeant, the Member for Bandon, had delivered a speech with considerable emphasis, the tendency of which appeared to be to establish the necessity of appointing a Select Committee to inquire into the conduct of the Irish Executive; but he had not heard that hon. and learned Gentleman advance an argument which bore either upon the amendment proposed by the noble Lord (the Member for South Lancashire), or upon the merits of the original Bill. There was, however, one peculiarity in the observations of hon. Gentlemen who, as practical Irish residents, had spoken that night on the opposite side of the House. They had thrown over their predecessors, and had thought it more prudent and politic not to tell the Irish people that the Protestant church was omnipresent in abuse. He now began to perceive what was meant by the expansive principle of the establishment. It was not content with the little circle of tithes and hierarchies, but now it expanded with a vengeance, and swallowed up a score or two of corporations. They say (proceeded the hon. Gentleman), that one crime can only be defended by another, and your way of defending an unequal ecclesiastical establishment is by stifling the power of the people in equal political privileges. When the man in the crowd had his hat stolen, another obliging gentleman cried "Since you have lost your hat, I'll just make free with your wig." You rob the Irish of their church reform, and then by way of making it up to them you run away with their corporations. Oh! but the Association has sprung up, and Mr. Pigot has been put into office, and these are arguments against corpor-
 802 803 804 805 806
 Mr. Shaw  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, having arrogated to himself the office of censor of the debates of that House, must surely have had the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, particularly in his eye, in the censure with which he Commenced his speech, because it was admitted on all hands that the noble Lord had induced the digressions from the immediate subject of debate, of which the hon. Gentleman complained, and threw out a challenge to the opposition side of the House, which had been boldly accepted and fairly met by his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Bandon. The noble Lord, aided and assisted by another noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, invited, provoked, and compelled a discussion on the general position of affairs in Ireland—he called upon his hon. and learned Friend to go into a justification of the resolutions, condemnatory of the whole course and policy of the Irish Government, which had been passed at the great Protestant meeting in Dublin; his hon. and learned Friend had, he apprehended, given a full answer, to the entire satisfaction of the House and the country, and to the great dissatisfaction and discomfiture, he had every reason to believe, of the noble Lord and his Colleagues in the Government. He was determined, however, not to deserve in this respect any portion of the censure of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and should therefore direct the few observations with which he thought it his duty to trouble the House immediately, to the
 838 prima facie, 839 840 841 842 bonâ fide 843 l s d bonâ fide 844 845 846 847 848 l 849 850 851 852 divide etimpera. 853 854 855
 Mr. George Young  was of opinion that, though a few centuries since, municipal institutions might have been extremely
 807 808
 Mr. Warburton  said, that two petitions had been placed in his hands, containing allegations very seriously involving the privileges of the House, and detailing proceedings directly in contravention of the standing orders of the House. The circumstances described in these petitions very materially affected the conduct of some hon. Members of that House, so far as those Members had entered into connexion with a
 770
 The Speaker  thought the petition irregular, as asking for a grant of money.
 Mr. Roebuck : I am happy to rise after some hon. Gentlemen who have spoken more immediately to the question before the House. There is something very difficult to grapple with in the sort of arguments which were yesterday used, which were drawn from isolated cases, not with reference to the general question of Municipal Corporations for Ireland, but regarding only certain proceedings respecting Mr. Cassidy or Mr. Fogarty. I believe that we have here met to determine whether the population of Ireland should have a municipal system for the government of their own internal affairs, without rendering it necessary to dwell on the proceedings of certain Orange Lodges, or on the registration of Sligo, or any petty grievance as to the executive Government in Ireland. Supposing that the Executive Government of Ireland is unworthy of the confidence of the House, i
 826 prima facie prima facie 827 828 829 830 831 832 833 834 835 836 837
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  proceeded to observe, that he should have been glad to have been spared the necessity of again intruding upon the patience of the House, as he had on a former occasion partaken largely of its indulgence; but he trusted the House would be of opinion that the allusions which had last night been made to him, in the speech of the noble Lord on the opposite benches (Morpeth) had rendered it imperative upon him to present himself to its notice, in order that he might justify the statements he had made when he last addressed them, and vindicate the conduct of those with whom he had had the honour to act. He had not voluntarily put himself forward in a former debate, but he had risen on account of observations which fell from the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, on that occasion, in order to justify the resolutions, and more especially the 13th resolution, which had been passed at the Protestant meeting in Dublin. The noble Lord had himself thrown down the gauntlet, and stated, that he was prepared to defend the conduct of the Irish Government, which was impugned, thus identifying himself with the acts of that Government. He, therefore, having taken an active part in the proceedings of the Protestant meeting in question, had thought it his duty to come forward in justification of those proceedings, with which the noble Lord had been pleased to find fault. The learned Sergeant, after complaining that he and the
 774 775 776 777 778 779 780 781 totis viribus 782 "I take the liberty of mentioning, for your information, a circumstance relating to Mr. Laurence Cruise Smith, of Snugborough, in this neighbourhood, whose name you may see gazetted as one out of nine stipendiary magistrates just appointed (in the  Evening Packet 783 784 "I am enabled to give you some information of Lord Mulgrave's doings in his recent lour of general gaol delivery through the county of Leitrim. There were upwards of twenty persons, charged with various offences, enlarged by Lord Mulgrave, in person, from the gaol of Carrick-on-Shannon. Some had been tried before the Judges of Assize last summer, and others at the July Sessions preceding Lord Mulgrave's arrival. Some under rule of transportation for larceny; one for intent to do some bodily harm, under Lord Ellenborough's Act; and two ringleaders, named Michael Burne, and a man nicknamed Tinker Glancy, were tried and convicted before the Assistant-Barrister, Mr. Finlay (a Whig, too). The former was convicted on four or five separate indictments for riots and assaults in fairs and markets, and his sentence was six months for the first offence; six months more, in addition, for the second offence; six months more, in addition, for the third offence; and one month more, in addition, for the fourth offence, a common assault—in all nineteen months, and every alternate month, for twelve months, to be kept to hard labour. Glancy (called the Tinker) was convicted also on different indictments, and his sentence was twelve months, and every alternate month to be kept to hard labour. Yet these are the men selected by Lord Mulgrave, in the plenitude of his power, upon whom he deemed it necessary to exercise the prerogative of the Crown, and that before the arrival of another quarter sessions, or consulting the barrister or magistrates, as I have been informed and believe; and, so far from this being a check upon outrage, I have seen Michael Burne, shortly after his enlargement, arraigned before the magistrates for disturbing the peace; and, so far from Lord Mulgrave's merciful intentions having had any salutary effect upon the peace of the country, an attempt has since been made to take the life of the Rev. Mr. Hogg, an exemplary Protestant clergyman (and a curate, too), and burn his premises. Yet what was the reward offered
 785 l. l. O'Connell: "There was, however, a curious instance of the bad effects of his Excellency's clemency, in the case of Margaret Lynch, who was convicted on the 23rd of October, 1835, of stealing in the dwelling-house of Mr. George Langley. She was discharged by his Excellency, and was tried again on the 12th of August, for breaking the windows of George Langley on the 29lh of July, when it appeared that she had been on that day discharged, by order of the Lord-Lieutenant, and went straight from the gaol to take vengeance on Mr. Langley, by breaking his windows. However, it seems thas she had worked out nine months of her conviction, When his Excellency visited the
 786 "An individual, named Joseph M'Cormick, was sentenced at the Spring Assizes, held at Trim, in the last year, to transportation for life, for having stolen two cows from the lands of Mrs. George Sandy, resident in this parish. During his detention, however, in gaol, previously to removal for transportation, a memorial was drawn up by his own immediate family, or former associates, containing a tissue of falsehood. Upon said memorial, the prisoner's sentence was commuted to imprisonment for one year. This mitigation, however (obtained upon utter misrepresentation), was not deemed sufficient, the prisoner having been released by the Lord-Lieutenant, on his late visit to Trim, previously to the expiration of the legal term of confinement. M'Cormick's first act, upon liberation, was to summon Mrs. George Sandy to the Sessions of Duleek for an alleged debt, which she was so far from having incurred, that, in the particular instance of his claim (not to mention others), she had showed him the most unbounded kindness. His claim was not only rejected by the magistrates, but M'Cormick himself was remitted to gaol, upon Mrs. Sandy's affidavit of dread to her property from his persecution. The prisoner left the Court of Duleek, acknowledging that he could not in Ireland find two securities in ten pounds each, and subsequently, on his way to gaol (where he now is), told the Serjeant of police that he had summoned Mrs. Sandy for the mere purpose of annoyance and revenge. His character (quite irrespectively of this transaction) can be proved by respectable witnesses to be a most abandoned one." 787 788 Hue and Cry, Hue and Cry
 Mr. Dillon Browne  begged to explain. He should not have intruded himself upon the notice of the House but for the remark which had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo, who had certainly quoted the words which he had used on the occasion to which he had referred; but the gallant Officer had mistaken the application of them. He had applied the words in speaking of those persons who would receive a bribe. He had said that if any individual could be base enough to receive a bribe, it would not be too great a punishment to such a person to have cross-bones and a death's head marked on his doors. He thought this was a sufficient explanation of the matter. He could understand, however, the feeling under which the charge had been made; he knew the slight tenure on which the hon. and gallant Officer held his seat for Sligo; and he was proud to say, that the position in which the gallant Officer stood was
 814
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped that no considerations of irregularity would prevent the House from entertaining the petition. He was ready to admit, that on such a question, no considerations of money ought to stand in the way, nor had they; the question which had presented itself to the consideration of his Majesty's Government was, whether the exertions of Government could be usefully made. Government had been anxious not to establish a precedent that parties who might go long and dangerous voyages, without taking proper precautions, would be entitled, upon their meeting with difficulties, to the interposition of the Government in their behalf. If the case were made out, he was ready to admit the charge was a most serious one; but if the right hon. Baronet would move for all the papers connected with the subject, he would be ready to go into the whole question. The documents on the subject would show that Government had acted with the soundest discretion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 773
 Mr. Wakley  thought, that if the Members of that House were desirous of discharging their duty to the public faithfully and independently, they would pursue the same course with respect to themselves that they were in the habit of pursuing with respect to the public. If the parties whose conduct was impugned had not enjoyed seats in that House, no scruple would have been felt in bringing forward any allegations affecting their characters; and why, then, he wished to know, should they act with this extraordinary delicacy in the case of certain Members of their Own body? If they were not guilty, they would have an opportunity of refuting these charges and establishing their innocence; but, unless the petition were read, printed, and circulated previous to the discussion on the subject, the House would be wholly unprepared for that discussion.
 Mr. Finn  was decidedly of opinion that any petitions or allegations affecting the character or conduct of Members of that House ought not to be laid before the House without an opportunity being afforded to the hon. Members concerned of making their defence at the same time, in order that the bane and the antidote might circulate together.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that as the line in question ran through the county which he had the honour to represent, he hoped he might be allowed to say a word on the subject. Not that he had the slightest idea as to what these petitions referred; he merely rose humbly to submit to the House, that the preferable course would be for the hon. Member for Bridport to give notice of his intention to present these petitions to-morrow, instead of moving that they be now read. This he felt would be the fairest course, because if these petitions were now read, a strong impression would be made on the minds of the House and of the public, which the parties affected would have no immediate opportunity of counteracting.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  had never addressed the House on this important question, and he trusted he should be excused if he stated, as shortly as he could, the grounds upon which he meant to vote for the motion of his noble Friend, the Member for South Lancashire. Upon the measure before the House, he sincerely entertained that alarm at which the noble Lord who had spoken last seemed disposed to sneer. He believed that the Corporations proposed to be granted to Ireland,
 824 825
 Sir Robert Peel  held in his hand a petition, the presentation of which, owing to the peculiar nature of the statement contained in it, he did not feel it right to defer; and although the rule of the House prevented discussion on petitions in ordinary cases, he was sure that the House, in the present instance, would permit him to lay the subject before them. The petition was from Dundee, and related to the case of six vessels at present beset in the ice in Davis' Straits, and praying the House would take into consideration the ease of the crews of these vessels, and that they would grant such sums as might be neces-
 772
 Sir Robert Peel , after the opinion given by the Speaker, would not press the petition.
 Viscount Howick  said, he felt that he should act more in conformity with the general wish of the House than with the practice of some hon. Members, in not following the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite with respect to the questions which he had again brought on, the stage, and which he was totally without the means of discussing. And even as regarded the general subject before us—the question of whether municipal corporations should be established in Ireland or not (it having already in the course of this and the preceding Session been so fully discussed)—the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. Charles Buller) in the able and eloquent speech in which he delighted the House had so completely, in his opinion, established the principle on which the utility of such corporations rested, and the peculiar application of those principles to society—he had so completely established these facts, whilst on the other side of the House there had been such an absence of all attempt to reply to the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he held it to be quite unnecessary for him needlessly to prolong the debate by going into a discussion of the general question. He deemed, it therefore, wiser to confine himself to this one point—a point which had given to this debate a new and deeper importance than it before possessed; he meant the grounds which had been put forward for rejecting the Bill on the other side, in consequence of its being assumed that its adoption would cause increased danger to the Established Church of Ireland. He would not inquire why it was, that during the last Session this argument was not put forward; he would not stop to ask why it had happened that, except in the speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland (Sir James Graham), he did not recollect any stress or weight having been laid upon that argument. Was there a wish on the part of those who held these opinions to excite religious dissensions, and to create religious prejudices in England, Scotland, and Ireland, in the anticipation of the event
 815 816 817 818 The Debates of 819 820 821 822 823
 Lord Stanley  quite agreed with his right hon. Friend in thinking that in a case which so materially affected the whole of their proceedings, it was impossible for the House to refer it to any other tribunal than one of their own. If the facts stated in the petition were true, this was one of the grossest frauds which had ever been attempted to be imposed upon the House. The statement which had been made to night must have the effect of warning hon. Members how they lent their names, their high and honourable names, to projects of which they knew nothing. He had invariably, upon all occasions, refused to lend his name as a director of a company of any sort or kind, and he was quite sure that if gentlemen would only give themselves the trouble of considering the expediency of not allowing their names to appear before the public as nominal directors, from which they could not afterwards shake off the responsibility, though they could, in truth, exercise no direction, they would see the absolute necessity of not yielding to any such solicitations. With regard to the tribunal before which these petitions should be sent, he was rather inclined to the opinion, that it should be referred to the standing orders Com-
 862
 Mr. Morgan John O'Connell  began by alluding to the quotations which had been made by the hon. Gentleman who had just at down, from a speech delivered by the hon. and learned Attorney-General two years ago. It was a pity the passages alluded to had not been discovered in time to use them on the hustings against the hon. and learned Gentleman. To come, however, to the question before the House. The arguments which had been urged by the opponents of the measure were divided into two classes—old and new. On the old, as they were the same which had been urged and answered last Session, he would touch very lightly. One of the principal of the new arguments was, that the Protestant Church Establishment in Ireland was in danger; another, that an Association had arisen in Ireland, pregnant with danger to the tranquillity of the country; a third, that his Majesty's Government had not made their official appointments in Ireland in a manner satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman opposite. With regard to the last point, he wished to know whether the Tories had ever advanced any man to office except a political partisan? Those who objected to the conduct of his Majesty's present Government, in that respect, reminded him of the line in the satirist—
 "Dat veniam corvis vexat censura columbas." 886 887
 Mr. Grove Price  was not in the habit of trespassing upon the attention of the House unless the question for discussion was of such a nature as to call for an open and unequivocal expression of opinion. Such he conceived to be the case in the present instance, and he therefore felt anxious to express, however briefly, his judgment on a measure which he conceived not only of vital importance to the country to which it more immediately related, but to the whole of the British empire. The hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House had thought proper to indulge in some sarcastic allusions to those on his side of the House who opposed the Reform Bill. For himself, he would say, that he too had ever been the open, and undisguised, and conscientious opponent of that measure up to the period at which it was carried. Indeed, so strenuous was his opposition to that question that he would have willingly resigned his life if, by such a sacrifice, he could have prevented its accomplishment. But the moment that question was settled—the moment the fiat of the Legislature had declared it law—from that moment he had used his honest and best exertions to carry out the principle into practical effect. The able, eloquent, and elaborate speeches of his hon. and learned Friends, the Members
 888 889 O' Connell
 Mr. Richards  denied, that the hon. Member for Worcester was at all justified in attributing to hon. Gentlemen at that side of the House such a motive as that of wishing to govern the many for the advantage of the few. He denied that they were actuated by any such feelings, and therefore he thought the observation of the hon. Member for Worcester open to great animadversion. For himself, he could say, that he participated in no such feeling; and he was convinced he might make a similar declaration on behalf of every hon. Gentleman on his side of the House. The noble Lord, the Member for Leitrim, had replied to the facts stated by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, but had he disproved any of those facts? If the desire were to ascertain whether these facts were true or false, why not grant the Committee which the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had demanded? The refusal to grant that Committee would enable the country to judge of the matter for themselves,
 875 876 877
 Mr. Walker  said, a very few words would be quite sufficent to answer the observations, for he could not call them arguments, of the Member for Knaresborough—indeed, he had heard nothing deserving the name of argument during the debate from the other side of the House. The hon. Member boasted that he lived in happy England, enjoying her free institutions in peace and prosperity, and by which means he had succeeded in trade, and had grown wealthy, and that, therefore, he would not agree to this Bill; so, because he saw they were useful to England, he would refuse to give like blessings to Ireland. The same Member, with equal wisdom, observed that the Orange minority monopolised and abused the corporate power, and persecuted the majority of the people;  ergo, 878 879 880 881 882 883
 Lord Stanley : The hon. and learned Gentleman has made a personal attack upon me.
 Lord Stanley : What! no attack? The hon. and learned Gentleman has made an attack on me, knowing that I have not the opportunity of answering him. I do not complain of this; but as he does ask me to explain that which he had not the opportunity of hearing, and yet to which he is replying, I beg to tell him that I did not use the expression that the people of Ireland should not ever be put in possession of corporate reform; but I stated this, that
 931
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to bring back to the recollection of the House, who the claimants were in this case. The Irish people were the claimants before a legislature which was not Irish, and they asked only for that which an Irish Legislature would concede to them. He stood there an avowed Repealer; he stood there as one convinced that the Union should be repealed. He was, therefore, persuaded that the period had not arrived, and he feared it never would arrive, when a British Legislature would be prepared to do perfect justice to Ireland. Everything he had heard that night, and everything which he had witnessed, convinced him the more strongly that there was not the disposition on the part of a great portion of that House, nor in another place, as it was termed, to do justice to Ireland. And yet he saw sufficient to warrant him in not abandoning the hope that the Irish people would be able to obtain justice for themselves. But he should not be doing justice to those who opposed this measure, if he did not caution them against pursuing that conduct which might induce the Irish people to look to constitutional means for the restoration of their own Parliament. He would bring under the attention of the House the history of the connexion between the two countries. It was a fact admitted, that there was no country in the world which had suffered so much from another, as Ireland had from this. This country had had dominion in Ireland for a period of 600 years, and they were still to be deceived by professions and treachery; and now, at the end of 600 years, the British Legislature were as little disposed to do justice as if they were beginning their work for the first time. The Irish people had always claimed British institutions. In the year 1172, in the reign of Henry 2nd, that claim had been made; in the year 1200, in the reign of John, that humble petition was repeated; and, in the reign of Edward 3rd, in the year 1336, the question was taken into
 953 954
 Lord John Russell : The right hon. Baronet had accused the Government of cajoling the Orange societies in Ireland—of inducing them to abandon their Association, and afterwards allowing similar societies to be raised. He denied that charge. No intention whatever had been entertained of cajoling or deceiving any one upon the subject. But those Orange societies were exclusive in their character—they were formed of persons who were exclusively of one religion; and they were secret in their meetings and conduct. It was on that ground that he had asked them to dissolve; and, it was on that ground that they yielded, saying only that all other secret societies should be dealt with in the same way. Whatever might have been the grounds of the dissolution of these societies, he must own he could not see any resemblance whatever between the Orange lodges and the General Association of Ireland. The latter might be considered dangerous or objectionable in different ways; but it did not resemble those secret societies to which allusion had been made. Having said those few words as to the charge of the right hon. Baronet, he would beg to call the attention of the House to the question then before them, and this was a question for the Parliament of Great Britain as to
 955 956 957
 Colonel Perceval : Yes, I deny it. I wish to state distinctly, that I did not say
 925
 Sir Andrew L. Hay  observed, that during the last Session of Parliament, although his name might have appeared in connexion with some railway companies, he had not thought it his duty, nor found it his inclination, to vote either in favour of those Railway Bills with which he was connected, or against those to which he was opposed, nor should he have thought it necessary to address the House on the present occasion, had not his name been prominently brought forward as one of the directors of that company whose conduct was thought censurable by the hon. Member for Bridport. His name was last year on the list of directors of a company for forming a Gravesend Railway, but the Bill for that object was refused by the House, and then, without his knowledge, his name was transferred to the list of directors of this railway company, and he had certainly since that time not directed his name to be withdrawn from that list. At the same time, he must say, that he had not attended the meetings of the directors, he had not signed the deed of settlement, and he had never participated in any proceedings of the company. Having been connected in common with many other gentlemen of high respectability, with this company, he did not now come forward to shrink from the consequences of an act which he must admit was one involving a charge of considerable negligence on his part. The moment, however, he had ascertained that there was any doubt as to
 859
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was of opinion that the House was bound to institute a grave inquiry into the circumstances of this case. He should have been inclined entirely to agree with his hon. Friend in his motion for a select Committee, provided this case had occurred last year, because up to last year there was no other tribunal to which it could with propriety have been referred. At present it would be preferable to refer the case to the standing orders Committee than a select Committee. He did not wish in this, the first instance of the kind which had been brought before the House, to relieve the standing orders Committee of what he conceived to be their special duty.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that he had last year given a silent vote upon this question, and he would have done so this year but for the increased importance which the question had acquired. He would state that there was no question in which the people of England took so deep an interest as this question, and this because it appealed to their sober judgment. He was at a loss to conceive how hon. Gentlemen on the opposition side of the House, who were supporting the Protestant Establishment in that country, could, consistently with their own arguments, impose on Ireland an establishment alien to the feelings of the great body of the people, on account of the Union, and yet pretend, looking to the same Union, to draw a distinction between them and the English people, and deprive them of corporate reform. He had been generally a supporter of the present Ministry, because he saw them, on the one hand, acting as a check upon democracy, which was so unsuited to a mixed Government, and, on the other, opposed to a party to which he should be opposed, who wished to govern the majority for the benefit of the few. It was his opinion that the maintenance of the present Government in Ireland was for the benefit of that country. He had
 872 873 874
 Mr. Henry Grattan  regretted that he had tried in vain to catch the Speaker's eye. He begged to say, that as Gentlemen opposite had made attacks upon Lord Mulgrave's Government, and certain persons appointed to offices by his Excellency, he held in his hand letters and statements from three individuals, Mr. Berwick, Mr. Lawrence Cruise Smythe, and Mr. Cassidy; and he was authorised to give to the charges advanced against these individuals, the most unqualified denial. Mr.
 958
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had anticipated one of the objections which he was about to offer to the plan proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. If his advice were followed, it must materially interfere with the progress of business in this very busy session for private bills. Again, suppose the company withdrew their bill, as they had the power to do, this would stop all proceedings. What would the standing orders Committee do then? That was the second objection. He had
 863
 Mr. Warburton , in conformity with the notice he had given on the preceding evening, rose to present two petitions to which he had adverted yesterday. The first was from the owners of land in Kent, and related to the Deptord and Dover Railway. There were three names appended to the petition, one of which he knew to be that of a most respectable individual. The amount of the capital of this projected company was 3,00,000 l. 856 l., l. l. l. l. l. l., 857 l., l. 858
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. He begged the right hon. Baronet not to misrepresent him. The words he made use of were, "the harlot Church of Ireland;" he said nothing about the Church of England.
 Mr. Brotherton , being in possession of the House, would avail himself of the opportunity it afforded him of saying a few words merely in reference to the remark on which great stress had been laid by the hon. Gentlemen opposite, that Manchester had not manifested a desire to be constituted a corporate town. He thought he should be fully justified in saying that the fact was, that in all classes of inhabitants, and in every degree, it was the unanimous desire to obtain an improved system of local government, on the basis of corporations. The difficulty had been in making an arrangement which would prove satisfactory to the townships which constituted the town of Manchester. There had, however, been a meeting held, and a committee appointed to consider the subject; that committee had made a report, which he held in his hand, and with the leave of the House, he would read the concluding part of it. It was that—" In conclusion, your committee beg most respectfully, but earnestly, to impress upon their fellow-townsmen the importance of an early arrangement of this important subject, and they think that the present time is a most favourable opportunity for effecting it. The subject should not be viewed as a party question, but as one which should have the good of the community for its sole object, by the con-
 864
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  said, that in addition to those Gentlemen whose names appeared in the list of directors, there were many other individuals whose names were well known to the House, and who were quite as respectable and as incapable of acting improperly as any of the hon. Members who had addressed the House. He was satisfied that they would not shrink from the inquiry which the hon. Member for Bridport asked for, and on their part he courted the fullest investigation into these transactions.
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  should not have intruded himself upon the attention of the House, unless his name had been used in connexion with the circumstances stated in the petitions, and for his part he had no wish whatever to shrink from any proper responsibility which could attach itself to him for allowing his name to be placed upon the list of provisional directors. His name had been put down as a director of a railway between London and Ramsgate, and he had said, that if they attempted to carry the railway on to Dover, he would cease to be a member of the company, and he had stated that circumstance as a reason for his withdrawal to the secretary before those petitions were brought forward. But in saying this, he had no wish to free himself from any imputations which could fall on members for the commission of an act of negligence, namely, that when they saw a scheme that they considered likely to lead to national benefit and advantage, they lent it their countenance by permitting their names to be used as provisional directors. He had never attended any meeting of the board of directors, but he would state one point, in justice to the individuals connected with the railway, which he thought of consequence. He thought that this should be a fair Committee, and with that view he should have a very great pleasure in assenting to its formation, with this one point in reserve—that if any party had brought forward these petitions, in order to impede the progress of this Bill, then, supposing the parties implicated should be cleared from the charges brought against them, the House would kindly indulge them with further time, and not permit the Bill to be lost.
 Mr. Sheil : We do not materially differ. In fact, what I insist on is this, that warrants were issued to the army. We have that in the printed reports; we have it, too, stated there that Mr. Boyton moved that warrants should be sent to a particular regiment. We have abundant evidence of the fact, and in consequence of that evidence Lord Hill issued an order to the army. I entreat the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Colonel Perceval) to believe that, if I refer to him, it is in no spirit of unkindness. I fairly and frankly tell him that I do so, because Mr. Pigott being a Member of the Association has been so much dwelt upon by hon. Members on the other side. I point then, to the hon. and gallant Member who was promoted by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tarn worth. I shall only advert to another—Lord Roden, who was also raised to a very high office; he is, I admit, an individual of the highest respect, but a Member of the Orange Association. Surely, then, when the Tories make charges against the present Government for promoting Members of one Association, they ought to recollect that they dwell in so fragile a tenement that they cannot with impunity incur the danger of a tile being flung upon the roof of their place of refuge. So much with respect to one Association; but then the right hon. Baronet has adverted to ether Associations—to the Birmingham Union for instance. What, I ask you, is the reason, if you now condemn these Associations, when Lord Brougham addressed the Birmingham Union, at the time they passed a resolution to pay no taxes—what is the reason that the right hon. Baronet and the noble Lord did not resign—why did he not then refuse to hold office with his then colleagues? Let the right hon. Baronet beware—we have not forgotten his public life, though he may have done so. He and the noble Lord who sits beside him have taken as strong a course in the excitement of the public passions as any one of the agitators who are now the objects of their denunciation. I shall not go into the details connected with Ireland. There is only one point to which I mean to advert—the Government of Ireland—as materially affecting this question. The appointment of Mr. Cassidy
 926 927 928 929 The Mirror of Parliament. 930 Stanley Stanley
 Mr. Sheil  resumed: The people of Ireland relied upon the principles contained in the speech which I have just read. The noble Lord complains that I am making an attack to which he cannot reply. The noble Lord knows perfectly well that although I feel myself, and I speak most unaffectedly, most conscious of my inferiority to him in point of talent, I have never shrunk once when my public duty called upon me to assail him, whether he had a reply or not. I must appeal to the House whether I have made an attack on the noble Lord. I would rather say that there is that in his own breast which reproaches him more than I can do. I stand here, in a constitutional point of view, the noble Lord's equal. The noble Lord knows it. I respect his rank, I respect his talent, I lament his opinions. Let me add that the noble Lord himself is not characterised by mercy to his opponents. No man fears an operation so much as a surgeon. I have always heard that the drummer of the regiment" has the greatest terror of the lash. I will now show the reasons why the "No Popery" cry, which is attempted to be raised, cannot succeed. I wish to show that this question must be carried. We have carried Catholic Emancipation, not against the noble Lord, but against the right hon. Baronet beside him (Sir R. Peel). The right hon. Baronet is as good a debater as the noble Lord, and the right hon. Baronet has discretion, he has great personal influence, and a great hold on the feelings of his country; and with his resistance, which was as immediate and as strong as that opposed by the noble Lord to the present measure, we carried Emancipation. We did that by union, by organization, and by an associated power; we carried it by the Clare election. I beg leave to ask the noble Lord whether, with our power now trebled, we are not able to carry on the immediate result of reform? Let the noble Lord look around. You see the national power: you see Ireland advancing with rapidity in the march of improvement; you see her spirit of union, her intelligence, and, we have to thank the
 932 933 The Evening Mail? The Evening Mail, 934 935 Chartres 936
 Mr. Sheil : No, no! not a personal attack.
 Mr. Sheil : The right hon. Baronet commenced his speech by saying, he believed he was regarded by this side of the House as a sectarian and a bigot; whether his speech was calculated to remove any such injurious impression, I will leave those who heard it to determine. I cannot help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman made use of language, in speaking of the Roman atholics, such as no Roman Catholics in this House have ever applied to the Protestant Church. No Roman Catholic in this House has spoken of the Church of England, or of the Church of Ireland, in language so derogatory as that which they have heard applied to them by a Member of that com-
 923 J. Graham 924
 Mr. Robert Palmer  begged leave to suggest that considerable inconvenience would result from the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to follow. The present was a question of facts, and if the Sub-Committee were to enter into them, one of the Sub-Committees of the 42 would be shut up from going into the investigations which were now before them. At present there were not less than ten or twelve bills before each of these Sub-Committees every day, and it was likely that as the session advanced they would have more claims upon their time. He put it therefore whether, as a matter of convenience, it would not be better to agree to the motion of the hon. Member for Bridport.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  begged leave to explain: he had said more than the right hon. Gentleman attributed to him. What he had said was, that he should cease to be able to defend, with effect, the Union from those who attacked it.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  felt satisfied that it would be excusable on his part to condense into as narrow a space as he could whatever he had to offer, and to avoid travelling out of those topics which constituted the subject matter of debate. It was not his intention to go into the questions which the hon. and learned Member for Bandon, in a speech of two hours' length, detailed to the House. He had not intended to go into any of these matters until he had received a letter from a nobleman that morning, begging him to make some explanation on transactions connected with the hon. and learned Member. He could not refrain from explaining these facts, and though he could not complain of the hon. and learned Member for Bandon having occupied the House so long on the occasion of making his speech, he did not think himself justified in following him through it. To the allusions which had been thrown out against Lord Milltown, he thought it his duty to revert, for the purpose of showing how unthinkingly charges were brought against the King's Government. The hon. Member stated that Lord Milltown, being dis-
 890 891 892 893 894 895 896 897 de facto de jure de facto de jure. 898 l. 899 900 901 902 903 904 905
 Mr. Gisborne  thought that the House should be careful in interfering with these matters before the right time, and that they ought to bring the case before the proper tribunals. He understood that a petition for leave to bring in a bill had been presented to a section of the Committee of 42, which had been appointed this session, and he considered that into all the allegations made by the hon. Member for Bridport, except one point, this section of the Committee would have a right to inquire. He doubted, therefore, whether it would be right to appoint a Committee to conduct an investigation which fell peculiarly within the scope of the duty which this section of the Committee of 42 had to perform. He had not the least desire to screen any of the parties, but at the same time he thought there was some danger of the House stepping beyond its functions, and the present was not the most convenient time for such a Committee to be appointed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  differed from his hon. Friend who had last
 861
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  expressed his satisfaction that the hon. Member for Bridport had acceded to the suggestion which he had thrown out the day before, that Members whose characters were af-
 860
 Sir Frederick Trench  had to congratulate the hon. Member who had just sat down on being the representative of such a town as he had described. It certainly seemed to constitute a brilliant exception to the general state of Ireland. The noble Lord, the Member for Leitrim, had challenged any person to show that a connexion existed between the claims of the Irish people to municipal rights and the Protestant Church in Ireland. He for one was not ashamed to acknowledge himself bigot enough to apprehend that danger threatened the Protestant Church from the measure then before the House, and that it was thereby intended to deliver that Church into the hands of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. The hon. Member for Liskeard had, in the course of the debate, delivered a very eloquent speech, in which he insisted strongly on certain general principles, but these principles though just in themselves, were not applicable in the present instance. The case of Ireland was a peculiar one, and demanded a peculiar treatment. But if he disagreed with the hon. Member for Liskeard, he had heard with the utmost pleasure the hon. Member for Shaftesbury deprecate the system of instalments, and the plan of proceeding on the principle of the wedge—obtaining a little entrance at first, and then by degrees penetrating farther in, until nothing less would be attempted at last than the destruction of the Protestant Church. The noble Lord at the head of the Home Department had, in introducing the measure then under discussion, spoken in very slighting terms of the state of the Protestant clergy in Ireland, and in place of pitying the condition to which they were reduced, the noble Lord had spoken of them with what he considered an unbecoming levity; and, instead of suggesting some means of alleviating their condition, he quoted a trifling poem, to the effect that they were enamoured of their present lot. His Majesty's Attorney-General, when out of office, when speaking of Ireland had used language which had tended to promote the assassination of the Protestant clergy in Ireland, and yet, after having used such language he had been promoted to his present high office. That the House might not suppose he was making so grave a charge lightly, or without due reason, he
 884 * * 885
 Sir James Graham : That was a very nice distinction. The hon. and learned Gentleman would excuse him for saying, that this was a fine-drawn legal subtilty, which he feared would not be so nicely discriminated by the people of Ireland. He must, however, remark, that there was something ominous in such a declaration being made by the King's Attorney-General, that if this question was not carried now—at this particular moment—that he was of opinion that he would not be able to defend with efficiency the Union with Ireland. But he would pass on from this topic to the real question in debate, which was in point of fact, the actual state of affairs in Ireland. He would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through his arguments as to the criminations and recriminations which had passed between different sides of the House respecting the Association in Ireland. It appeared, that that which was one day the Volunteer Association, became shortly after the National Association; and, in answer to remarks respecting this to-day, the hon. and learned Gentleman recriminates the other side with the existence of the Lay Association, and of the Orange Association which was put down last year, but which, was now again got up under another form. And he would remind the House, that although the National Association was on one side, and the Lay Association on the other, that the Lay Association had been formed for the purpose of maintaining the administration of the law, the execution of which duty had been, in some respects, partially or wholly neglected by his Majesty's Government in Ireland. The National Association, however, was formed for the purpose of violating the law, and he must also add, that he considered that that Association continued to receive a most extraordinary degree of indulgence and support from his Majesty's Government. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that he would not go into a defence of the various legal acts of his Majesty's Government. What would the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, say to this declaration of the Attorney-General, after the statement he made the other night? What
 907 908 909 910
 Sir James Graham , could assure the House that he had risen with very great unwillingness. Need he make any excuse for saying so, aware as he was that the subject had been so sifted and winnowed, that he feared the chaff only remained, and that, therefore, the House would be unwilling to hear him on this third night of the debate, and furthermore, because he had presumed, on more than one occasion, to address the House on that very same subject; nevertheless, the vital importance of that subject impelled him once again to then offer his opinions. If he thought the subject important before the commencement of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, he was disposed now to think it of still higher importance. Sectarian as he was called, and almost bigot as he was held to be by hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, he would remind them that he had been the firm, constant, and uniform supporter of the Catholic claims for emancipation; and, as one who supported those claims, he sincerely congratulated the hon. and learned Gentle man on having won his way to the highest office of his profession by his legal abilities, and on having sustained the credit of his appointment by the ability he had displayed in the speech which he had just delivered. Having said that, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would permit him to comment with freedom on some of the topics of that speech. He (Sir J. Graham) had already said, that, in his opinion, the importance of the subject had been increased by what he had heard fall from the hon. and learned Gentleman, whom he understood to have said, that if this question were not carried, then he, the King's Attorney-General, would cease to defend the Union.
 Sir J. Graham : The hon. and learned Gentleman might endeavour, with great legal precision, to make a distinction between the expressions, but in the eyes of the law and the nation there was no dif-
 911 rationale 912 913 914 915 916 917 918 919 920 921 "The rent the envious Casca made," "This was the most unkindest cut of all." 922
 Sir Robert Peel  said, his wish was, at the close of this debate, to have confined himself exclusively to the consideration of the proper subject in question, to have stated briefly and simply the reasons why he could not concur in the arguments which he had heard from the opposite side of the House, to have refrained from any reference to the conduct of the Irish Government, although provoked to do so by the challenge of the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell), and to have treated this subject on its simple and proper grounds. But the hon. and learned Gentleman, by the personal attack which he had just made, for the purpose, not of convincing the reason, but of exciting the passions—of stimulating—he did not say with the intention, but with the effect of widening the national differences—had compelled him to depart from the course which he had prescribed to himself. He would ask, was it wise, was it prudent, was it just to ransack every past debate for every angry expression? Was every hasty expression that might have fallen from an individual in this way to be taken up at once, considered as matter of history, and handed down as evi-
 937 938 939 940 941 Sheil 942 943 944 945 946 947 948 "Quo semel est imbuta recens, servabit odorem Testa diu." 949 950 951 952
 Lord Clements  said, the hon. and learned Sergeant opposite had particularly alluded to the exercise of the prerogative of mercy by the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland; and if the hon. and learned Sergeant were able to prove his grave charge, and induce the House and the people of England to consider that the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland had prostituted the power which was placed in his hands, he would go far to prove that the policy pursued by the Irish Government was the reverse of the most just, the most conciliatory, the most beneficial to the English connexion that had ever been pursued by any Lord-Lieutenant by whom Ireland was ever yet governed. He begged to read a letter which he had received from a gentleman in the county of Cavan—a gentleman as respectable and honourable as any of the hon. Gentlemen whom he saw opposite—a gentleman who was the brother-in-law of the Conservative Member for Cavan, and who had done as much
 865 866 867 868 869 870 871 in statu quo.
 Colonel Wood  said, that he should certainly not vote for this inquiry with the intention to effect a repeal of the present law. If he might venture to say it without giving offence, he would observe, in reference to the speech of the hon. Member for Oldham, "save me from my friends," for that speech had done more to damage the motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire than anything else. He believed the hon. Member for Oldham had conscientiously uttered his opinions. He could not think that the words of the amendment proposed by the noble Lord would give so extensive a range to inquiry as he thought it ought, and entertaining the same opinion as the hon. Member for Berkshire, and wishing to give that inquiry as free a range as possible, he
 1035 1036
 Mr. Curties  again rose, observing that the hon. Member for Berkshire was reading a printed letter.
 Mr. Curteis  rose to order. The hon. Gentleman was reading a speech to the House; it was, in effect, reading a speech, and he submitted that that was contrary to the regulations of the House—it was a breach of order. As to the communication stated to have been received from a clerical magistrate in Sussex, he had only to say, that in Sussex there were no clergymen in the commission of the peace.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn : However reluctant at all times to obtrude himself upon the attention of the House, co Id not content himself with giving a silent vote upon this question. It appeared to him a subject of very vital importance, in which the feelings of all classes of the community, and he could speak particularly with regard to his own constituents, were deeply interested. He had the honour of presenting a petition that night, signed by 2,600, comprising almost all the respectability of the town, which he represented, coinciding with him in politics; and the hon. Member for Surrey (Major Beauclerk) a few nights since had presented another petition from that town, subscribed by a large number of those who differed from him in political opinions; and he was sure he was speaking their sentiments, in common with very many persons in this country, when he said there were many parts of this subject with respect to which there ought to be a full, fair, and most searching inquiry. It struck him as a remarkable fact, that whereas the amendment of the noble Lord fell far short of his speech, undoubtedly the hon. Member for Oldham and the hon. Member for Southwark greatly went beyond the purport of the motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire, of which they were the supporters. It seemed to him that it would be very advisable if some middle course could possibly be devised. As he understood the terms of the noble
 1047 1048
 Lord John Russell  rose to move an amendment. In the first place, he begged to thank the hon. Gentleman, the seconder of the motion, for explaining to the House its real object. He thanked the hon. Gentleman for explaining, that the real object of the motion was, the repeal of the Poor-law Amendment Act. The hon. Gentleman had told them, that that Act was defective from beginning to end, and that it was now sufficiently obvious that, be the circumstances whatever they might, the Act was totally and completely incapable of being carried into full operation; and therefore he, for one, demanded its repeal. This declaration, no doubt, was sufficiently candid, but the hon. Mem-
 1020 1021 1022 1023 1024 "The board of guardians of the Ampthill union represent to us, that a reduction in the poor-rates has been effected to the extent of forty-five per cent; and this not by depriving the aged and infirm or helpless widow of any comfort, but rather, as can readily be proved, by conferring upon them many important benefits, and in truth increased allowances; while on the other hand the habitual sturdy, able-bodied paupers' habits of idleness have been put to the test by the offer of a well-regulated workhouse, where a comfortable maintenance is provided.'' 1025 "He attended nine times between the sixth and sixteenth meetings, while the general arrangements were under discussion; he was present again at the forty-third meeting, but, with that single exception, he has kept away from the board during the whole period in which the real business of the union has been transacted, namely,—the relief of the paupers." 1026 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1027 l. l. l. l. "Since the prevalence of the influenza in my district, I have used every exertion personally to visit the several unions in it, and I have already attended two-thirds of the boards of guardians. I am, therefore, enabled from authority to assure you, that in no single instance have I heard of the slightest complaint, or neglect, or insufficiency of attendance on the poor on the part of the medical gentlemen, who, though worn down with fatigue, appear to me to have performed their arduous duties in the most praiseworthy and exemplary manner." 1028 1029 l l. 1030 "The poor in the union workhouse the report continued, are amply provided for: their diet is wholesome, substantial, at the same time fully sufficient. Their cleanliness is a matter of great consideration; they receive the utmost attention, when needing it, from the very able medical Gentleman who superintends the medical department. Their clothing is suitable; their moral and religious improvement duly attended to; and their general comforts most indubitably exceed by far what they could possibly enjoy elsewhere. The children of both sexes are reared and trained in a manner far surpassing those of independent labourers, generally being well attended to, having both schoolmaster and schoolmistress, and are properly instructed, both morally and religiously so: thus imbibing habits the reverse of what would most probably have possessed them, had they been at large." "At Cookham they have called for a rate of 3 d. s. d. l. s. 1031 "I wanted to talk with you on the almost magical effect I find produced by the new Poor-laws in the south. There I had seen the evil in its 'riotings'; I saw no chance but ruin or change — prompt, effectual, decided, radical change; I began to fear the thing had been pushed too far, the remedy too long deferred; but I am perfectly delighted to find that I was mistaken. The change has been made, and the effect is more than any one could have hoped. I have, in my professional engagement as assistant tithe Commissioner, been much in Sussex and the weald of Kent. I have seen the effect on the poor-rates, the character of the population, the improvement of the land—such a change! I have talked with all sorts of persons, of all sorts of opinions, on other subjects, and have heard but one opinion on this—that the measure has saved the country. I am sick of the pitiful cry attempted to be raised against the measure, and especially at the supposed inhumanity of it. Let any man see the straightforward walk, the upright look of the labourer, as contrasted with what was before seen at every step in those counties. The sturdy and idle nuisance has already become the useful, industrious member of society. No man who has not looked well into human nature, and the practical working of the wretched system of pauperism, can form an idea how different is sixpence earned by honest industry, and sixpence wrung from the pay-table of a parish-officer. I am fully convinced that the measure has doubled the value of property in many parts of the kingdom. This is important; but pounds, shillings, and pence will not measure the value of the change in character which is already visible, and which, I am well convinced, will develope itself more and more." 1032 1033 1034
 Lord John Russell  was prepared to resist any motion which would go to the repeal of the Act, or to any extensive change in its machinery or its details. At the same time, he was willing to go into an inquiry as to the working of the measure by the commissioners, though he had no doubt that it would be found that the commissioners had acted on sound principles throughout. There were, however, many highly respectable individuals who differed from the rules laid down by the commissioners with respect to medical treatment; and in the committee for which he should move as an amendment to the motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire, an inquiry would be gone into on that subject, with the view of seeing whether an improvement might not be made in the working of the Bill in that respect. In the inquiry an opportunity would be given to the Poor-law Commissioners of stating the grounds on which they acted. If, in the result of the inquiry, any amendments
 987
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that having presented several petitions to the House, and one that day from an important portion of his constituents, who, from their situation, were able to speak with more propriety on the operation of the Bill, than some other persons, he could not suffer those petitioners to he under the censure which the noble Lord had cast upon those, whom he charged with raising up a pitiful cry against the Poor-law Act. If there was any cry, it was the cry of humanity to that House, against one of the most cruel, heartless, relentless, and selfish Bills, that was ever devised and passed into a law. The noble Lord had stated what no one doubted, that the operation of this Bill had been highly favourable to a certain class, that it had reduced the poor-rates from 6,000,000 l. l. 1037 1038 l. l. 1039 1040 l. l. "No, no." s. s. d. d. s. 1041 l. l. 1042 1043 1044 1045 l. s. d. 1046 l. l. l.
 The Speaker  said, that it certainly was contrary to the practice of the House, and a breach of order, for any hon. Member to read a speech, but, at the same time, there could be no doubt with respect to the liberty of reading documents, extracts, or communications.
 Mr. John Fielden  said: I have always condemned this Bill, I have voted against it on every division during the time when it was passing, and I am here to night to
 1013 1014 1015 "Partial riots have occurred in different counties; but, by the aid of small parties of the Metropolitan Police, (who, by the provisions of a most useful Act of the last Session, can now be sworn in and paid as special constables in any county of England,) occasionally aided by the support of military force, these disturbances have been put down, without any considerable injury to property." imperium in imperio 1016 imperium in imperio. Essay on the English Constitution "It is in this point of view that the increase of a standing army is really dangerous, and the encouragement of military habits most pernicious; and the reptile is the more to be guarded against, as it would approach without the rattle which gives warning of its vicinity, and serves as a preservative against its poison. A standing army which destroyed the freedom of England, would not march by beat of drum to Westminster and dismiss the House of Commons; it would not proscribe the House of Peers, and deluge the streets of London with the blood of her magistrates. It would appear in the shape of the guardian of order; it would support the authority of the two Houses of Parliament; it would be hostile to none but mobs and public meetings, and shed no blood but that of labourers and journeymen. It would establish the despotic power, not of a single king, or a single general, but of a host of corrupt senators and half a million of petty tyrants.'' 1017 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. 1018 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. 1019 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s.
 Mr. Walter  said, he was merely reading a letter—he was literally reading a letter which had been addressed to him. The hon. Member then proceeded to read as follows:—
 "Ten days ago I was suffering from an attack of cold, and thought that the prevailing epidemic was coming upon me. I had just been sent for, to a house, where the mother was dead, and the daughter-in-law dying of the disorder. In my return from thence, in the damp of the evening, I was met by a messenger, saying that a child of a woman who had been brought into our united workhouse, from a parish eleven miles distant, was dying, and she wished it to be baptised. I conceived that I had nothing whatever to do, rigidly speaking, with this poor infant; it belonged not to my parish; it had been obtruded into our workhouse without any act or consent of mine; and I was not bound to be chaplain to all who might thus be sent thither. A chaplain ought to have been provided by those who made these arrangements. But, on the other hand, I reflected that a child was not to die unbaptised, that a mother was not to be made wretched, because a set of brutal, or, to use a mild term, thoughtless men, had, in the language of the Poor-law Commissioners, made 'an order,' and with the right liberal spirit of
 997 "The union to which my parish is annexed, is the Paulerspury and Stoney Stratford Union, consisting of fifteen parishes, a population of about 8,000, and the guardians all renting farmers and tradesmen.''
 Mr. Walter  said, that these interruptions were really most unhandsome on the part of the hon. Member. The last letter which he read to the House was from a clergyman well known to him. As to the remark of the hon. Member for Sussex, respecting the form of his documents and extracts, he conceived that he had a right to use them in the form most convenient to himself. He should now, with the permission of the House, proceed with the letter:—
 "The board is held now once a fortnight at Stony Stratford, the extreme point of the union which extends nearly nine miles. There was only one relieving officer and one medical man till the spring of 1836 (when another surgeon was appointed to the union); consequently many of the paupers had to send eight miles for relief. In 1836 I made several representations to the Poor-law Commissioners of repeated instances of cruel and oppressive cases. One man had to send near twenty miles before he could obtain any medical assistants. No distinction is made between the honest, industrious labourer, the old and infirm pauper, the idle and dissolute. The allowances to the poor are by no means equal to their absolute wants. One instance will suffice for all. An industrious, sober, and hard working labourer, with a wife and three young children, had no work for seven weeks; he went for relief or work to the board, but could find none; he asked my advice; I told him to go to the board of guardians; for several weeks they would neither give him relief nor work; at last they allowed him four small loaves for himself his wife, and three young children, and they told him to walk every morning for bread from Pury to Stratford (six miles), then to Yardly Gobion, nearly five
 998 "I shall lay a simple statement of a case before you, which, occurring as it did in ray own parish, and verified as it has been upon oath before me, will serve to show the cruel, tyrannical, and merciless operation of that act which professes to have been instituted for the benefit of the truly distressed poor. An able bodied labourer in the parish of Stoke Ash, in the county of Suffolk, having a family of ten children (two at service, eight were living at home with their father and mother), without employment and without victuals, applied on Tuesday, the 15th of November last, to the board of guardians at Eye, to request some relief, and was refused. On Thursday, the 17th, he was compelled to leave his wife and family to seek for work. On Tuesday, the 22d, his wife informed the relieving officer she was going to the board of guardians to apply for relief, as her husband was gone from home after work, and she had no victuals; he said, she might return home, the guardians would not relieve her, and she did return home without money or food. Subjoined are a number of affidavits which show the severe privations which the woman had fortitude enough to endure rather than be immured with her family in the workhouse during the seven weeks and a half her husband was absent. He returned home, it appears, on the 8th of January, 1837, having been absent seven weeks and three days. He could only get ten days and a half work the time he was gone; of course he brought no money home. His wife and family had very little else to eat but dry bread the time he was
 999 s. d. s. d. "The Union of Droxford comprises eleven parishes, containing a population of near 10,000, mostly paupers and labourers. Just before Christmas last the guardians reduced the number of their relieving officers from three to one. The consequence has been a great increase of suffering to the poor? for instance, the parish of Hambledon, having a population of more than 2,000 persons, is visited in a hasty way by the relieving officer twice in the week, Mondays and Fridays; and the medical man there states, that he has had during the past month fifty applications for attendance and immediate want of relief at the beginning of the week, which were obliged to remain unattended till the officers should come on the Friday. I leave you to judge what extreme distress must thus ensue, when families are afflicted with illness which requires prompt relief. Many of the poor are situate six and seven miles from the relieving officer's resi-
 1000 "The Commissioners report that allowances have been easily stopped, and without producing murmurs and complaints. True; but this is due in a great measure to the patience and fortitude with which the poor have endured their privations. A gentleman who has the best means of knowing, in the Bradfield Union, told me on Saturday, that the distress and sufferings he witnesses are inconceivable. I, this morning, procured the particulars of the subsistence of one family in my parish; half an ounce of tea, half a pound of sugar, one pound of lard, one pound of cheese, besides dry bread, for man and wife, and four children. These people endure, and therefore the Commissioners say there is no distress. In the Bradford Union the Board advances loans. Brown, whom a medical person will not pronounce able-bodied, is paying back a small sum given in relief to him when he was ill in the summer. His wife carried six-pence out of the remaining eight-pence halfpenny last week, and was told, she must, without fail, bring the other two-pence halfpenny. I have spoken with persons connected with boards of guardians in different counties, and have been answered, 'We go on very well,' but with the additional observation, 'we have no such practices' (viz. those of the Bradford Union); 'we have been obliged to fight the Commissioners a good deal, and resist their orders.' One gentleman, from Cambridgeshire, said, 'The success seems to depend on there being a good board of guardians, who will not be driven by the Commissioners.' Now I am writing on this subject, I cannot help advert-
 1001 s. s. "The treatment of the helpless poor in Bradfield Union (his correspondent continued) is as follows:—A widow woman, very infirm and old, half a gallon of bread, one ounce of tea, half a pound of sugar and 1 s. d. s. d. S. s. d. s. d. 1002 s. d. "That the said Lucy Watts had been very infirm and sickly for some time past, and a cripple in one hand and one leg; that she was very badly off, having barely the necessaries of life to subsist on. She was refused any allowance by the Board of Guardians, except the offer of going into the poor-house, which she refused, saying, she had rather die at home, if her neighbours would but look to her a little. There was only a crust of bread in the house, which belonged to her son, who received only 4 s. d. "A poor, old, miserable, half-starved man, who was seeking for work, but whom nobody would employ; and who, from a slight bite of a dog, which occasioned the loss of blood from his leg, fainted at the door of the farmer's house where he was requesting work, and he sank from exhaustion the same evening." "Dying they are in great numbers, and die they will, sooner than go into the bastile, as they call it, as did the poor woman herein mentioned." 1003 "What has been the result? The parish is now in a state of excitement owing to a public declaration of the overseers, that in their opinion the poor are dying from want of proper relief—which the relieving officer declares he cannot properly attend to, while the overseers, are forbidden to relieve at all. In our neighbourhood last week a pauper died from neglect; a coroner's inquest sat, and the verdict was, that the relieving-officer had neglected him. The relieving-officer pleaded forgetfulness—but the fact is, that he is overwhelmed with duty, to save salaries, in order that the Poor-law Commissioners and their assistants may have large ones." "An Assistant-Commissioner has been here, and having had his Board of Guardians appointed (which was obtained by interested persons, who wanted the lucrative offices),he has ordered an union of twelve parishes, one and all of which are against it, believing that it will add greatly to their expense, and in the same degree decrease the comfort of the poor people. They are, to be sure, numerous, owing to their longevity, but from their former poverty of living easily kept. In this parish, which contains nearly 4-19ths of the twelve of the union, there are 530 out of much more than 4,000 inhabitants who receive relief, but they receive only 1,348 l. s. s. s. "In that part of the country where I reside, in Morpeth, in the county of Northumberland, there has lately been a union formed for that town, called the 'Morpeth Union,' embracing sixty or seventy neighbouring townships, I was appointed a guardian, and from what I have seen of the working of the measure, I am fully convinced that a more cruel and unjust Bill never passed the House of Commons. I have seen the feelings of the aged and infirm wounded in the most brutal manner, and their pressing wants ridiculed and neglected. I can
 1004 "I have an account of several whole parishes where more than half those who actually want relief, and used to get it, are now deprived of the benefit of the poor-law altogether, and something like half the number, all the oldest and most helpless, are only left on their books, and these are screwed down to an average of 15 d. d. d. d. 1005 l. l. l. l. 1006 "We have no poor (that is, in the province of Styria), which, owing to the question in England respecting the Poor-laws, is deserving of being noticed. No man is allowed to marry till he can prove he is able to maintain a wife and children: and this, with the law of celibacy of the clergy, and the security required by a pecuniary deposit of the military before they can marry—almost an act of celibacy—are checks on population, which would make the hearts of Mr. Malthus and Miss Martineau burn in them for admiration. The result is, the entire demoralisation of the people. The mask of religion helps nothing. At the last grand jubilee in the next parish seventy-two pairs of single women adorned the procession, dressed in white, and covered with garlands and flowers. In eight months forty-four of them were in the family way. Madame Nature is not a political economist, and she does not let her laws be outraged with impunity." "We cannot omit, also, expressing our un-
 1007 "That the infants were found indecently exposed; but whether born alive, or otherwise, there was no evidence; and the jury were of opinion, that the desertion of the children by the parent, was attributable to the injustice and demoralising effects of the bastardy clause of the new Poor Bill." "We think that the system suggested in the Bill, of consolidating immensely extensive unions of parishes, and establishing workhouses necessarily, at great distances from many parishes, and thereby dividing families, and removing children from their parents, merely because they are poor, will be found justly abhorrent to the best feelings of the general population of the country." 1008 "I consider the new Poor-law acts remarkably well, and is one of the best that was ever passed by any Legislature. The check it has put upon drunkenness, with the incentive given to make the best they can of every shilling they receive, is truly wonderful. Our beer-shops were crowded on the Sabbath, from morning till evening; and now I believe very few enter them at all on that day, and almost all go to some place of worship. We are paying our labourers 1 s. s. "They frequent the alehouse quite as much. I think it quite out of the question for a man with a family to save money out of 8s. a-week. Their rents average 1 s. d. d. "Poaching, and petty depredations, have increased in this parish, double to any former year." "I am not of opinion that poaching, and petty depredations, have at all diminished; but that the greater crime of sheep-stealing has increased to a tenfold degree." "They increase daily in number, and the quantity of money spent in them by the labourers is very great. I may be wrong, but I consider them, as at present, constituting the chief obstacle to the assumption of orderly and domestic habits by the labourer. He can hardly return to his cottage at night without passing by one of them; and when he sees a companion or two there, and a comfortable room, and a blazing fire, and knows that he shall be met at home by all the wants of poverty, it is a great temptation to him to enter in and enjoy its luxuries." s. s. 1009 "To be a mere court to register the edicts of a superior Board of paid Government Commissioners. I must (says he) profess my astonishment, that the people of England should have submitted to the exercise of such powers as these Commissioners exercise. They are such powers as no body of men, since the days of the Star Chamber, have legally had in England, and such as no body of men ever ought to have had. Had the Boards of Guardians been open Courts, these powers could not have been put in operation; for public opinion would have compelled the
 1010 "The new Bill professes to be a Bill for the better provision for the poor; but I have yet to learn how this better provision can consist with a total violation of their feelings. The aged pauper who has spent his manhood in labour, thinks as much of his own arm-chair and his own fireside, and he loves the smile of his kindred and his friends, as much as richer men love their enjoyments. I know not how many hearts may be broken if this system of incarcerating the aged in workhouses is to be carried into general execution. Your Board of Guardians a few weeks since came to the resolution of letting the aged paupers out of their prison for a few hours during the day. But of this they were afraid of informing the Poor-law Commissioners, as they must prohibit any such infringement of their barbarous rules and regulations. Is it your pleasure (says he) that your aged poor—the creatures who flee to you for protection from famine— who trust to your benevolence and mercy— should be thus treated? Will you submit to these mandates of a savage relentless economy? The windows in your workhouses are built at the tops of the walls of the rooms. Why? Lest the poor should have the blessing of looking out of them—lest they should forget for a moment that they were in a gaol. Is this a wanton deliberate act of cruelty, or is it a benevolent instance of better provision for the poor?' Some time since the circumstance of a person having lived for some weeks upon workhouse diet was mentioned with pride in the House of Commons. Would this same man had fattened on it within the walls of a workhouse, shut out from the view of everything but the wretchedness of himself and fellow-sufferers. I am almost tempted to wish that the man who first hit upon this infernal scheme of shutting out the sight of our common earth from the view of the poor had been condemned to live in one of his own dungeons for life. One topic more, and I have done. There are about ten idiots in our workhouse. If I could fancy an aggravation of the miseries of incarcerated poverty, intense and tremendous, it would be this simple addition of idiotcy. Upon their companions falls the duty of attending them. In our house, at this present minute, if a man is dying, his wife cannot see him, if he be an inmate." 1011 "That the law which prohibited relief, where any visible property remained, should be abolished. That degrading condition should be withdrawn. No temporary occasion should force a British subject to part with the last shilling of his little capital, and descend to a state of wretchedness from which he could never recover, merely that he might be entitled to a casual relief." 1012
 Mr. Walter  said, that in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice it was his desire that the House should thoroughly understand that he had not himself sought the duty which he now undertook. Whatever might be his opinion of the character and consequences of the measure, to which he should call the attention of the House, on its first issuing from the original Board of Commissioners, and on its subsequent introduction into Parliament; and, however he might then have given it all the opposition in his power, yet, having done this, and the Bill having been passed into a law, he, of course, felt it his duty to bow to the decision of the majority which was against him, and therefore for a long time, studiously avoided any recurrence to the subject. At length, however, he was called from this state of acquiescence, by the complaints of his own constituents, in the first instance, and then by those of others through the country, who thought they could confide in him to attempt the removal of those mischiefs, and the alleviation of those hardships, which he had foreseen, and had foretold, would be the consequences of the Bill if it were carried into a law, and which consequences were then beginning to be felt. What he was now doing—though he did it on the maturest consideration—was really little more than obeying the calls which had been thus made upon him. He was conveying the sense of his poorer fellow-subjects, the people, to the people's House of Parliament—for such, he hoped that House would prove itself to be. But he was doing more than this; for those complaints had received such sanction from persons of higher rank, and more accurate means of observation — from the clergy he would say particularly, and from many eminent members of the magistracy—that they were not only the cries of suffering, but also the voice of reason and reflection. Upon these grounds, he called the attention of the House to them; and he entertained the more ardent hope of success, because there was nothing to oppose to these cries of Complaint, and these cool and rational observations of which he had spoken, but what he considered an ill-understood view of their own interests, taken by those who had to support the poor, and the stern
 988 989 990 991 992 l. s. s. s. s. s. d. d. s. 993 994 995 996 "Read, read,"
 Mr. Walter  replied, that he believed the letter came from a gentleman who was both a clergyman and magistrate—such certainly was his impression.
 Mr. Hume  had been anxious to speak after the hon. Member for Southwark, because it appeared to him that the hon. Member was mixing up with his speech matters entirely foreign to the subject, and likely to lead the House from the matter before them. If the hon. Member at a fitting time would bring before the House the subjects either of the operation of the Corn-laws on the industry of the country, or of the unequal manner in which taxation pressed on the poorer classes, he would find no man more anxious than he to support the propriety of reviewing the whole of these questions. But the impression which the hon. Member appeared desirous to convey was, that the new Poor-law had the same effect in bearing on the industry of the country which Corn-laws and unequal taxation had. It appeared to him that such was in no respect the case, and that the epithets which the hon. Member had used in designating the measure— epithets which it had been much better to have withheld—were altogether apart from the real merits of the case. He (Mr. Hume) had voted for that measure because he found that the poorer classes of the community—those who lived by their industry—were, in consequence of the abuses which had existed under the former working, rapidly sinking in the scale of society. The system of indiscriminate relief had worked great evil. He thought the hon. Gentleman and his hon. Friend had not done fairly in quoting the acts of cruelty that had taken place. It was notorious that acts of cruelty in the administration of the Poor-laws before this measure passed might have been selected from every week in the year. He repeated, then, that it was not fair to select evils now as evidence of the bad working of the Act when, before it passed
 1049 Beauclerk: 1050 d. 1051 The Times The Times 1052 ex officio
 Sir Robert Peel , before the discussion on the Poor-law Amendment Act was entered into, had a petition to present on the subject from the medical practitioners of Bucks, complaining of the state of medical treatment and practice under the Poor-law as at present administered. He wished to know from the noble Lord if he was prepared with any amendment to the Act with respect to medical treatment. Of course inquiry would go far to point out the nature of that remedy.
 Dr. Lefroy  claimed the indulgence of the House for a few moments. He should not have felt it necessary to do so, if the character of his hon. and learned Friend was as well known in this country, as it was in that from whence the calumny had emanated, and as fully appreciated by the Members of the House as by the profession to which he belonged. He rose merely for the purpose of making this statement, as a member of that profession to which they
 1057
 Mr. O'Connell  remarked, that the clause was already in operation in Ireland, as the assistant-barristers were precluded from having a seat in Parliament. He considered the clause of so much importance, that if the hon. Member for Southwark divided the House, he would go out with him. Persons in a judicial capacity ought to be excluded from having a seat in that House. If such persons acted erroneously in their offices, there was no other tribunal but Parliament to correct them. In that House, they were all aware that party spirit prevailed, and they ought to be most
 1063
 Mr. Thornley  said, that he should certainly oppose the clause, for its object was to extend the franchise to the freemen in a way that was never intended.
 Mr. Thornley  could not consider the clause in any other light, and he should therefore take the sense of the House upon its rejection.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not object to this motion on financial grounds, although he might be of opinion that a tax of 1 l., l.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  rose to give his cordial support to the measure, and would state one fact, which in his judgment ought to convince the House that the measure proposed was necessary. This fact occurred in the borough which he had the honour to represent. There were from forty to fifty persons capable of becoming freemen, but without the means of paying the tax of 1 l.;
 Mr. Forbes  would support the measure, because he thought that anything by which any class of voters could be protected from corruption, ought to be adopted. He disliked a system which he saw prevailing, of hon. Gentlemen who could not take away the right of electors trying to take away their characters; and he thought the House had done itself honour by resisting the attempt lately made to wrest from the electors of Stafford their fran-
 1104
 Mr. Phillip Howard  was very sorry that this measure did not meet with the approval of his Majesty's Government. The principle of rendering electors as independent as possible was a good one; and he thought that a seven years' apprenticeship was a sufficient guarantee for the judgment and propriety of those in whose favour that principle was, on the present occasion, sought to be enforced. He should be very sorry, if an indisposition was manifested by that House to assist the freemen, whom he considered the last remaining link between the poor man and the representatives of property merely. The gratitude consequent on the payment of the stamp by a candidate put the freemen in an unpleasant condition, and on an unfair footing with the other electors. The loss to the Exchequer would be very paltry, and would not, he trusted, stand in the way of what was expedient.
 Mr. H. Hinde  remarked, that there was a great difference between demanding the payment of 1 l. l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  really thought that the hon. Member's motion might be aptly designated two words for himself and one for the freemen. Why should they not all exercise their liberality? He had no objection that other hon. Members should do so, and he hoped he might be allowed to do the same. There was a very great difference between bribery and niggardliness.
 Mr. Aglionby  would, at the pleasure of the House either oppose the present motion, or oppose the Bill when brought in at the most convenient of its stages. The title of the Bill was an incorrect one; it ought to have been entitled an Act to relieve candidates from expending large sums of money in the corruption of freemen. It would extend the franchise, but
 1105
 Colonel Thompson  would in a few words lay the case before the House. Suppose he were again to stand for the borough which he now represented, and some twenty or thirty candidates for freedom said to him, "if you pay the stamp duty for us, we will vote for you; if you don't, Mr. A. the opposing candidate, will, and then we shall vote for him." Why, he should think that corruption; and therefore he should support the motion which prevented that corruption.
 Mr. Williams , in reply, explained, that had the labours of the Committee by the recommendation of which he brought in this Bill been terminated sufficiently early to admit of his having mentioned the matter when the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) brought forward his measure last year for the consolidation of the stamp duties, he would have done so.
 Captain Boldero  as he lived near the residence of his hon. Friend (Mt. Walter) in Berkshire, was enabled to state (and he felt the more bound to do so after the taunts which had been thrown out about the non-attendance of that hon. Gentle-
 1099 Confusion. Increased confusion. Laughter, "Name! Name." "No, No." "Name the disease." l. l., l. 1100
 Mr. Scarlett  denied that the nominal salaries attached to these really honorary offices could influence the votes of the parties holding them in that House.
 Major Beauclerk  was unwilling to trespass on the attention of the House, but he could not reconcile it with his public duty to omit the present opportunity of urging his Majesty's Government, with those who had preceded him, to enter upon this inquiry fully and fairly, and go into the whole bearings and operation of the Poor-law Amendment Act. He did not maintain that the old law was good in practice; it was quite the reverse, it was abominable, and Government deserved well of the country for having devised and introduced any practicable amendment. But whilst he was ready to adopt this Bill as far as related to its provisions for the prevention of idleness and profligacy, there were undoubtedly other parts of it harrowing to the feelings of humanity, and tending essentially to defeat the safe and efficacious working of the whole system. The principle of the old law was, that assistance should be given to the destitute—to those who were unable to work, or, being able to work, could not procure employment; poverty being regarded, not as a crime or a disgrace, but as a misfortune. He voted for the Committee on this principle, that he wished to see this Bill so amended as to allow assistance to be given where assistance was deserved or was absolutely necessary. He would vest that discretion in the Board of Guardians which they ought to have for discriminating characters, to give to the honest and industrious, but not to the idle and profligate. He was aware that many who called themselves political economists might differ from him, and maintain that the workhouse system promised to work out some great beneficial change in the character and condition of the labouring poor, which he should be most glad to see. But while human nature was human nature, poverty and improvidence would, he feared, still be found to prevail; and although they should punish idleness and profligacy, they never would be able to pass a law which would prevent young men from contracting improvident marriages, or preclude the possibility of a temporary suspension of employment, so that poverty and misery should not require assistance. He did not mean to go into individual cases
 1086
 Colonel Sibthorp : Notwithstanding the almost prescriptive right which the hon. Member for Salford had acquired, as to obtaining art adjournment of the House at a certain hour, he had on Friday night last moved the adjournment, even though the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, was so anxious that the debate should then terminate. He had insisted upon that adjournment, and he stated then what he now repeated—namely, that he considered the present motion to be one of vital importance, and though but a few evenings before, a debate had been adjourned for three successive nights, on the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill, still he conceived, that on a law affecting so great a portion of the population of this country, as the Poor-law Amendment Act, it was not too much to require the noble Lord to assent to the adjournment, in order that full and complete consideration should be given to this important subject. He had not persisted in that course having the vanity, to think that anything which fell from him would have the effect of changing or influencing a single vote; but as he knew that several hon. Gentlemen, well acquainted with the subject, were prepared to address the House upon it, and to enter into a full discussion of its merits, he was fully borne out and warranted in requiring that they should have an opportunity of doing so. He had listened with great attention to the observations which had fallen from his hon. Friend who had just sat down, and he assured him, that for him he entertained the highest possible respect, though he differed from him on the present occasion. What had been his hon. Friend's statements with regard to this Bill? Why, in the first place, he remarked, that the statements which had
 1070 1071 l. l. 1072 l. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. 1073 s., s. d.; s. s.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that if he thought the law-officers of the Crown were sincere, he would not press his motion. He did not, however, think so—and, consequently, he must persevere. It was said, that the recorders were not highly paid. Why, had not the recorder of London 2,500 l. l. 1064
 Mr. Harvey  had a clause to propose, which was of so much importance, that he must beg the attention of the House to it. He must say, that he never remembered a Bill of such importance as the present, passing through all its stages with so little observation. It had excited scarcely any attention whatever, or rather, it had gone through its different stages amidst a confusion, which rendered it impossible that even the most strained attention could ascertain what any one hon. Gentleman who addressed the House on the subject, was speaking about, or what the question was which they were required to decide. He thought the proposition which he had to make, was one which would be received by the House, but more particularly by
 1062
 Mr. Edward Buller  having derived considerable information respecting the operation of the Poor-law Bill from persons on whose authority he could rely, felt it his duty, considering the importance of the subject, to relate some of the facts which had come to his knowledge to the House, by way of illustrating how far the Bill had been found beneficial to the labouring classes in the places of which he should speak. The first place to which he wished to direct attention, was Stoke-upon-Trent, the population of which was 45,000, who were chiefly engaged in the earthenware manufacture. The parochial affairs had been ill-conducted for years; so bad had the state of things become, that the parochial officers continued to hold their situations after they had been guilty of peculation to a large amount. The parish was governed under Sturges Bourne's Act, and had a select vestry. All the officers, as they were under that Act, were appointed at a general meeting
 1083 l., l.; l. 1084 1085
 Mr. Grote  was in favour of the clause, and thought, that those who held judicial offices, should be obliged to devote their whole time to the business of those offices. He was an advocate for local Courts.
 Mr. Robinson  was at a loss to comprehend how it was that his hon. Friend, the
 1077 1078 l.; l; 1.; l.; l. l., 1079 The Times 1080 1081 1082
 Mr. George F. Young  had joined with the hon. Member for Berkshire in giving his conscientious and continued opposition to the new Poor-law Act when it was before
 1097 l. l.;
 The Speaker  begged hon. Members to preserve order, and allow the hon. Member to be heard.
 Mr. Hardy : The noble Lord opposite made no allusion in the course of his speech to the operation of the bastardy clauses; and as no instructions had been issued with regard to them by the Commissioners, he was afraid that the noble Lord's proposition would exclude the operation of those clauses from the consideration of the Committee. He therefore wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, proposed to allow an inquiry to be gone into with regard to the manner in which those clauses had operated? If such was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman, he would vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Government; but if it was meant to prevent any consideration of the operation of those clauses, he should feel bound to vote for the original motion.
 Mr. Hardy  assured the House he would not detain it two minutes, but having previously to the present discussion put a question to the noble Lord opposite, he was anxious to put the same question again to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and his vote on the question before the House, would depend on the answer he might receive. The noble Lord proposed that an inquiry should be entered into with respect to the regulations promulgated by the Poor-law Commissioners; but something, more than that was, he thought, necessary, and something more seemed also to have been indicated by the right hon. Gentleman himself. [Cries of  "Divide." "Oh! Oh!"
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to avail himself of the present opportunity of expressing art opinion on this question, because he believed that the interests of the labouring classes were deeply involved in it; and the expression of an opinion of his on the subject might have some weight with those classes, as regarded whom he was willing to take his full share of any odium that might fall on him for advocating the Bill. He was one of the early supporters of the measure; and he begged to assure the hon. Member for Southwark that he voted for it with a perfect knowledge of what he was doing. He adhered to the principle then laid down; and had heard no argument or evidence adduced in this House or elsewhere, which was calculated to make him now shrink from the principle which
 1091 1092 1093
 Mr. Walter  said, that it appeared to him that the House had reason to complain that his Majesty's Ministers had not sooner intimated their intention of giving up the points in difference between himself and the noble Lord. If the noble Lord on a former night, or if the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the present occasion, had given him an earlier intimation that they were ready to waive the points on which they had formerly insisted, but which they had now explicitly abandoned, they would have saved the House the trouble of much of the recent discussion. He had only a word to say on two or three matters which had arisen in the course of the debate, before he consented to the general wish of the House by withdrawing his motion. The noble Secretary for the Home Department, in the speech which he delivered on a former evening, had complained that he had not given to the Poor-law Commissioners any information respecting the allegations which he intended to prefer against them but the noble Secretary had misstated his reasons for withholding from them that information. He had told the Commissioners that his business was with that House, and not with them, and that they might disfigure the facts which he communicated to them, as he knew them to have disfigured facts communicated to them from other quarters. But even if he had been willing to give them the information they required, it was not in his power to have given it, inasmuch as he was not himself in possession of all his facts until the morning of the very day on which he made his motion. The noble Lord had also twitted him with his non-attendance at the Board of Guardians for the Wokingham Union. He would tell the House that he was not aware till the noble Lord had informed him of the circumstance that he had attended so often as ten times the meetings of that board. He wished hon. Gentlemen to recollect that from the end of the month of January to the commencement of the
 1101 l. l. s. d. 1102
 Mr. Brotherton  was anxious to offer a few observations on the question before the House. He trusted that they would enter upon the discussion free from any party spirit, and with a desire to ascertain what they could adopt which would be best for the country, and be compatible with a just consideration for the condition of the working classes. When this measure was originally before the House he had voted against many of its provisions. He considered the powers given to the Commissioners far too extensive, and a violation of the power of local self-government. In the borough which he represented a meeting had lately been held, at which resolutions were passed condemnatory of many parts of this Act, and particularly of the extensive and arbitrary powers conferred on the Commissioners. Having read some extracts from the resolutions referred to, the hon. Member proceeded to say that he thought that a discretionary power should be left in the hands of the guardians as to the administration of relief in particular cases. The powers of the Commissioners ought
 1066 1067
 Mr. Cripps  congratulated the hon. Member for Berkshire, on having brought this question to an issue, and said he was exceedingly glad that the noble Lord had in a great measure acquiesced in the view of that hon. Member, by granting a Committee of Inquiry, in order to see what the effect of the present Bill had been. With regard to the numerous documents which had been read by the hon. Member for Berkshire, he did not mean to say they were incorrect, but that he distrusted them, as detailing cases into which full investigation had not been made, and which, in many instances, had been collected from the poor themselves. He was exceedingly glad that they were to have a Committee upon the subject, in order that the public might be furnished with a more correct and satisfactory account of
 1068 l. l., 1069
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  rose in the discharge of an exceedingly irksome, but which he felt an incumbant duty upon him, to call the attention of the House to a publication in the  Morning Chronicle "Some striking instances of Irish modesty are exhibited in the division on Sir William Molesworth's proposition for abolishing the property qualification. Mr. Shaw and Dr. Lefroy, who, as representatives of the University are themselves specially exempt from the operation of the existing absurd law; and Mr. Sergeant Jackson, who was a bankrupt, uncertificated until within three weeks of his return for Bandon, all voted against the hon. Baronet's motion &c." 1054 in loco parentis 1055 l., 1056
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  had put himself entirely in the hands of the House, as he did not think himself justified in passing over so false and calumnious a charge. He must be allowed to say still, that he felt it to be his duty to give the newspaper, or rather its informant, an opportunity of justifying the statement by commencing legal proceedings against it.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  had come down to the House that evening fully prepared to support the motion of his hon. Friend and Colleague, and though before a Committee of free inquiry some of the statements might be found exaggerated, he felt sure that by nothing but a full and fair inquiry would the country be satisfied. He had certainly thought the terms of the noble Lord's amendment were not sufficient to warrant the expectation that it would be sufficiently so, but after the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had in such strong terms stated the views of Government as to what extent that amendment would allow of, it appeared to him to go as far as possible, and as was consistent with maintaining the leading principles of the measure. His hon. Friend, the Member for Berkshire, had done himself great credit in bringing the subject under the consideration of the House, and he thought he might congratulate him on the turn the debate had taken, and the explicit declaration of the Chancellor, from which he would perceive that he had forced Government into the concession he sought. He hoped, that under all the circumstances of the case, he would desist from pressing his motion, and would adopt the advice of the right hon. Members for Tamworth and Cocker-mouth, more particularly as he would have the opportunity of bringing the points he had advanced under the consideration of the Committee.
 Mr. Alston  hoped the hon. Member for Berkshire (who was about to leave his place) would give him his attention for a few moments, while he stated to him the results which had been effected by the New Poor-law Amendment Act in the county of Hertford. Since the Act had come into operation, he had taken an active part in the proceedings under it, and whether he looked to the comfort, the contentment and the character of the poor in all relations, father, mother, and children, he was confident that the Poor-law to them had been the source of the greatest improvement that ever benefitted the lower classes of the community. The county of Hertford was one which would well show the result of the operation of the measure, for its population was amongst the most dense of the kingdom. He had endeavoured within the last few days, and since the present motion was
 1074 l. l. s. d., l. l. l. l, 1075 1076
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  should not have occupied the attention of the House but for the question which had been put to him by the right hon. Baronet, and on the answer he should give he thought the votes of many hon. Gentlemen would depend. He would further say, that if his reply should induce hon. Gentlemen to feel, that consistently with their principles, they would support the measure, if he should be able to satisfy the Mover himself of the original motion that he could consistently consent to withdraw his motion, hon. Gentlemen would see that he should obtain an object of considerable importance, by the disposal of this question by an unanimous, rather than by a qualified, expression of opinion. He should be ready on the part of his noble Friend, feeling the immense importance of an unanimous opinion, to adopt the suggestions thrown out, if he did not feel that, for the purpose of purchasing that unanimity, he was endangering the principle itself, if not within the House, most assuredly outside its walls. If the House were to show itself ready to inquire not only into the details but into the principle, it would be thought out of the House that there existed a disposition to retract as regarded the principle, that they doubted the policy of it, and that they were going into an inquiry which, more or less, would have a tendency to the retracing of their steps, and the adoption of the old system. He considered that danger to be much lessened by the course which they proposed to take. His noble Friend, when he originally introduced the measure, took his stand with perfect reliance on its justice, its policy, and expediency. He was supported then, as he had been on the present occasion, by the hon. Member for Middlesex, by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, and by the right hon. Baronet who sat below him, as well as by the hon. and learned Member for Bath, Gentlemen whom he named because they all represented various classes, and the
 1095 1096
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he was not at all aware, until the circumstance had been brought forward, that any paragraph of the kind alluded to, had been inserted in any paper. He concurred entirely in the condemnation that had been given to such proceedings. He thought that personal attacks upon private character, for the purpose of influencing politics, were unmanly and ungenerous—because the party attacked must either labour under the charges made against him, or do that which might be extremely hurtful to his feelings, and come forward for the purpose of vindicating his character. The attack that had been made on the learned Gentleman opposite, throwing
 1058
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that as the hon. Member seemed to fancy that the time of the House would have been saved had the same intimation been made to the House by Ministers on Friday night as had been made to them just now, he must only recall to the minds of hon. Members the fact that his noble Friend had on Friday evening made the very same declaration which he had himself made that evening.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted the House would allow him to answer the question put by the hon. Gentleman. He had no hesitation in saying that he should consider the inquiry about to be instituted incomplete if the operation of the bastardy clauses were excluded from it. He begged to add, that he anticipated in that branch of the inquiry the same result as in every branch.
 Mr. Wakley  hoped that the House would permit him to urge the importance of making one part of the subject with respect to which he had given notice, an important part of the inquiry, namely, the medical branch of the subject. If an inquiry took place it was a matter of importance that it should be a free and full inquiry, and pursued without any feelings of excitement. He hoped that the hon. Member for Berkshire would withdraw his motion, as he thought that it was of great importance that the House should be unanimous. The hon. Gentleman had been requested by many hon. Members who were favourable to the Bill to withdraw his motion, and now he (Mr. Wakley), who was as hostile to the Bill as the hon. Member himself, requested him to do so. If the inquiry as proposed by the noble Lord should prove that the working of the Bill was bad, he trusted that the hon. Member would at once move for the repeal of it. In conclusion he trusted that hon. Gentlemen would go into the inquiry with unprejudiced minds, and that the only object that they would have in view would be to elicit the truth.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  then moved a clause, to the effect that every person voting at the election of town-councillors, or aldermen, should do so by delivering personally, at the meeting, to the mayor or chairman, a voting paper, containing the name and surname of the person for whom he votes, such paper, when read, to be? delivered by the mayor to the town-clerk, and that every election of aldermen, made before the passing of the Act, should be valid, by whatever form made.
 Sir James Graham , having taken an anxious part in the original discussions on this measure, were it ten times more unpopular than he believed it to be, should be ashamed of himself, if, on the present occasion, he shrunk from taking his full share of any odium that might attach to its supporters. He had stated his opinion as to the general policy and the particular enactments of the Bill, and the result of his experience was, that he not only approved of the general policy, but he considered the particular enactments indispensable. He did not think this a fit opportunity for discussing the policy of the Bill. The question before the House lay in the narrowest compass, and he was ready to adopt the opinions of his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel), who observed, that there were only two questions before the House: one was, should there be an inquiry? and the other was, what should the nature of that inquiry be? As to the first question, whether there should be an inquiry, there was hardly a difference of opinion throughout the House. He would say that, in the abstract, the terms of the reference should be as wide as possible, saving the principle; but if they carried the motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire, seconded by the hon. Member for Oldham, a moral feeling would get abroad which would render it impossible to continue to work the measure as heretofore. The inquiry as proposed by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, appeared to him to be perfectly satisfactory. An idea prevailed in the county he represented, that no good would result from an extension of the measure to his district. He differed from his constituents in that respect, and he was convinced that by an inquiry into the subject—but it must be a full inquiry—he was convinced, he said, that if they went into an investigation of the peculiar circumstances of his county, his constituents would be satisfied that the measure would be found most salutary there, as well as in other places. Looking, however, to the terms of the reference, he should be of opinion that, if they abided by them strictly, the peculiar circumstances of his district would scarcely come within the limits of
 1094
 The Attorney-General  brought up a clause to this effect:—"That a person entitled to be admitted to the freedom of a borough, at the time of the passing of the Act, shall be entitled to be admitted on the same conditions as any person who shall have acquired his title after the passing of the Act."
 The Attorney-General  hoped that, before proceeding with the adjourned debate, the House would allow the third reading of the Municipal Corporations Act Amendment Bill to take place. It was of the greatest importance that there should be no further delay in the passing of this Bill, which was not at all a party measure. He begged to move the third reading of the Bill.
 The Attorney-General  said, if he bad been aware that his motion would have led to a protracted discussion of this kind, he should not have ventured to postpone the adjourned debate on the Poor-law-Amendment Act. He was willing to admit that the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Southwark, was an important one—so important, indeed, that he should, wish to see it made the subject of a separate Bill. It went, however, beyond the scope of the present measure, which was confined to England, while the hon. Gentleman intended his clause to extend to Ireland. He was not prepared to say that recorders should be excluded from seats in that House, nor could he think that there was any analogy between their case, and that of the judges. The recorders were seldom occupied in the exercise of their judicial functions more than four days in the year; and, therefore, as their duties in no way interfered with their discharging the duties of Members of that House, he must give the proposition of the hon. Member for Southwark his decided opposition.
 The Attorney-General  said, the object of the clause was, not to extend the franchise, but to prevent litigation and expense in prosecuting appeals.
 Sir R. Peel  thought the question really at issue lay within the narrowest limits; and he could state what his opinions were in five minutes much more satisfactorily to himself than if he spent two hours speaking on the subject. He considered the whole question to turn on this—what will be the impression of the public mind from the course they were about to adopt? The terms of one motion might differ very little from those of the other, the inquiry they might institute might differ very little from another inquiry, but the real question at issue was—what construction the public, those who had to administer the law, those to whom the law was to be administered—what construction they would put on the vote the House was about to come to and on the intentions that vote would manifest? If they intended to repeal the Poor-law Amendment Bill, if they intended to prejudice the operation of that measure, their course was perfectly clear; if, on the other hand, they intended to maintain it, to see that a great experiment had a fair trial, and give the moral aid of their support to those who had to administer very unpopular functions, then he said they ought to be exceedingly cautious that they did not create in the public mind perhaps an erroneous impression, that they had doubts on the subject, and wished to shrink from the application of the measure on the most plausible grounds imaginable. He apprehended the great object of the change made in the Poor-law was not to
 1089 l. l. 1090
 The Solicitor-General  opposed the clause, and said that, as a remuneration of recorders did not amount to more than perhaps 20 l.
 Sir S. Whalley  contended that the Poor-law Amendment Act had effected great improvements in the administration of the law, and tended greatly to improve the moral condition of the poor. At the same time he wished that inquiry should take place, in order to ascertain whether the principles of the Bill might not be somewhat modified in their operation.
 Sir Stratford Canning  did not intend to enter at all into the details of this question. He was not in Parliament at the time it was carried through the House; but, although he could not appeal to his own experience, he was unwilling to believe that what had been stated by the hon. Member for Southwark could rest upon any solid foundation. Although it had been said that the poor had no friends, and, in one sense, no representatives in that House, he maintained that their interests were always advocated and most feelingly responded to. This was not the time for discussing the merits of the Poor-law Amendment
 1087 1088
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was absurd to lay down one rule for all railways. He felt it to be his duty to oppose both the original motion and the amendment. In his opinion it was too late, after the number of railways that had been completed, or the works of which were far advanced, to attempt to enforce such a regulation as the hon. Gentleman contemplated.
 Mr. Gillon  did not think the proposal too late. He considered that the legislature were bound to interfere. These speculations, which were rising up so rapidly, were not for the public good, but solely for the benefit of the parties engaged in them.
 Sir G. Strickland  felt bound to oppose both the motion and the amendment. He was opposed to any royal commission having the power of riding over private speculations. After this point had been investigated by the committee, it was decided that no commission could be appointed, or one which could be in any way like that contemplated by the amendment. He thought that the original motion did not stand upon any better ground than the amendment.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  could not agree to either of the propositions then before the House. With regard to the amendment, he was quite surprised to find it
 1162
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether any advances had recently been made by the Exchequer Bill Commissioners. If there had, it was, in his opinion, only adding to the mischief that had been already done, by encouraging speculations that were ruinous to parties.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that except in cases where they had been already engaged by contract, he doubted that any other engagements had been entered into. In the early part of this Session he had intimated that parties concerned in railways ought not to rely on any such advances. He wished to leave such speculations to the private capital of the parties interested in them.
 Mr. Hawes  expected, that the hon. Gentleman would have afforded the House some information as to whether this measure proposed any alteration in (he present system of prison discipline. There was another point of importance, on which information was desirable, namely, with respect to the cost of maintaining prisoners. In respect to this expenditure, sometimes it was high and sometimes low, and he hoped that some attempt would be made to effect an uniformity of system. There was another very important subject, namely, the proper treatment of juvenile offenders. There were no less than 3,000 children passed through the gaols of the metropolis in a very short period of time, and he had no doubt they came out worse than they went in. He felt bound to say, without meaning to cast an imputation on any particular individual, that the office of Secretary of State for the Home Department was an office that did very little good. There was far less attention paid by that department to the criminal jurisprudence of the country than ought to be expected from an office so constituted and so well paid. Now, he would refer to the prison of Newgate, which was disgraceful. There had been v some improvement in the shape of building additional cells, but with that exception the recommendation of the Commissioners seemed to be as far as ever from being carried into effect. He had introduced the subject unexpectedly. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman was not prepared to give any information on those points, and if that was the case he would have no objection to wait for the second reading of the Bill, when he would be prepared to enter into the entire subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in the absence of his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, wished to say a few words in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. He quite
 1174 1175
 Alderman Wood  said, that the hon. Member for Lambeth seemed to have a particular taste for finding fault with the prison of Newgate. He did not know whether the hon. Member had been there since he became a Member of that House. At present every effort was making to enlarge that prison, and afford an increase of accommodation, and nothing had been left undone by the Court of Aldermen to bring that prison within the plan of the Secretary of State, so far as the separation and accommodation of untried prisoners. For this purpose several new cells had been made. The expenditure in this respect had been greatly increased since Middlesex, Kent, Surrey, and Essex had been added by the new Criminal Court Act. As to juvenile offenders, the increase of boys in the prison of Newgate was very great. Most of the children were sent in by their parents. They were generally committed for stealing some trifling matter from their father or grandfather, or some one else, and sent to Newgate. He thought it would be a great improvement to have a summary jurisdiction and to punish children in a summary way, and not let them remain in prison. This jurisdiction might be exercised by the Government or some other proper authority. He had heard much of the benefit of educating children; but many children who were in prison knew how to read and write, and many of them for new offences were sent to gaol a second time. They might continue to keep up this Penitentiary. Sometimes it was filled and some times empty. "When it was filled disease broke out there. Yet there was no complaint of the Penitentiary—all the blame was reserved for Newgate, and he believed for no other reason than because that prison was under the government of a set of magistrates who were not popular in that House. He must condemn as one of the sources of the evil, the system of allowing convicts to remain in the prison of New-gate for a long time under sentence of death until their convictions were reported to the King in Council. There were prisoners at present who had been capitally convicted three sessions ago, and who
 1176
 Mr. Fox Maule  rose to repudiate the charges that had been urged against the department to which he belonged. With respect to secondary punishments and juvenile offenders, the first clause of the Bill he proposed to introduce, enacted that the Secretary of State for the Home Department should have the power to order the removal of convicts from New gate to the Penitentiary, with the view of adopting secondary punishments. The Secretary for the Home Department had given the utmost attention to the reduction of the expense of this establishment, and in the estimates for the present year there would be found a reduction of 2,000 l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the motion. He believed that such a measure was necessary, and when it came before the House, he would give it every consideration in his power. When the Bill of 1825 was brought forward he was not in Parliament, but he believed that it was brought forward with the concurrence of the ship owners, who thought that it would confer a particular benefit on themselves. He believed, however, that they entertained a different opinion now. It was right, however, that all parties interested in the question, should have full time to consider the plan proposed. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Member would give full time for the consideration of the measure; and, so far as he (Mr. Poulett Thomson) was concerned, he would give to the arguments of all parties interested, both for and against the measure, the fullest attention in his power.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that he proposed in the first instance to introduce the Bill and have it circulated generally through the country, so as to enable
 1173
 Mr. George F. Young , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to mortgages on ships, as he understood his motion would not be opposed, felt disposed to limit himself to a brief exposition of the evils of the present system and of the remedy which he proposed to apply. Up to the year 1825, the state of the law as to the security of money advanced on mortgages of ships was very defective. In that year Mr. Hockessin (whose great abilities he willingly acknowledged, however he might differ from some of his views) brought forward a series of measures affecting the commerce of the country, and the maritime commerce more especially. He proposed a Bill for affording greater facilities in raising- money on ships, and he thought that he was thus affording an advantage to ship owners. Now, so far from this measure having been found beneficial, it was the source of great evil and of very great disadvantage. The operation of the Bill was this, that it enabled persons without capital to become owners of ships, which ships they afterwards mortgaged, and by the facility of obtaining credit thus afforded, persons without capital were enabled to enter into the wildest speculations, to an extent injurious to the security of the capital of the prudent man engaged in the maritime commerce of the country. The ship owners, and those for whose benefit this measure had been intended, complained of it as a source of very great evil. The system that at present prevailed was productive of frauds of a very extensive description on those who, as tradesmen, were connected with the building and
 1172 bona fide
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that the sole object of the present Bill would be to get the money from the public by a vote of the House, instead of from other sources; but the present measure did not propose to interfere with the mode of payment of the officers of the Mint, which would remain unaltered. But with respect to the inquiry before the Committee, it would of course be competent for them to inquire into every part of the entire system.
 Mr. Labouchere  stated, that in pursuance of the notice which he had given, he had to CHLL Inattention of the House to that department over which he had the honour to me side. Although the subject, or the d tail connected with it, might not appear to be very interesting, yet both were of considerable importance. He trusted, therefore, that the House would favour him with is attention for a short spare of time. It would not be necessary to detain hon. Members for a very long time, because
 1163 l. l. s. s. d. s. d. l. 1164 l. l. l. l. l. 1165 l. l. l. l., 1166 1167 1168
 Mr. Hume  rose to second the motion, and was glad that the subject had been brought forward so early in the present Session. During last Session he (Mr. Hume) had paid great attention to this matter, and, had not the occupation of his time by other business prevented him, it was his intention to move for a Committee of Inquiry. He was, however, of opinion that such inquiries were always much more usefully conducted when suffered to re-
 1169
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was unnecessary to say, that the present measure had the sanction of the Government. He was exceedingly gratified that this motion had been brought forward, although in the present very thin state of the House it might not receive that attention to which from its importance it was entitled. The subject which had been introduced by his right hon. Friend was one to which for a long time he had paid particular attention. His right hon. Friend had been anxious to bring forward the subject last Session, but had been induced not to take that step, because it was thought that they could come to the examination of the whole subject much more advantageously, and with fuller information, in the present Session. It was most material to apply the most improved, safe, and economical principles to the management of all public departments. The present system under which the Mint was conducted, was a most complicated and unsatisfactory system. It was a complicated, difficult, operas, and unintelligible system. Indeed, he might say, that the business of the Mint was conducted, in an unconstitutional mode. They were desirous to substitute the simple mode of a vote of Parliament of the necessary sums, and the introduction into the management of the Mint of the same principles as were applied to the management of all the other public establishments connected with the Government. He wished it to be understood with respect to the inquiry before the Committee, that it was
 1171
 Mr. Clay  wished to ask the right hon.
 1170
 Sir W. Follett  had a question to put to his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, arising out of a petition which he then held in his hand. The petitioner was the keeper of the Sheriff's Gaol, in the city of Exeter. If his hon. and learned Friend's
 1177
 The Attorney-General  said, that although there was no such clause at present in the Bill, it was only fair that a clause should be introduced into it giving compensation to parties who would be deprived of emoluments under its operation. He had found it, however, very difficult to draw the line between the cases in which compensation ought to be granted, and those in which it ought not. If a general compensation clause was introduced, every sheriff's officer who now obtained a living by placing his claws upon unhappy debtors would claim compensation for the loss which he sustained by the destruction of his occupation; at the same time, individuals in the situation of the Marshal of the King's Bench and of the Warden of the Fleet, ought to receive compensation. He should be glad of the assistance of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Exeter, to draw the line, which all must allow to be necessary. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved the Order of the Day for the Committee on this Bill.
 Mr. M. Philips  had, on a former occasion, applied to his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, to postpone the second reading of this Bill; but he had been unsuccessful. He now, at this stage of the Bill, repeated his application, in order that the trading part of the community might have an opportunity, which they had not yet had, to consider the Bill.
 The Attorney-General  replied, that the Bill was substantially the same as that which had been introduced three Sessions ago, and successively in each Session since then. The Bill had now been three years before Parliament; and doubtless, if, in the present year, there existed any objection to it on the part of the Chamber of Commerce of Manchester, the hon. Member who spoke last must have heard of such objection. The Bill had been very generally circulated during the period that had elapsed since its first introduction, and in the present year there had been no petitions against it. He hoped that it
 1178
 Mr. Richards : I am sorry, in the discharge of my duty as a Member of this House, to be obliged to oppose the further progress of this Bill. The learned Attorney-General, doubtless, from a sense of duty, and not from any desire to obtain a bad popularity, has thought fit to bring forward a Bill similar to the Bill of 1835, for extending the remedies of creditors against the property of debtors, and for abolishing imprisonment for debt, except in certain cases of fraud. The present Bill does not propose to create the same immense amount of Ministerial patronage as the former Bill, nor does it go to erect, as the former Bill did, an irresponsible inquisition in every district of the kingdom. But, under the pretence of improving the law of debtor and creditor, and from those feelings of mistaken but benevolent kindness, and unbounded philanthropy for which he is conspicuous, the learned Attorney-General will by this Bill, if it pass into a law, inflict the most serious injuries both on creditors and debtors. The House will see that the question at issue is not whether arrest and imprisonment for debt, or for offences of any kind, be, abstractedly considered, an evil. I admit, that punishment of any kind or in any degree abstracted from all consideration of its object, is an evil. It is an evil in the case of a person convicted of forgery, to tear away the offender from his family and friends, to deprive him of liberty, and to carry him, at a great expense, 10,000 miles distant to another country. It is an evil to deprive a felon convicted of murder of his life. These are evils; but you consent to inflict them for the sake of preventing evils immeasurably greater—viz., those that would arise from insecurity of person and property. You inflict the punishments I have named in order to prevent forgery and murder. But it is alleged, that the power of arrest and imprisonment for debt is sometimes abused; and that persons have, in some instances, been arrested and imprisoned for fictitious debts. Now, I am quite ready to make any such arrest and imprisonment highly penal. But I contend, that an occasional abuse of the power of arrest and imprisonment is no valid reason for the abolition of this power. The real question before the House is this —not whether arrest and imprisonment
 1179 1180 1181 1182 1183 fidus Achates
 Mr. Jervis  considered that this amendment would indirectly sanction, the con-
 * 1184
 The Solicitor-General  said, it appeared to him absurd that they should introduce into a Bill abolishing imprisonment for debt, any provision which might have the effect of abolishing the privilege of Parliament.
 The Attorney-General  observed, that the law, as it at present stood, required a property qualification for Members of Parliament, and guaranteed to them freedom from arrest. If the hon. Member disapproved of this part of the law, he might introduce a measure, having direct reference to it, but the object of the amendment was to assimilate the Bill as much as possible to the existing law.
 Mr. Richards  maintained, that so far from allowing Members of Parliament to plead privilege for non-payment of their debts, they should, of all others, be most amenable to the law of the land in that respect.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  opposed the amendment. If the object were merely to preserve the privilege of Parliament, the words proposed to be inserted were unnecessary, and might be dangerous. They would, he contended, raise a collateral argument in many cases against privilege of Parliament.
 The Attorney-General  said, the question was assuming privilege of Parliament to continue, whether or not the words were necessary. If they were not introduced, the person of a Member would be subject under the provisions of the clause to a  capias ad satisfaciendum.
 Viscount Sandon  was not inclined to push privilege of Parliament as far as the Attorney-General. Privilege of Parliament should not apply where fraud or crime had been committed, and the provisions of the clause contemplated such cases exclusively. It had been said, that the power of arrest might be used for political purposes, on the eve, for example, of an important division. But a series of steps had to be taken, which must necessarily occupy some time, before a Member
 1185
 Mr. Tooke  thought it would be unworthy of Members to avail themselves of the protection of the amendment proposed by the Attorney-General, for the purpose of cheating their creditors. The power could only apply where fraud was intended, the debtor having refused to deliver his schedule, and answer the questions put by the Commissioners.
 The Solicitor-General  hoped the hon. and learned Member for Chester would not persevere in his opposition, and endeavour by a side wind to effect a most material alteration in the law of the land with respect to privilege of Parliament.
 Mr. Jervis  objected to qualification and to privilege of Parliament altogether, and must therefore persist in his opposition.
 Mr. M. Philips  thought the hon. and learned Member for Chester had taken the common sense and just view of this question, and he hoped, if he were unsuccessful on the present occasion, he would not be deterred from bringing in a Bill to abolish privilege of Parliament altogether.
 Mr. Aglionby  did not think the amendment would extend privilege of Parliament further than it existed at present, but, objecting as he did, to its principle, he should vote with the hon. Member for Chester.
 Mr. Fresh field  understood the leading object of this Bill; was, to give the utmost facilities for following the property of debtors; and the person of Members of Parliament not being subject to arrest, why should their property not be made equally chargeable with that of every other class of his Majesty's subjects?
 Mr. Wallace  seconded the motion. He could assure the House, that after a most anxious inquiry into the laws, it WAS now proposed to consolidate, he was convinced that this was one of the most beneficial measures that had been brought before the house for a long series of years. The laws upon this subject amounted in number to 160 or 164, he could not say which, us they were in such a state of confusion, as to render it almost impossible to determine which had been repealed, and which had
 1188
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  hoped, that after the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, his hon. Friend would not press this motion. The right hon. Gentleman admitted that a case had been made out, and promised to take the subject into his most serious consideration between this time and the period of the financial statement. Under these circumstances, he was convinced that his hon. Friend would best consult the interest of the parties whom he represented by not pressing this question. He was as warm an advocate of the reduction of this duty as his hon. Friend; and when he entreated him to withdraw his motion, he did so, entertaining a confident expectation that, upon consideration of the case, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would feel called upon to propose either the total repeal of this duty, or a very large reduction.
 The Lord Advocate  was always unwilling to oppose any motion for returns made to this House, and particularly so when it came from his hon. Friend, the Member for Greenock; he regretted that he had not had an earlier opportunity of making some statement on the notice which had been given by his hon. Friend, who appeared to have proceeded on some very erroneous impressions, when he desired the judges of the Court of Session to assign the reasons which had induced them, under an Act of sederunt, to tax the inhabitants of the counties of Scotland, implying that this taxation had been unequal and arbitrary. They were also required to state the statutes under which they had acted, and their reason for doing so. The judges of the Court of Session, in regulating the fees of sheriff clerks, had acted entirely under the provisions of the 6th Geo. 4th, cap. 23, which required them to revive an Act of sederunt which had been passed in
 1204 1205 1206
 Mr. Wallace  consented to withdraw his motion, and the amendment moved by the Lord Advocate was agreed to.
 Mr. Fox Maule  was not disposed to accede to the hon. Gentleman's motion. He should have no objection to the renewal of the Committee, if the hon. Gentleman proposed to extend its labours to Ireland and Scotland. Upon the single branch of the inquiry to which their labours had been hitherto directed (he alluded to the turnpike trusts in England) they had already completed their report. He had no objection to the hon. Gentleman bringing forward the measure upon this subject to which he had alluded, and should be happy to give to it his most attentive consideration; but he did not at the same time think that there was any necessity for reappointing the Committee. With reference to turnpike trusts generally, he would observe, that the necessity for consolidation, strict economy of outlay, publicity of the accounts, and abolition of useless offices, was becoming every day more strikingly apparent.
 Mr. Robinson  would not divide the House. The strength of his case had been admitted, and he considered that what fell from the Chancellor of the Exchequer was equivalent to saying that he would bestow upon the subject his favourable consideration.
 Mr. Robinson , in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose to present a petition for the repeal of the duty on marine assurances, from merchants, ship owners, underwriters, and insurance agents of London. He had, he said, also to submit a resolution upon this subject. The petition, coming, as it did, from the intelligence, respectability, and wealth of the city of London, connected with the trade, commerce, and navigation of the country, supported also by petitions from England, Ireland, and Scotland, and from all the large trading and manufacturing towns of the kingdom, he was certain would have great weight with the House. In bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, for the gradual diminution of stamp duties upon marine policies, he had, he considered, a right to advert to the petitions presented last year upon that subject. To prove the impolicy of this tax, the discouragement it inflicted upon British insurances, and how much it tended to promote successful foreign competition, he observed that in 1810 the amount of imports and exports was 80,707,823 l., l.; l., l. l. l. l. 1190 /., l. /., l. /.; l. 1191 1192
 Mr. Labouchere  rose to ask the leave of the House for the introduction of several Bills, to consolidate the laws relating to the Post office. Those laws were now scattered over the Statute Book. There were 141 Acts, or parts of Acts, relating to the Post-office—they were so numerous, and so scattered, as to lead to great inconvenience to the public, as well as to the department which they regulated. He thought, and had long felt, that it was extremely desirable that those Acts should be consolidated, and so arranged as to be easily understood, and of easy access. He felt it his duty to the authorities of the Post-office, and more particularly to that very intelligent and valuable officer of the establishment, Mr. Peacock, its solicitor, to say, that when the Commissioners turned their attention to this subject, they found that the Post-office authorities had already given it so much consideration, that little more remained to be done than to submit these Bills to the House. The Government had long felt the necessity for such a consolidation of the laws, and he believed the reason of the delay had been a fear, on their part, that as the Bills must comprise every point relating to the management of the Post-office, they would lead to much discussion, and would, therefore, interfere with the progress of more important Bills. He had felt so strongly the force of that objection, that, notwithstanding his extreme desire for a consolidation of those laws, he should not have felt himself justified in introducing the Bills, had he not communicated with those gentlemen who usually took part in the discussions relative to the Post-office, and had their assurance that they would consider them as Bills merely for consolidating the laws, and as not interfering with the other matters already before the House relative to the Post-office. The Bills which he proposed were four in number. The
 1187
 Mr. Hume  thought it was of no use to pass laws, unless there was an efficient executive to carry them into effect. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, last year, had introduced a Bill for the purpose of altering the executive of the Post-office; that Bill passed that House with little or no opposition, but in another place it was thrown aside, on the ground that they had not time to attend to it. It was of great importance that the change in the Post office proposed last Session, if it were to be introduced this Session at all, should be introduced as soon as possible. The proposition was, to place the executive in Commissioners instead of one Postmaster General, who was a Peer, and had too much to do elsewhere, to enable him to attend to the affairs of the Post-office. He (Mr. Hume) did not think that there would be much advantage derived by having the head of the Post-office in the House of Commons; but he was unwilling to throw any difficulties in the way of the plan of the Government. He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state that he intended speedily to introduce the Bill, so that it might have full consideration in the other House, and not be rejected under the plea, that it was sent up there at a late period of the Session. There was no department of the public revenue that required so much attention as the Post-office. The amount of revenue derived from the Post-office was the same indeed as it was fifteen years ago, which could only be attributed to great neglect and mismanagement. It was therefore due to the country, if the Post office were to be made a source of revenue, which he thought a bad principle, that it should be rendered as advantageous as possible. He trusted they would soon have a Post-office executive, which would render that department efficient for the purposes for which it was established, and productive of profit—at present it was neither.
 Mr. Hume , having brought forward this question ten years ago, was unwilling to allow the discussion to drop without offering a few observations. He thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated a convincing reason why this subject ought to be brought under the consideration of the House, when he admitted that a great part of the insurance business was transferred to the opposite coasts,
 1196
 Mr. Pease  looked upon such a Bill as that proposed, to be a peace-preserving measure. There was no doubt that persons employed upon railroads set the existing laws at defiance, by quitting the neighbour hood in which they worked immediately after they had committed some robbery or outrage, changing their names, and looking for employment at a considerable distance from the scene of their offences. This he asserted from his own observation, residing as he did in a neighbour hood in which various railroads were in progress. He thought that the law, as respected master and servant, should be maintained with respect to railroads, and that the proprietors should be made responsible for any depredation committed by persons employed by them.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that they required no new law on the subject. The existing law was quite sufficient to prevent the evils complained of, as far as legislation could effect it. Before the hon. Member introduced his new measure, the House ought to have been made acquainted with its nature.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he certainly had nothing to complain of in the manner in which his hon. Friend had introduced this motion; he had stated his case shortly, and had stated briefly the arguments that pressed in favour of it. His hon. Friend told him that if he would only say that he meant to reduce this tax in the present Session he would not divide the House. Undoubtedly any other Gentleman whom he had ever yet heard in that House would likewise be indisposed to divide the House if he could obtain the whole of his objects without a division. The proposition of his hon. Friend, even on his own showing, did not go to the extent of committing the House of Commons to repeal or reduce the duty in the present year; it merely referred to some early period—it was very uncertain, and certainly did not compel the House to the repeal of the duty in the present year. But the hon. Gentleman said, that if he would only promise to repeal this tax in the present year, or, in other words, if he got more than he asked in his resolution, he would abstain from pressing the house to a division. He would at once say that he did not think that these petitioners had no claim to relief. If he said any such, thing, he should say what he certainly did not feel. He thought that the petitioners
 1193 1194 l.; l.; l. 1195
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that no intention whatever existed upon the part of Government to throw any impediment in the way of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Lymington. He would suggest to that hon. Member to
 1198
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to grant a copy of the memorial, but he could not hold out any hope of compensation to the sufferers on whose behalf the hon. Member had brought forward his motion. He sincerely sympathised with those individuals in the misfortune which had befallen them, but the hon. mover and Seconder must, upon reflection, perceive that, if Parliament were
 1201
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  adhered to the opinion which he had expressed last Session, that the Post-office department, in its present stale, was defective. He admitted also, that in order that measures of this kind should be brought to a satisfactory conclusion, they ought to be introduced at an early, not at a late period,
 1189
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the depredations of which the hon. Member complained were not confined to the vicinity of railroads or canals. There was not a great building of any kind carried on in the neighbour hood of which offences more or less did not consequently take place. He did not mean to object to the introduction of the Bill, but he hoped the House would maturely consider the question, and come to the conclusion of not passing such a measure, unless they were prepared to go much further, and legislate upon every alteration and minute circumstance that might occur in connexion with the commerce of the country. They should, indeed, be very careful of avoiding all confusion in dealing with the criminal law.
 Mr. Dugdale  begged leave to call the attention of the House to the depredations committed by persons employed by railroad, canal, and other public companies, for the purpose of introducing some measure for the protection of the persons and property of his Majesty's subjects during the time such public works were in progress, and moved for leave to bring in a Bill to effect the same. If Parliament were to evince the same readiness henceforth as they had done last Session, for the advancement of railroad speculations, in a short time there would be scarcely a village free from such depredations. Railroads were yet, however, but in their infancy, fifty-six railroad petitions had been presented last year, out of which thirty-five had been granted. They had had seventy-five applications for railroads this Session, and twelve for canals; and if Parliament were to assent to all these Bills, there would be about one hundred railroads forming in the country at the same time. At present there were 11,000 men employed on the London and Birmingham Railroad, and taking but half that number for each, they would have a body of not less than 500,000 men employed in these works, not of the most respectable characters, or taken from the most respectable ranks of society. He therefore thought the House would agree with him that there ought to be some law to prevent those persons from injuring the property of the neighbour hood in which they might be employed. He wished not to be understood as expressing a feeling hostile to railroads, which generally speak
 1202
 Mr. Mackinnon  rose to move the re-appointment of the Committee on turnpike tolls and trusts, for the purpose of considering such legislative enactments as ought to be recommended on the subject. It would, in his estimation, and in that of the Committee generally (which sat last year), be most desirable to maintain the various turnpike roads throughout the country by a house
 1197
 Mr. W. Roche  observed, that as the object of his motion was to obtain relief for those to whom it related, and as no hope of such relief had been held out by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it would be quite nugatory to merely obtain a copy of the memorial. He would, therefore, withdraw his motion.
 Mr. William Roche  said, that his motive in calling for the document alluded to in the notice of motion on the Order Book, was to solicit the attention, and endeavour to persuade and prevail on the justice, or at least to excite the sympathy and compassion of Parliament, of Government, and the country on behalf of the unfortunate and innocent sufferers by the disastrous consequences of the gunpowder explosion which occurred in the City of Limerick about two months ago, an event which was deeply interesting to every portion of the empire; for even while he was speaking a similar fatality might be happening in some other locality, and he therefore trusted the House would kindly attend to him while he gave as brief as possible a detail of this unfortunate occurrence. His attention was directed to this subject at the commencement of the Session, aware that, however lively the impulse of feeling and pity might be on the first announcement of such a calamity, yet that sympathy was a plant of very fleeting nature, and as a French writer aptly said, "Mankind can bear the afflictions of others with great Christian, patience;" but the various interruptions to which motions were liable, prevented an earlier notice of the subject. He was himself an eye-witness of that awful and destructive calamity and he could unfeigned idly assure the House no picture, however vivid—nocolouring, however heightened—no description, however heart-rending, could exceed the sad and shocking reality. In a moment several houses disappeared as if swallowed up by an earthquake, or prostrated by some supernatural agency. The gas lights were at once and simultaneously extinguished in that vicinity, and the street presented a terrific gloom, while the gathering crowd were left in darkness and in doubt as to the cause and the extent of the calamity. The unfortunate inmates were of course buried under the ruins, and the piteous moans, the agonizing appeals made by the surviving relatives to disentomb and save their unfortunate friends, still rang in his ears and harrowed up his feelings. Although the persons present were deeply anxious to
 1199 1200
 Sir John R. Reid  seconded the motion. He knew well all the circumstances to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, he knew the weight which ought to attach to his arguments on this subject, and he therefore seconded the motion with sincere pleasure and satisfaction. He hoped that after the circumstances detailed in the petition presented by the hon. Member, and the mode in which he had brought those circumstances before the House, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would grant the prayer of the petitioners, and offer no opposition to this motion.
 Lord Sandon  concurred in the recommendation that had been given to the hon. Member for Worcester, not to divide the House upon this motion. It was but fair to wait and see what measures would be proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not rise to enter into the general discussion after the understanding which had been come to that it should be postponed to a future occasion, and he was sure no one who heard the right hon. Gentleman's statement could doubt the justice of the application which was made to him yesterday, that he should not call for an immediate decision on the merits of his proposition, involving as it did principles of the greatest importance, as well as a great variety of details which required time for consideration even by those who were prepared to acquiesce in the principle. He merely rose that it might not be supposed by his silence that he in the least degree acquiesced in the principle of the right hon. Gentleman's proposition, which went, if he understood it aright, to divest the archbishops, bishops, deans, and chapters of the property they possessed, and vest it in the hands of Commissioners, who by running out the leases on that property were to receive its full value in order to make present provision for the payment of Church-rates; part of the fines being paid to the bishops, the remainder was to be applied to Church-rates. There was another point. The right hon. Gentleman proposed that, during existing interests, parties should retain all the powers they at present possessed of leasing those lands.
 Mr. Goulburn : He certainly understood the right hon. Gentleman to say so; at least with respect to the existing bishops granting leases.
 Mr. Goulburn  continued: Then out of what fund would the money be paid as an equivalent for the fines they would have received if they had continued to grant leases? This was more essential with respect to deans and chapters than with respect to bishops; because in the case of the bishop the lease depended only on one life, whereas in the other case, it de-
 1266
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to put another case. There were funds in many instances left by pious and benevolent individuals specifically for the purpose of maintaining the fabric of the church in their particular parishes. Did the right hon. Gentleman propose to transfer the management of those funds from the trustees in whose hands they were placed to the general Commissioners, to be applied by them to general church repairs in other parts of the country?
 Mr. Hawes  said, that though he was not disposed to take exception to the measure of his right hon. Friend, yet as his right hon. Friend expected a surplus, he would stale that there were many parishes in the borough he represented that were in debt, and as there was to be a surplus, he must set up a claim to a share of it, to be appropriated in a different manner than that proposed by his right hon. Friend. In that parish there was a large debt for building a new church; now he should be very Strongly opposed to allowing this debt to remain on the poor-rates; for, taking both Dissenters and Churchmen, what good could accrue from this to the inhabitants of Lambeth? He hoped that the surplus would be applied to the extinction of debt in such cases. He gave his most unqualified approbation to the measure, and was grateful to his Majesty's Ministers for having thus grappled with the difficulties of the subject, and held out the prospect of religious peace.
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt  would say but one word to express his assent to what had fallen from his hon. Friend and Colleague. The debt, if allowed to continue, would be a great burden on Dissenters, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman by some clause of the present Bill would give them relief.
 Mr. Forster  approved of many of the provisions of the plan submitted to the House by the right hon. Gentleman, but his hopes of the establishment of religious peace in many parishes had vanished when he heard that portion of it directing that the claims on parishes with regard to Church-rates now existing should be discharged. The popularity of the impost would not be increased by blending it with the poor-rates, nor would it be rendered more secure by being made to depend on a writ of  mandamus
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to know how
 1267
 Mr. Baines  rose for the purpose of making an observation on what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. The right hon. Baronet had said, that there was only Church accommodation for one-eleventh of the people of the diocese of York. He (Mr. Baines) happened to live in that diocese, and therefore had an opportunity of judging what accommodation there was; and he must say, that his own impression was, that there was not a town or hamlet in the whole diocese, that had much reason to complain of Church accommodation. He would not enter into a comparison of how many belonged to the Church, but he would ask, how many went to Church? This was an ingredient in the question that ought to be considered. If they found that in all towns, and in many of the populous villages, there was twice as much Church-room as there were persons to occupy it, they would be able to judge if Church-room were required for those who were not at present accommodated. There was another point which he wished to call to the attention of the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Baronet had spoken about the impropriety of relieving the landed gentry from the payment of Church-rates. But had they not relieved the gentry of Ireland? They had relieved them from the Church-cess,
 1280
 Mr. G. Palmer  said, that the consideration of the question embraced the principle on which his Majesty's Ministers were induced to bring forward the measure—the act itself and its consequences. Now it appeared that the sole objection to Church-rates was the refusal of Dissenters to continue to pay them. The hon. Member for Middlesex had told them that the Dissenters were a very large body; but did the hon. Member class them all as one body—those of different religious denominations, and those of no religion at all? Did the hon. Gentleman suppose that one party will acknowledge as partners the various other classes? The tendency of the measure, whatever was its object, was to degrade the Established Church. What, for instance, did the noble Lord intend to do with the property of archbishops and bishops? He had been assured that they were to retain full control over it, but they were now told that that property was to be vested in Commissioners, to save, he supposed, those dignitaries the trouble of attending to their own affairs, and to reduce them in fact to state pensioners, His Majesty's Ministers
 1275
 Mr. Goring : —It is with extreme reluctance that I find myself compelled on the present occasion in opposition to those Gentlemen I generally find myself able to support, but considering that in the measure which is now brought forward, notwithstanding the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman has varnished his tale, that a most unjust aggression is made on Church property, and that I am called upon to make a sacrifice of principle to expediency, I shall not one moment hesitate. I am anxious as far as possible to relieve the Dissenters from any real grievances, but will never consent to do it to the injury of the Established Church. I supported the measure brought forward in 1834 by Lord Spencer, because I thought it would relieve the Dissenters from those grievances of which they complain with justice, and provide for the proper maintenance of the Established Church. By the present proposition you are depriving the Established Church of one source of emolument without giving any adequate equivalent, except from its own resources, infringing on that alliance
 1262
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped, and believed, that the measure of the right hon. Gentleman would give great satisfaction to the country, and prove one of the most healing measures ever brought forward by a liberal Administration. He only rose for the purpose of putting one or two questions on which the country should have full information, affecting the holders of ecclesiastical leases. He wished to know whether in the calculations made by Mr. Finlayson or by the Government any difference had been contemplated between the leaseholders under bishops, and those under the deans and chapters? One part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech induced him to believe such had been the case, and yet he was not altogether sure that he had duly adverted to the fact, that in the case of bishops, a young bishop might run his life against that of the leaseholders, while in the case of the deans and chapters there was almost a moral certainty of renewal, because the more elderly members of that body were anxious to renew, that they might have the benefit
 1264
 Mr. Gally Knight  would not detain the House long, but he wished for an opportunity to express his astonishment at the proposition which had been brought forward by his right hon. Friend. It appeared to him that the scheme was altogether an attempt to get rid of this troublesome question by an act of spoliation on the Church. He had been always anxious to prevent and allay religious contention, and to afford relief to his Dissenting brethren, but he could not go the length of saying that the people of this country ought not to support the Church. Neither could he say, that the Government ought not to provide for the religious instruction of the people; on the contrary, he thought it was their first duty to do that. He thought that any man who lived under the protection of the laws of England might be fairly called on to contribute to the support of those institutions which altogether made England what it was—a more safe and beneficial country to live in than any other. If it was thought just to
 1260
 Mr. Plumptre  could not agree in opinion with the right hon. Gentleman that this would be a healing measure, or that it would be productive of the great benefits which the right hon. Gentleman professed to anticipate. He had been in the habit of hearing this kind of language uttered in reference to many measures which however were not found to verify the promises with which they had been propounded. What guarantee was there, if this measure were granted, that the Dissenters would not come forward and demand on the same ground to be exempted from the payment of tithes? He had never listened in the course of his whole political life to any statement coming from a Member of his Majesty's Government with so much astonishment as to that which had been uttered this evening by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He alluded more particularly to the first part of the proposition, which really seemed broadly to avow the principle that a tax being once considered unpopular by any section of the King's subjects, and even a shadow of argument being conjured up in favour of its abolition, it was the duty of Government at once to give way. That such a course should be propounded by a person in the responsible and important situation of Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to him extraordinary, if not unparalleled in the history of the country. His hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis) had truly stated that the petitions to that House which had been got up on this subject had not been confined in their prayer to the abolition of Church-rates. They avowed an open hostility to the Established Church; and he begged leave, in connexion with this subject, to read an extract from a letter addressed by a Dissenter, known to
 1263
 Mr. Hume  highly approved of the principle of this Bill. He had objected to Lord Spencer's plan of commuting the Church-rates and charging them on the Consolidated Fund, and he was pleased to find that four years' reflection had convinced the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues in the Government, that that plan was untenable, the reasons assigned to that effect on the present occasion by the right hon. Gentleman being precisely those which he had urged on the former occasion. A few years had effected a great change, and they bad now, he was pleased to think, come round to him. He was bound, therefore, to express his entire approbation of the principle of this measure because it placed the burden of maintaining the fabric of the Church on its own property. In that view it would produce the most healing effect. The present system was at once most unjust and oppressive. The Church he was quite sure, would stand better in public esteem having once got rid of this grievance. Dissenters called for no further concessions. He had been with 400 delegates, representing 700 places, who fully and deliberately resolved that they should have nothing to do at present with anything but the question of Church-rates. They had no intention to ask for anything more at the present moment. Did he mean to say they would always continue of that opinion? He had seen great changes within a few years, and he, for one, should not be at all surprised to see the right hon. Baronet opposite sitting on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, and positively out-doing and outstripping the present Administration, and, therefore, he maintained they should not now refuse justice to those who were entitled to it because hereafter individuals might come forward and demand that which they thought would be unjust. Dissenters at present put everything else into abeyance, in order that they might not embarrass Ministers on this question.
 1268
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what the right hon. Gentleman meant to do where parishes were in debt? He understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that the abolition of Church-rates should take place from a certain day, but that where parishes were in debt the same rates as those now in force were to be continued.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that as he had presented several petitions on this subject, he was anxious to say a few words. The proposition made by his right hon. Friend had been brought forward in so clear and lucid a manner, that he had no difficulty in giving it his unqualified support. He hailed the measure as one calculated to remove, or rather to prevent, growing strife and animosity in the different parishes of England. The hon. Baronet had spoken of the few parishes in which there had been a successful resistance to Church-rates, but he seemed to have forgotten that a still greater resistance to them would take place unless this or some remedial measure were passed. His right hon. Friend had compared the resistance
 1261
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  thought, that the principle of the proposed measure was so just and simple, that he might congratulate the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the name of his constituents, on having brought forward a plan so satisfactory. The principle on which it was founded was, that the revenues of the Church should defray the repairs of the ecclesiastical edifices and the other expenses connected with them, so that no burden might be thrown on the general taxes of the country. His right hon. Friend had said that he would abolish Church-rates, without doing injustice on any parties; and though the details might be somewhat complicated, the measure he had now proposed would practically abolish Church-rates without inflicting any wrong; and it was clear that the Church would be rather a gainer than a loser by the change. Neither could he perceive that this measure would inflict any hardship on the deans and chapters unless they were so base and sordid as to take unfair advantage of the proposition of his right hon. Friend.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer * * 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 One scene I shall never forget;—an actual trial of personal strength between two Gentlemen, each trying to eject the other from the chair, the partisans on each side backing and encouraging the combatants. There was no further attempt made to obtain a Church-rate until 1824; and in that year, the active opponents of the rate on the former occasion being dead, the Church rate party called a vestry meeting to lay a rate; and so disgusted had I been at the scenes at former meetings, where the rate was only got rid of by a quibble, that I proposed a resolution negativing the granting of a rate, on the ground of its injustice. This was carried, and there has been no attempt to lay a rate since then. 1213 In 1834 a contest again took place in Manchester. The election of the Members was nothing to it. The poll lasted five or six days and nearly 15000 votes were polled, and there was a majority against the rate of 11,000. It appears that a scrutiny was demanded; but what was the result? This large majority was declared to be a minority; but though dared to do so, they declined to try the case at law. 1214 Sibthorp. Hear! hear!' s. d. s. d. 1215 l. s. d. l. 1216 "Suppose (said he) that, year after year, the Church should be triumphant in maintaining the payment of these rates to the uttermost farthing, and in maintaining every abuse connected with their collection and distribution; does my hon. Friend (the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford) think that such a course of proceeding would be advantageous to the interests of the Church, or lead to the promotion of true religion?" "Does my hon. Friend consider the heart-burnings, the acrimonious revilings, the constant quarrels, the jealousies, the recrimination, the profanation of the Church itself, where these meetings take place, by which, year after year, the cause of true religion is violated and profaned, the house of God desecrated, and the very worst possible feeling excited among the majority of the people at large? I say,
 1217 1218 1219 l. l. 1220 l. 1221 1222 l. l. l. 1223 1224 The Quarterly Review "If the plan be adopted of upholding the churches out of the national purse, and the repairs be charged on the Consolidated Fund, where is the relief to the Dissenter? for the principle by which he is made—indirectly to be sure, but still substantially—to contribute to the maintenance of a building which he never enters, is just in as full force as under a system of rates." 1225 l. 1226 Hear, hear. 1227 1228 toties quoties, 1229 l. 1230 1231 l. l. 1232 l., l. l. l. 1233 l. 
 
 Archbishops and bishops 74,812 
 Deans and chapters 164,059 
 Prebendaries, &c. 21,760 
 £260,631 
 
 Fines on lives 150,671 
 Fines on terms of years 109,960 
 £260,631 
 
 Years. 
 Average subsisting leases for lives. 29·6 
 Average subsisting leases for years. 15·7 l. 1234 l. l., 
 
 Immediate income £516,000 
 Deduct the fines 261,000 
 Surplus applicable to church rates and received fund £225,000 l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1235 "The Legislature has not always taken the same view of the comparative trustworthiness of bishops and chapters as is taken by the commission. Bishops' leases for years are for twenty-one years, renewable every seven. When seven years are expired, if the present tenant will not renew, the bishop may grant a concurrent lease. How does his lordship act upon such occasions? He generally asks two years' income for the renewal, when chapters, not having the privilege of granting such concurring leases, ask only a year and a half; and if the bishop's price is not given, he put a son or a daughter, or a trustee, into the estate, and the price of the lease deferred is money saved for his family. But unfair and exorbitant terms may be asked by his lordship, and the tenant may be unfairly dispossessed; therefore the Legislature enacts, that all those concur, rent leases must be counter-signed by the dean and chapter of the diocese, making them the safeguards against episcopal rapacity, and, as I hear from others, not making them so in vain." 1236 1237 1238 circumspectè agatis, in rebus tangentibus Episcopum. 1239 "The worst case is that of a superannuated bishop. Here the preferment is given away, and must be given away, by wives and daughters, or by sons, utterly unacquainted with ecclesiastical matters; and the poor dying
 1240 "The favour which is shown to old tenants, by granting them a renewal of their leases, preferably to a stranger, has given them, in the eye of the law, an interest beyond their subsisting term, and this interest is generally termed their tenant right of renewal. This is particularly applicable to leases from the Crown, from the Church, from Colleges, or from other Corporations. These circumstances have produced what is called tenant right. Attempts have been made to establish an obligation in landlords to renew, but they have not succeeded. The renewal, therefore, is still a matter of favour and of chance; but is so far valuable, that it enhances the price of the property on sales." 1241 "This Act would be prejudicial both to the bishop present, and the successor, and their servants, and to the bishop's own farmers and tenants. To the bishop present, in the maintenance of his estate, which cometh only by continual fines; which, if they be taken away, then are they not able to maintain that hospitality, or keep that retinue either belonging to their place, or answerable to their living; for consider the revenue of the greatest bishop in England, it is but 2,200 l. l. Sibthorp. "Whereof he payeth for annual subsidy to the Queen 500 l. l. Sibthorp. 1242 "And what damage we shall do both to the bishop and to his successor, his revenue being so beneficial to her Majesty, I refer to all your judgments. To the successor it must needs be more hurtful; for, when he first cometh in, he payeth first fruits, and yet is not allowed to make his benefit by fines, which all bishops' farmers are contented to do, so that he is cast one whole year's revenue behind hand; and, perhaps, hath no power, neither to make leases in twelve or sixteen years. This, Mr. Speaker, will be a cause to induce the ministers of the word not to seek bishoprics, whereby we may bring the clergy both to poverty and contempt, from which they have ever been carefully defended and provided for, even by the most ancient statutes and laws of this realm now extant. Hurtful it is to their servants, for this may be every man's case. We know many good gentlemen's sons served bishops; and how can they reward their long and faithful service, but only by means of granting over of these fines, or some other means out of the spiritual functions. But this Act is good for the courtier; but I must speak no more of that. Lastly, Mr. Speaker, myself am farmer to a bishop; and I speak this as in my own case, (on my knowledge) to the House; that it is ordinary upon every grant, after four or five years ever to fine and take a new lease. But, I refer it to the consideration of the House to do their pleasures herein; only this I certify, that I have the copy of the Bill the last Parliament exhibited to this purpose, which I having compared, together with the present Bill, do find them to be, word for word, all one; and that was rejected;—and so, I doubt not, if the reasons be well weighed, but this will have the like success." Hear! hear! 1243 "Even those who declared that it is unjust and improper to interfere with the revenues of the Church will agree with me, that if by the Act of Parliament which will be introduced, on this subject, any new value is given to benefices, that new value, so created, would not properly belong to the Church; and whatever is raised by it may be immediately appropriated to the exigencies of the State.….I feel, therefore, that those gentlemen who object to any interference with Church property will fully and readily agree to this proposition. If, therefore, as I have already observed, an increased value will be created by the contemplated Act of Parliament, then I
 1244 "What is it we propose? That the land shall remain charged with a certain corn-rent; and that the tenant shall have no power, nor the Bishop either, to alter that arrangement. The tenant shall pay a regular sum—a larger sum—the amount to be calculated by a public accountant. To whom, then, shall be the benefit of this payment? The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth says, 'to the Church,' I say, 'to the State.'" "Why do I say that this is applicable to the State? What is the present value of Church property? The Bishop, by the conditions which you—the State—have imposed upon him, and on which he holds his land, cannot grant a lease for a longer period than twenty-one years. The lease, subject to this condition, if brought into the market, is worth about twelve years and a half purchase. You pass an Act which increases the value of those leases to the extent of seven, eight, or, it may
 1245 1246 "In the year 1561 a fire happened in St. Paul's Cathedral, which burnt down the lofty spire, and otherwise damaged the edifice. The Queen, Elizabeth, resolved to have the damage speedily repaired; and what steps did the Queen take to effect this object? 'Being,' as Strype observes, 'church work, she reckoned the bishops and clergy would especially be contributors thereto.' She sent a letter, therefore, to the archbishop, 'that he should consult with the bishops of his province, and the chief of the clergy, to devise among them some convenient way for collecting money from them for that use.' The archbishop accordingly issued his order to the bishop of London, and the other Bishops of his province, 'that they should contribute the twentieth part of their promotions in the diocese of London, and the thirtieth part elsewhere, with the exception of stipendiary curates, and beneficed men, exempt by statute from first fruits, unless they should be brought to contribute by good persuasion of the Bishops, and to pay one fortieth.' Some of the clergy being backward with their payments, Queen Elizabeth's council issued a letter to the archbishop, desiring him to collect the arrears, and informing him that 'further orders' would be taken if the clergy should refuse to pay. Such was the mode adopted by Queen Elizabeth for repairing St. Paul's." 1247 *
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that his proposition was common to leases under bishops, and deans, and chapters, his calculations having been founded on a reference to the whole of the ecclesiastical property in that respect. With reference to the allowance to be made to lessees in possession, he must say it was difficult to go into that part of the case without a much more full exposition of the details of the plan than he could now profess to give; but his principle was, to offer such terms to existing lessees as must obviously make it a matter of great advantage to themselves to accede to one or other of the alternatives proposed. He did not think he could adopt the provision of the Irish Bill with respect to bishops' leases in this measure. With respect to the other point touched on—the extent of time which should intervene before the final settlement of the matter—he quite agreed with his hon. Friend. The people throughout the country should undoubtedly have the means of accurately judging of all the details of this measure. What he, therefore, proposed was, that they should report progress, and resume the Committee on Friday next. When the decision of the House had been pronounced upon the resolution, he should, as soon after as possible, introduce his Bill. The Bill should then be printed—the resolution itself would, of course, only express the principle, on which the Bill would be founded. The Bill would then be circulated throughout the country
 1265
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad that question had been put so distinctly; he should give at once a distinct reply to it, in order that no apprehension might prevail on the subject. Nothing in the world could be more unjust—nothing could be more foreign from his intentions, than that those parish estates should be seized and confiscated, and thrown into the hands of the Commissioners, for the purpose of applying them to the general repairs of churches throughout the country. Such a course would be quite contrary to the intention of the testators; all he wished was, that there should be a general power of control exercised by the Commissioners, in order, for instance, that the bishop might see that those local funds were duly applied to the maintenance of the particular parish church before any additional advances were made for that purpose.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt confident that the terms of the proposition would at once be accepted generally by the lessees, which would produce the annuity of 516,000  l., l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, with reference to existing bishops, the rents now reserved should be paid as before, and the surplus carried to the common account, or they might elect to take the average of the fines forthwith.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I did not so propose.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the hon. and gallant Gentleman that there would be no necessity for a large establishment of Commissioners in this instance. He had no wish to fix high salaries—infact, he wished to leave that matter entirely with the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there were certain rights which undoubtedly would be respected. After an abundant and more extensive provision
 1269
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer . —There was some difficulty in entering into the details at present; but there would be a classification of pew-rents in this way:—those who had rights which could be legally Established would, of course, have them respected—the poor in all cases would be provided for; and the intermediate class would, with the approval of the Bishop, make their own arrangements.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that where parishes were in debt, those debts must be paid out of a parochial rate to be levied till they are fully liquidated.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that when the question of
 1274
 Mr. James  thought, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had done right in taking the management of the episcopal incomes out of the hands of the Church. He particularly approved of that part of the right hon. Gentleman's plan, which he thought likely to obviate that carelessness and improvidence in the management of the leases which would otherwise inevitably prevail.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull : —Would the farmers and those attending the parish churches throughout England be subject to pew-rents, with the exception of some legal rights?
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  would not be tempted, even by the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, to enter into the general discussion of this subject, although he could not but think the House was under the deepest obligations to him for having so explicitly declared himself. The hon. Member had undoubtedly let the cat out of the bag, and exposed the designs of that party he represented in that House. He merely rose to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman with respect to pew rents. If he understood his proposition, it amounted to this—that in the Churches throughout the kingdom a certain portion of pews should be set apart for the poor; and to that provision he gave his most hearty support; but with respect to the remainder, a pew-rent was to be exacted of all who were not included in the description of the poor. Was that really so?
 The Attorney-General  begged leave to say that, in the event of a parish being in debt, it was not a voluntary payment; but it was a compulsory payment on a  mandamus
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that after the manner in which the attention of the Committee had been excited and sustained by the speech of his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was certain that no Member could rise on the present occasion under circumstances of greater disadvantage than himself. Though he did not approve of the plan of his Majesty's Government now propounded by his right hon. Friend, it would be more satisfactory to him in the first place to state the points on which he agreed with his right hon. Friend opposite. He concurred with his right hon. Friend in four of the propositions he had laid down this night to the Committee. He must reverse their order, and come first to deal with the last point urged by his right hon. Friend. His right hon. Friend's last proposition was, that under no circumstances would he consent to a separation in this country between Church and State. In that sentiment he most fully and completely concurred; but it ought not to be lost sight of, that much of the arguments brought forward by the Dissenters against the present system of Church-rates might be said to be founded on the existing connexion between the Church and the State. He therefore was glad to have the authority of his right hon. Friend, pledged as strongly as any man could pledge himself, that he would not consent to any separation. The next point to which his right hon. Friend adverted was, that under no circumstances would he ever consent to what was popularly called the voluntary principle. In this declaration he also rejoiced. The third proposition was one in which he felt that degree of interest which fully justified his right hon. Friend in appealing to him upon it. The proposition was, that he never would consent to any measure which would deprive the poor of access to the religion of their country. There his right hon. Friend had touched on a point deeply interesting to the poorer classes of the community, who, because the gospel was preached to them, valued the religion of the land of their birth. The fourth proposition of his right hon. Friend was, the immense importance of the subject—a subject on which he stated that he almost forgot himself in its consideration. He would not use that expression in the way of taunt to his right hon. Friend, but there had been those now connected with his Majesty's Government
 1254 1255 1256 1257 l. l. 1258 Commentaries on the Scriptures, 1259
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had not the slightest wish to enter upon a discussion of the details of this measure, thinking as lie did that it would be much better to reserve the discussion of a matter of such serious importance for that period when such discussion might be expected to end in some practical result; and, above all, in order that they might have an opportunity of investigating the plan proposed by the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), as the principles of that measure were not quite so apparent to him as to the right hon. Gentleman. At the same time he should be sorry, on this occasion, to omit any reference to the impressions made on his mind by the statements of the right hon. Gentleman. He thought that nothing could be more satisfactory to those who concurred with him in opinion than the declaration made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the necessity of maintaining the Established Church. He had no fault to find with this position; but he doubted whether in practice this measure was in exact conformity with this principle. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) said that he repudiated altogether the voluntary principle. But did his repudiating the voluntary principle necessarily imply that it was incumbent on the State to support the Established religion? If there could be any doubt as to the intention of the right hon. Gentleman, his own express words left no doubt as to the principle on which he meant to act. The right hon. Gentleman said that he would not leave it to the voluntary principle to find means of defence; and he added, that it ought not to be entrusted to the voluntary principle to find means of religious instruction. The right hon. Gentleman had said that it was at least as incumbent on them to provide a religious establishment as to provide an army or a navy for the purposes of defence. The moment the
 1276 1277 1278 l. l. 1279 1.
 Viscount Howick  regretted that the noble Lord had not thought proper to follow the example set him by the speakers who had previously addressed the House. He thought the noble Lord had invidiously misrepresented the character of the measure: he was not afraid to discuss its provisions with the noble Lord; and he could not let the occasion pass without correcting some of his misconceptions. The noble Lord complained that his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had termed Church-rates rather
 1271 bona fide l. l. 1272 1273
 Viscount Sandon  complained of the expression employed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in styling Church-rates rather a privilege enjoyed by the Church than a property possessed by it. If they were regarded as a mere privilege, how came it that a debt of 800,000 l. 1270 Congregational Magazine,
 Mr. Goulburn  had come down the other night prepared, if there had been a division, to support the noble Lord with his vote. A great object, he thought, in the selection of the Committee would have been that its opinion, when delivered, should produce a due impression upon the public. Unless persons were persuaded, that there was a fair representation of sentiments and feelings in the Committee, its general opinion, when delivered, could not carry great weight with the country. If the hon. Member for Berkshire perse-
 1283
 Mr. O'Connell  said, something had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, which induced him to take that opportunity of delivering a few words explanatory of his own opinions on this question. The hon. Member had told the House, that he was a man of liberal
 1324 ex officio 1325 1326 1327
 Colonel Thompson , after what he had heard during the debate, could not avoid
 1334 "If we could but lose Canada, what should we gain in a commercial way! Would not every man in England who lives in a house, gain a substantial sum which he might add to the amount of his enjoyments? Is not Canada kept as a breeding pen or a warren to which to send that part of the population which is not allowed to live at home? Do not our young couples marry with a certainty that they are to breed for exportation? Will the people of England think it worth their white to struggle for the maintenance of that system? We are told also that we are to struggle for the present Legislative Council, lest there should be an elective one. Why, what do we want ourselves but an elective Legislative Council? Is not that one of the objects which the hearts of a vast majority of the people of England are visibly at this moment fixed upon? Is this to be our recruiting cockade against Canada—'Don't let Canada have an elective Legislative Council, for if you do, there will be an elective Council here?" This is what is proposed to us. I certainly think that the reasons for an elective Legislative Council for Canada, are stronger than they are for one in this country, strong as they may be with us. There is a sort of reverence among the people for a House of Lords, and justly so to a certain extent. Voltaire once said to an old lady, that he had said in five minutes more good of the Creator of the world, than she had ever thought of him in all her life. Now, let me see if I may not say the same with respect to the House of Lords. The House of Lords contains the descendants of men who once possessed substantial power, co-equal with that of the empire, and even superior to it. It still maintains much of that reverence which the people of former days entertained for it; but does anything of that kind exist in Canada? Is there anything there but a mock House of Lords." 1335
 Lord Stanley  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would give his particular attention to the subject alluded to by the hon. Member for Durham. It was desirable that this Bill, which professed to be a remedial measure, should not inflict injustice. This it certainly would do if it destroyed the efficacy of the judgments of the Courts in question. The inhabitants within their jurisdiction would have to submit either to the expense of proceedings in Westminster Hall, or to a total denial of justice. The practice of those Courts had been assimilated by Act of Parliament with that of Westminster Hall, but this would go to neutralise that provision of the Legislature.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  hoped, as the hon. Member for Middlesex was named upon the Committee, he would act upon it, and give to the question the benefit of his labours. He might be allowed to say, that there were times at which the services of the hon. Member were called for, and when he was not as active as he might be.
 Lord John Russell  thought the hon. Member for Berkshire had subjected himself to that difficulty in point of form, and he, therefore, felt it a great relief in not having to object to particular names, which might perhaps be considered personally offensive. He thought the hon. Member for Berkshire also, was either too early or too late with his motion. There had been a regular notice-day on which the motion might have been brought on, had the hon. Member thought proper; but he had put off his motion till the Committee had actually sat, and he now interrupted the regular proceedings of the
 1284
 Lord John Russell : I can assure you, Sir, that I never rose with so much reluctance to make a proposition to the House of Commons, as I now rise to propose the resolutions of which I have given notice, and with which proposition I mean to conclude the observations I am about to make. It is my duty, and it is the duty of his Majesty's Government to which I belong, and of which I stand here as the representative on this occasion, to bring under the notice of the House the affairs of Canada, with a view to the declaration of what is our sense of the conduct of the representatives of the people of Lower Canada, and to ask this House to apply to the necessary services of that colony those sums of money which ought, in the regular course, to have been voted by the colonial assembly. I feel that it is necessary, in order to justify us in taking such a course, to show, first, that there is a necessity for interference on the part of Parliament; and, secondly, that that interference cannot be other than that, and certainly should not stop short of it, which I shall have the honour to propose. In making this proposition I do so with very great reluctance, yet, at the same, time, I feel that the House of Assembly of Lower Canada have the advantage of being represented in this House, and that their case will be stated with as much ability as they can desire; and that if in any respect I shall wrong them by the proposal I shall have to make to this House, they will have an opportunity of having their claims fully advanced, and their pretensions put in the most favourable light, by the Gentlemen who have undertaken to support their cause. It is likewise a consolation to me to know, in bringing forward the affairs of Lower Canada, that the pretensions put forth by the Assembly of that province, are not supported by the general concurrence of the other provinces of North America subject to the Crown of Great Britain, It is not now proposed, on the part of Upper
 1288 1289 1290 1291 1292 1293 1294 1295 1296 1297 1298 1299 l. 1300 1301 1302 1303 1304 "1. That since the 31st day of October, in the year 1832, no provision has been made by the Legislature of the province of Lower Canada, for defraying the charges of the administration of justice, and for the support of the civil government, within the said province, and that there will, on the 10th day of April now next ensuing, be required for defraying in full the charges aforesaid to that day, the sum of 142,160 l. s. d. "2. That at a Session of the Legislature of Lower Canada, holden at the city of Quebec, in the said province, in the months of September and October, 1836, the Governor of the said province, in compliance with his Majesty's commands, recommended to the attention of the House of Assembly thereof, the estimates for the current year, and also the accounts, showing the arrears due in respect of the civil government, and signified to the said House his Majesty's confidence that they would accede to the application which he had been commanded to renew, for payment of the arrears due on account of the public service, and for the funds necessary to carry on the civil government of the province. "3. That the said House of Assembly, on the 3d day of October, 1836, by an address to the Governor of the said province, declined to vote a supply for the purposes aforesaid, and by the said address, after referring to a former address of the said House to the Governor of the said province, declared that the said House House persisted, amongst other things, in the demand of an elective Legislative Council, and in demanding the repeal of a certain Act
 1305 "4. That in the existing state of Lower Canada, it is unadvisable to make the Legislative Council of that province an elective body; but that it is expedient that measures be adopted for securing to that branch of the Legislature a greater degree of public confidence. "5. That while it is expedient to improve the composition of the Executive Council in Lower Canada, it is unadvisable to subject it to the responsibility demanded by the House of Assembly of that province. "6. That the legal title of the North American Land Company to the land holden by the said Company, by virtue of a grant from his Majesty, under the public seal of the said province, and to the privileges conferred on the said company by the Act for that purpose made, in the fourth year of his Majesty's reign, ought to be maintained inviolate. "7. That it is expedient, that so soon as provisions shall have been made by law, to be passed by the Legislature of the said province of Lower Canada, for the discharge of lands therein from feudal dues and services, and for removing any doubts as to the incidents of the tenure of land in fee and common soccage in the said province, a certain Act made and passed in the sixth year of the reign of his late Majesty King George IV., commonly called 'The Canada Tenures Act,' and so much of another Act passed in the third year of his said late Majesty's reign, commonly called 'The Canada Trade Act,' as relates to the tenures of land in the said province, should be repealed, saving nevertheless to all persons all rights in them vested under or by virtue of the said recited Acts. "8. That for defraying the arrears due on account of the established and customary charges of the administration of justice, and of the civil government of the said province, it is expedient, that after applying for that purpose such balance as shall, on the said 10th day of April, 1837, be in the hands of the Receiver-General of the said province, arising from his Majesty's hereditary, territorial, and casual revenue, the Governor of the said province be empowered to issue from and out of any other part of his Majesty's
 1306 l. s. d. "9. That it is expedient that his Majesty be authorised to place at the disposal of the Legislature of the said province, the net proceeds of his Majesty's hereditary, territorial, and casual revenue arising within the same, in case the said Legislature shall see fit to grant to his Majesty a civil list for defraying the necessary charges of the administration of justice, and for the maintenance and unavoidable expenses of certain of the principal officers of the civil government of the said provinces. "10. That great inconvenience had been sustained by his Majesty's subjects inhabiting the provinces of Lower Canada and Upper Canada, from the want of some adequate means for regulating and adjusting questions respecting the trade and commerce of the said provinces, and divers other questions, wherein the said provinces have a common interest; and it is expedient that the Legislature of the said provinces respectively be authorised to make provision for the joint regulation and adjustment of such their common interest."
 Major Beauclerk  could not possibly serve on the Committee upon the question of the Poor-law. All, he believed, had a bias one way or another; and, it must be said, with respect to the present Committee, the bias of the majority was certainly in favour of the Poor-law. It would, he considered, have been much better if the Committee were more half-and-half on the question respecting which their opinion was to be delivered.
 Mr. Villiers  had never spoken to any one on the subject of the Committee since it had been appointed. He was not a country squire, nor a party man, nor did he pretend to be more humane than another; but when he heard of the subject that was to be submitted for inquiry, he was prepared to go into that inquiry with the intention of discovering if the Bill had worked efficiently. He did not desire to be on that Committee—he had not solicited to be put on it; but having been appointed, he certainly was most anxious to discharge his duty fairly and impartially.
 Mr. Baines  was connected with a large manufacturing district, which had expressed a very strong feeling adverse to the new Poor-laws, and it had happened that he voted against the passing of that measure. So far the objection of the hon. Gentleman did not apply with much force to him. He certainly considered that the Committee was fairly constituted, and that they were acting upon principles which would be satisfactory to that House and the country.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the simple question was, whether the Committee was so constituted as to inspire the country with confidence in their decision. He had stated on a former evening, and he thought it his duty to state now, that he had rather there were no Committee at all than one constituted as the present. If he had any weight with the noble Lord, he would entreat him to place the additional names proposed upon the Committee, if it were for no other purpose than to avoid the imputation that the Members now on the Committee had a bias to one side of the question.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that he had the letter of the hon. Member for Middlesex in print, and had never heard it denied before. The noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) had justly observed, that the British Parliament had been absolutely menaced by the French Canadian party, and their supporters; and it had been said, that if these resolutions were attempted to be carried, it would lead to a rebellion in Canada. Now, he remembered that last year, the hon. Member for Middlesex stated, that these demands
 1320 1321 1322  dernier resort 1323
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the speech, of the hon. Member for Bridgewater had been a complete commentary upon that delivered by the noble Lord opposite, who had moved the resolutions now under the consideration of the House. Everybody, however, who was acquainted with the policy of the present Government must be well aware that the noble Lord must have submitted those resolutions for the adoption of the House with a great deal of reluctance, and that those resolutions never would have been brought forward by him if he had not felt that every means for the conciliation of the Canadian people had been completely exhausted. The hon. Member for Bridgewater had assumed throughout the whole of his speech that the House of Assembly were right in all
 1315 1316 Minerva  Minerva 1317 1318 Roebuck: 1319
 Mr. Robinson  was not aware the language he had cited, had been denied by the hon. and learned Member for Bath; on the contrary, he had supposed the use of it had been admitted. If he was wrong in that supposition, he begged the hon. and learned Gentleman's pardon.
 The Speaker  observed, that the general rule was to have fifteen Members nominated on a Committee. In this case, it was specially moved to have the Committee enlarged to twenty-one Members. Before any new names were added to that Committee, then, that resolution must be disposed of by the House. The point of form was, in his opinion, against the Amendment.
 The Speaker  informed the House that he had received a petition from the Crown and Hanaper office, Dublin, complaining of an undue election and return for the county of Carlow.
 Mr. Leader : It is my intention to oppose the resolutions proposed by the noble Lord, if the usage of the House permit. If the noble Lord in rising to bring forward the subject were under the necessity of craving the indulgence of the House, I must also claim similar indulgence, not only on account of illness, but on account of the vast importance of the question. The interests of a nation—the interests of a large and gallant body of fellow-subjects—depend on the vote which the House may come to on the resolutions proposed by the noble Lord. The resolutions were of vital importance, not only to the colony, but to this country, and any one much more competent than myself to discuss the merits of the question must approach it with some degree of awe. The noble Lord said he brought forward the resolutions with considerable reluctance, and I am not surprised at the expression. The noble Lord represented a liberal constituency, and was the leader of a liberal Government, and he must therefore have felt reluctance in bringing forward the most arbitrary measure that had ever been proposed to that House. It was, in short, a Coercion Bill. The noble Lord admitted that colonial assemblies were often in the right at the commencement, when they complained of grievances and
 1307 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312 1313 1314
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. That assertion had been so often contradicted by him, that he was surprised the hon. Member for Worcester should again quote it.
 Mr. Roebuck : A few nights since, in the very place I now stand, I found myself advocating, in conjunction with his Majesty's Ministers, justice to Ireland. I did so, and I would fain have hoped that they did so, not in obedience to any pressing exigency, not for the sake of present expediency, but in accordance with the great, lasting, and universal principles of legislation, with those principles which teach us that if we desire the people to be well governed, we must allow them to govern themselves. This hope, however, has been raised only to be disappointed; a week has not passed before my illusion has been destroyed, and I am compelled to see that we in vain desire such conduct from men in office amongst us, for they have neither the capacity nor the courage to be consistent. We have now before us a case in all its leading, all its important, particulars parallel to that of Ireland. We have, as I shall immediately prove, the same difficulties to overcome, the same prejudices to face, and yet I now find new and very different principles invoked, a very different conduct pursued. "England," said the noble Lord a few nights since, "has justice because she is inhabited by Englishmen. Scotland, because inhabited by Scotchmen." Let me finish his sentence. "Canada has justice denied her, because inhabited by Canadians." The same necessity does not press upon the Government, in the case of Canada, as now bears them down with regard to Ireland. They render justice upon compulsion; and not dreading any pressure from without to force them to be just to a distant colony, they follow their usual habit, the natural bent of their inclinations, and refuse justice to Canada. I appeal, however, from the decision of the Government, to the people of England. I appeal to the people of Ireland—to the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and his friends in this House, I also appeal. We have fought their battle, the battle of Ireland, manfully, and without flinching. That fight still rages! If we are to hope for success, we must prove, by our steady love and pursuit of justice; that we deserve it. If we desire justice for Ireland, we
 1336 1337 1338 en bloc 1339 en bloc. 1340 l l 1341 1342 1343 1344 1345 1346 1347 1348 veto 1349 1350 1351 1352 1353 1354
 Mr. Walter  said, that it was only out of deference to the recommendations of several hon. Gentlemen that he had given way on a late occasion, and withdrawn the list of names of Gentlemen whom he had proposed should form the Committee on
 1281
 Mr. Hume  could not perceive why a question like that of the operation of the amended Poor-law ought to be made a party question; nor why, in this instance,
 1282
 Mr. Hume : I deny also the use of the language imputed to me by the hon. Member for Worcester.
 Mr. Pease  inquired, whether the judgements of the County Palatine Courts of Durham and Lancaster would, under this Bill, have equal weight with those of the superior Courts of Westminster Hall?
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  could not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman in the analogy which he had attempted to draw between the cases of Canada and Ireland, because he had thought that the grievances of Ireland were always attributed to religious distinctions, which had been persisted in to the great detriment of
 1328 "That your petitioners, deeply deploring the inevitable necessity of external legislation in the internal affairs of the province—a necessity which springs from the systematic hostility of a dominant party to the provincial Executive, and to the progress of rational improvement, humbly rely on the wisdom and justice of your honourable House to concur in such modifications only of the provincial constitution as may be deemed indispensably requisite to afford permanent relief to the financial embarrassments of the Executive, to maintain the subsisting connexion between the mother country and the colony, and to preserve in their proper places, and within their due limits the mutual rights and privileges of all classes of his Majesty's subjects within this province." "Numbering in our ranks, many who were, both in Britain and Ireland, foremost in the cause of Reform—independent in our principles—unconnected with office—of all classes and all creeds—bound together by the endearing recollection of a common origin, and the powerful sentiment of a common danger, we are prepared to resist to the utmost the efforts of a party which, under the specious guise of popular institutions, would sever wisdom from
 1329 "He was anxious that his view of this question should not be misunderstood. His own opinion was, that such a power (the power of making and of altering laws which should be binding on the colonies) did inhere in Parliament by the law and constitution of England. It was a power which ought not to be wantonly or indiscriminately exercised, but which should be reserved for extraordinary occasions—to preserve the unity of the empire—to prevent discord between distant dependencies—to regulate the general commercial intercourse of every part of Europe—above all, to correct any extraordinary act of direct misrule and oppression which the provincial governments might commit." 1330
 Mr. Wason  observed, that the difficulty might be obviated, by confining the judgments to property in the two counties of Lancaster and Durham.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  observed, that if the new Poor-law were so excellent, and if, as they were told, the more inquiry the subject received, the more the country would be satisfied with it, then in that case what objection could there be to the six or seven names proposed? He was certain, that the greatest injury would result from any attempt at smothering the inquiry.
 Sir George Grey  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had endeavoured to lead the House from the real object under its consideration by a lengthened detail of grievances, the whole of which, with one exception, he perfectly remembered to have heard the hon. and learned Member go through in a speech delivered by him in 1834, when he moved for a Committee to "inquire into the state of Canada. The hon. and learned Member omitted to state the fact, although it was a most material one that they were now discussing this question under entirely altered circumstances from those which existed when the question came formerly before this House. In the several addresses which had lately been presented to the House, from the
 1355 1356 1357 1358 1359 1360 1361 1362
 The Attorney-General  feared that un-
 1363 1364
 Sir W. Molesworth  had listened attentively to the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, and to those who had spoken on the same side of the question, without hearing any argument which could at all support or justify the extraordinary resolutions which had been proposed for the adoption of the House. He would not go at length into the state of affairs in the Canadas. The hon. Member for Worcester, the chairman of the British American Land Company, and the hon. Member who last addressed the House, also, he believed, a member of that company, took occasion to deny the similarity which existed between the state of affairs in Canada and Ireland; whereas he contended with his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, that Canada was but Ireland on a small scale. On the one side, they had the vast majority of the people—on the other "a miserable monopolizing minority," arrogating to itself superiority of place, and treating the rest of the people as aliens in blood. He called on that House to assist the representatives of the Canadian people. The Canadian people complained of certain grievances, and their representatives had adopted the constitutional mode of refusing to grant the supplies till those grievances were redressed. The noble Lord called on the British Legislature to exercise a sovereign power and interfere with the House of Assembly in its control over the revenues of the province. Now, had the noble Lord any right to do so? He denied that the British Legislature was sovereign in Canada with regard to money affairs. The first question was one of sovereignty. According to the constitution of Canada, the rights, privileges, and powers of the House of Assembly in regard to Canada were in every respect similar to the rights, privileges, and powers of this House with regard to the King. They were founded on precisely the same principle—namely, that the Representatives of the people should alone determine the mode and manner in which the money levied from the community ought to be appropriated. By the 18th Geo. 3rd, this principle was acknowledged with regard to all the colonies, and 31st Geo. 3rd, and 1st and 2nd Wm. 4th specially asserted it with reference to Canada. The Lower Assembly was supreme in money affairs. With that supremacy the noble Lord wished now to interfere. He at-
 1332 1333
 Mr. Richards  did not think it a burlesque to inquire into the expenditure of a sum amounting to 500,000 l.
 Mr. Grote  spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker, the subject on which I am about to address you, stands described in your paper of notices for this evening. It is one which I have already more than once submitted to your attention, and I propose on the present occasion to move, as I did last Session, for leave to bring in a Bill for taking votes by Ballot, at elections for Members of Parliament. Impressed as I am, Sir, with a deep conviction of the importance of the measure which I recommend, I entreat your patient attention while I set forth the grounds of my recommendation; and I shall promise neither to detain you for any great length of time, nor to overstep by one hair's breadth the strict limits of the subject. It is not my intention to trouble you with the details of the Bill, which I should propose, if leave were granted to me, to lay upon the table of the House. I shall content myself with stating, in general terms, that there are no great or insurmountable difficulties in providing effectual machinery for carrying the principle of the Ballot into execution. It is easy to devise means of rendering the process of voting by Ballot so short and so simple, that no voter in the community, however uninstructed, can be at all embarrassed in performing it; while at the same time full security is taken that the act of voting in the case of every voter shall be entirely secret and un-discoverable. Though I am perfectly prepared to enter into these explanations of detail, when the convenient season shall arrive, I think it best to omit them for the present; the more so, as I could not perform the task without occupying more of your valuable time than I am at all entitled to demand. Sir, if I were discussing the comparative advantage of open or secret suffrage, considered simply and exclusively as modes of voting, I should be enabled to prove to you that the Ballot, considered
 9 Thoughts on the Causes of the present Discontents "It is material to us to be represented really and  bona fide, 10 ens rationis, 11 Edinburgh Review 12 13 hœc mea sunt, veteres migrate coloni Blackwood's Magazine, Quarterly Review, 14 "When we observe the diabolical spirit with which the Church of our forefathers and the glorious constitution of our country is assailed, and see that our enemies are banded together to raze them to the dust, we think that the present list of the supporters of Church and State principles in the town of Cambridge is not altogether uncalled for. We believe that many whose names do not appear in this list have deserted the ranks of our opponents, and joined ours; but as their opinions are not upon record, we do not think ourselves justified in making them public at present, although, in a short time, we hope to have the pleasure of doing so; as the time cannot be far distant when the reckless imbeciles, who changed their theoretical motto of peace, retrenchment, and reform, to the practical one of place, pension, and plunder, who now goad with tyrannic cruelty our starving countrymen must yield to make way for better and more honest men. An election will then take place, and, our friends shall have a new, and, we doubt not, a much amended list of the Conservative tradesmen of this borough, as speedily as possible after the poll is taken; the result of which we fear not, as truth must triumph, justice must prevail." 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 sine spe vel pretio. 26 "Ask, where's the North? At York, 'tis on the Tweed; In Scotland, at the Orcades, and there At Greenland, Zembla, or the Lord knows where." 27 28 hic murus aheneus esto 29 30 31 32 33
 Mr. Poulter  believed, that there were few hon. Members of that House who had received so many cordial congratulations upon their success, from those who had been compelled to vote against him as he had received; he therefore could with confidence assert, that no man had a stronger personal interest in the establishment of the Ballot than he had. It was his strong conviction, however, that before Conceding the principle of secret voting, the House should previously exhaust all other means which were likely to secure to the voters of this country the free exercise of their political rights. The hon. Member for London had put forward statements which he considered quite untenable. The hon. Member had, for instance, drawn an analogy between vote by ballot, and sealed letters. But there was the greatest possible distinction between them; for while the voter would almost of necessity be obliged to declare for whom he voted, no man who had written a sealed letter could be called upon to state its contents, so long as he chose to keep them within his own bosom. He admitted that threats and intimidation had taken place at elections throughout the country, but he must tell the hon. Member for London, when he presented the report to which he had referred to the House, as containing nothing but what might be relied on, that he was going much farther than the case would warrant. The Committee from which that report emanated, had sat with all the form which a judicial inquiry demanded, but without the means of arriving at a judicial conclusion; and for this reason, that every particle of evidence was taken behind the backs of the parties concerned. Persons had stated
 36 dicta 37 38
 Mr. Hall  had heard the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's speech with some degree of pleasure, inasmuch as he felt confident every other means of protecting the voters of the country than some such system as the Ballot would fail, and that they should have the hon. Member ranked amongst its strongest supporters. Other plans, however, had been tried for giving full protection to the voter, and failed, and to collect evidence on that point, the Intimidation Committee had been appointed. The hon. Member who had made the motion for that Committee had said, that he thought he should be able to advise a plan by which they could effectually get rid of the Ballot. He (Mr. Hall) observed that he was willing to meet him upon that subject, but no such plan had been advised, and he was quite sure that any man who looked through the evidence contained in the Report of that Committee would readily admit, that it afforded sufficient reason why his hon. Friend, the Member for London, should again come forward and propose a plan which nobody was particularly wedded to, if any other were proposed likely to afford a better or more substantial remedy. His hon. Friend, the Member for Shaftesbury, had stated, that the evidence given before the Committee was given upon hearsay, and without a personal knowledge of the facts. He could, however, state of his own personal knowledge instances of intimidation which had occurred in the boroughs he had the honour to represent. In canvassing one of these boroughs, voters had said to him, "How do you get on in your canvass? we cannot vote for you, but we hope you will beat us." If the supporters of this measure were again defeated on this occasion, he hoped his hon. Friend, the Member for London, would come forward Session after Session with the same question, convinced as he (Mr. Hall) was, that some such protection as the Ballot was absolutely necessary for the voter. He was certain that every supporter of the Ballot in that House would readily abandon it, if any other plan likely to produce the same effect, and to be equally satisfactory to the country, were proposed.
 39
 Mr. Jephson  said, that he meant to support the motion of the hon. Member for London. The only security against great and overpowering influence which could be proposed was the Ballot. The fears respecting the effect of the Ballot were, that it would do away with aristocratic influence. If the Ballot was calculated to do away with the proper influence of character and talent he should not be an advocate of it; but if it only did away with the power of rank and wealth, then its effect would be most desirable. In his opinion the Ballot would put an end to the outcry for universal suffrage. From his experience he could say, that intimidation was often practised by the people against the landlords, and in such cases the Ballot would afford protection to the landlords and the electors in his interest against such a system of intimidation. Another effect of the Ballot would be, that it would give the voter an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the politics of the different candidates. That would be no mean advantage, because, as the system at present stood, the voter was carried away by popular feeling, or by some other influence in recording his vote. He supported the Ballot with all his heart, because he believed, if adopted, it would be the most valuable been which could be conferred on the voter.
 Mr. Elphinstone  observed, that the real question for the House to determine on the present occasion was, by what method the elective franchise might be most safely, independently, and properly exercised by those upon whom the privilege had been conferred, and in what manner it could be best made available so as to secure the election of the candidate who possessed the real confidence and the wishes of the majority of the constituency whose suffrages were sought. Believing as he did that the adoption of the Vote by Ballot would deprive landlords of undue influence over their tenants, and prevent temptation on the one hand and intimidation on the other, he should certainly support the motion of the hon. Member for the City of London. He wished to see the vote of the poor man made equally independent as that of the rich man, and that object never could be attained except by giving the poor man the protection of the Ballot. The public looked with vast interest to the decision of
 40
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that if the debate on this question had to-night taken the usual course, and that after an hon. Member had spoken on one side, and that he should have been followed by another hon. Member on the other side, he (Mr. V. Smith) would not have risen at present to address the House. The question of the Ballot had been carried about the country by its advocates and urged as the test of liberal principles, and under the notion that its adoption would lead to the extension of liberal opinions. In that proposition he (Mr. V. Smith) must beg to differ. He would admit to the hon. Member for the City of London, that when he gave his vote in favour of the Reform Bill, he did so most sincerely, wishing that the person upon whom the suffrage was bestowed should be a free, independent, and sincere voter, but he attached a very different meaning to an independent vote from that applied to it by the hon. Member who had brought forward the motion now before the House. He could not conceive any man would imagine but that the vote given in public, before the public, and for a public man, was infinitely more independent than the vote given in a private society. The existence of the system of the Ballot in the clubs and in private societies afforded no reason for its adoption on great public questions and occasions. Everybody knew that feelings, motives, and passions actuate a man in giving his vote in secret in a club, which he would be ashamed to own when called upon to record his vote upon a public matter. It had been urged that the Ballot would afford a protection, both from intimidation and against temptation, to the poorer classes of electors. He contended that under the Ballot system intimidation would be much greater than at present? He wanted to know from the hon. Member for the City of London, how a person entitled to the franchise was to form his opinions upon great questions— opinions which alone made his vote valuable—but by attending public meetings and discussions upon subjects interesting
 41 42
 Mr. Bernal  having never given an opinion on the subject, was reluctant to let this motion go to a division, without stating his views. It appeared to him that hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the question were equally disposed to place too much reliance upon the force and accuracy of their arguments and observations; and he was, therefore, anxious to see the subject handled in a practical point of view. He was sorry that his hon. Friend, whom he believed to be a man of steady and sincere opinions, had expressed himself to be satisfied that the ballot could not operate as a check upon that tyranny which was too often exercised by landlords over their tenants in the course of contested elections, and that, therefore, it need not be granted. Now, he was desirous, as a re-
 43 44
 Mr. Borthwick  expressed his entire disapproval of the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for the City of London, chiefly on the ground that it would prove utterly ineffective towards the accomplishment of the objects which the advocates of the measure seemed to contemplate. It would not promote the purity of election. If the hon. Member for the City of London would take 100 Americans and 100 English voters, would he find the Americans purer than the Englishmen? The Ballot
 45
 Dr. Lushington  was induced to address a few observations to the House in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Northampton, who had processed himself to be the strenuous advocate of liberal opinions, and yet he had opposed the Ballot, and that, too, on a ground which appeared most extraordinary to him—namely, that the Ballot was calculated to stop the progress of liberal opinions; His hon. Friend had professed his anxiety to conform to that which was the great object and purpose of the Reform Bill—namely, to confer on those to whom the elective franchise was given the free and independent right of exercising that franchise. But then, said the hon. Member for Northampton, that Bill was never intended to take away from the people the means of forming just political opinions. He was a little struck by that remark, and he was inclined to ponder in his mind what were those ways and means which were indispensably necessary to enable a man to give his vote with integrity. If he understood them rightly, they Were included in accurate information and the right of public discussion. But how had the hon. Gentleman arrived at the conclusion that the Ballot would deprive any man of those advantages? There were three ways of influencing a man to vote—by argument, by intimidation, or by bribery. If he were addressed by argument, the matter must be left to his own judgment; if intimidation were attempted, the man would be deprived of his power as a free agent; if bribery was resorted to, then the ballot gave him the
 46 47
 Viscount Howick  said, the whole of the arguments which had been used in support of the proposition of the hon. Member for London were designed to prove that a great deal of intimidation and improper influence on the minds of voters existed at the present moment, and took for granted that all who were anxious to correct those evils must necessarily be advocates for the Ballot. Now he begged leave entirely to dissent from this mode of putting the question. He freely acknowledged with the hon. Member for London, that the evils of which he complained did prevail to a very considerable degree, and he entirely and cordially concurred with him in the sincerest possible desire to put them down. The hon. Member for the City of London could not possibly be more anxious for the accomplishment of that desirable object than he was. But the real question which the House had to discuss and to determine was this,— would the means which the hon. Member proposed be effectual for that object, and in effecting that object would they not be attended with other disadvantageous consequences which would greatly outweigh any peculiar benefit they might confer? He did not deny that there might be some advantages attending the introduction of the Vote by Ballot; but they should endeavour to compare its advantages and disadvantages,—they should balance the two fairly together, and make up their minds on the result of the comparison. After having given the best and most careful consideration in his power to this important subject, he confessed, in his opinion, the disadvantages still preponderated; he did not
 48 49 50 51 Question. 52 53 54
 Mr. Charles  Buller returned his sincere thanks to the hon. Gentlemen opposite for having honoured them with so full an attendance this evening, though it did not appear that their object was the discussion of the question, inasmuch as they had observed a magnanimous silence, and
 55 56 57 58 59 60 61
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had a few observations to address to the House on the motion then before them. Before he offered those observations to their notice
 62 63 64 65 66
 Mr. Grote,  in reply, said, it was not his intention to abuse the patience of the House, having already drawn so largely upon it. He must, however, confess, when he followed the whole course of the debate, that he saw very much to congratulate the friends of the Ballot upon. He saw very little to regret, or very much to rejoice at. From the determined silence of the Gentlemen opposite, this question would go forth to the world, deprived of having that which was so valuable to it—their opposition. It was a subject of great rejoicing to him, when he recollected the altered tone of his Majesty's Ministers. It was a subject of great rejoicing to him when he took notice of the altered manner of the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with a view to this subject. He did not mean to say they had changed their opinion, but their opposition to this important measure was on the ground of time, and not on the ground of principle. Their conclusions were the same, but their premises totally different. He was authorised in asserting from the speech he had made in the early part of the evening, that the main points of his argument remained untouched. No one who had addressed the House had ventured to deny that intimidation existed, not even the hon. Member for Evesham, the representative of the evening of the mighty party—the Tories. He had not even ventured to deny that intimidation existed, and had done so to a frightful extent under his own eyes. Where was the effective remedy for this? Why, in the Ballot, and that alone. He knew of no alternative that had been suggested, except the one put forth by the hon. Member for Shaftesbury, which was most completely demolished by the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, who showed that anything in the nature of a penal Act, could not be car-
 67
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  before the House divided, wished to say a few words in explanation. The hon. Member, in his reply, had said that he was happy to observe the altered tone of his Majesty's Ministry on the subject. If that observation was intended to apply to him, he begged to say, that his arguments against the present motion were founded on precisely the same grounds as his opposition of last year.
 Viscount Howick  said, that the last time he had addressed the House upon the subject, in 1835, his arguments were precisely the same, together with the grounds of his opposition, as they were at present. His objections were founded then, as now, upon principle, and not upon time.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it seemed to him that the hon. and learned Member had taken the trouble to make a speech in opposition to the vote he had just given on the question of the Ballot. He (Mr. O'Connell) was obliged to the hon. Member for his vote, but he assured him he much preferred it to his speech. As to the Bill itself, he hoped it would have a retrospective effect, so that those who had heretofore been guilty of bribery in any shape whatever should be incapacitated from afterwards sitting in that House; or if a
 72
 Mr. Francis Baring  had no objection to furnish the returns asked for by the hon. and gallant Member, provided that he would so limit the details as to make the preparation of the returns easy. It was not for himself that he spoke, but for the clerks who would have to expend much labour in reducing to a compendious form the entries and minutes in their books. Those clerks, however, were most anxious on every occasion to comply with the wishes of any hon. Member who might
 74 l. l. 75
 Colonel Sibthorp  had a great respect for the clerks of the Treasury, and was only sorry that the heads of departments did not perform their duties with a zeal equal to that of their subordinates. He must, however, insist on having returns more distinct than those which he had hitherto obtained.
 Colonel Sibthorp,  in rising to move for a return of the various commissions which had been issued by the Government, said his object was to show the country what little faith ought to be attached to those professions about economy which had been so frequently made and repeated by the present liberal Government. He had so long back as the 9th of February in last year moved for a return of the number of commissions issued, but was unable to obtain it until the middle of November last. The cause of the unwillingness to produce that document was manifest; and on examining it, he soon perceived that the object of the Government was to mystify and evade inquiry. In that return the Record Commission had not been included, under the pretence that it did not come within the description contained in his motion. Nevertheless that Record Commission continued to exist to the present day, and had cost the country no less a sum than upwards of 700,000 l. 73 l.
 Mr. Roebuck  would really put it to the House whether it was not a burlesque, a farce, and a most expensive farce withal, for hon. Members to demand returns of this nature for their mere amusement.
 Mr. Patrick M. Stewart  begged to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, if he had arranged with the Dutch government the terms of the treaty of 1824, and if an indemnity had been insisted upon with respect to the excessive duties charged? He wished to know, first, whether he had been enabled to prevail upon the Dutch government to adjust the duties, present and prospective, in strict conformity with the terms of that treaty; and secondly, whether he had been enabled to convince the Dutch government that they were bound in honour and fair dealing (the latter they should understand) to refund the excessive duties charged, amounting to half a million sterling?
 Sir Robert Peel  presumed, that the noble Lord would not have the least objection to lay the tariff upon the table. The grounds of the treaty that had been alluded to were, that where these goods were imported free from Holland 6 per cent was to be charged upon goods brought by British vessels; and where 6 per cent was charged upon goods brought by the Dutch, double that was to be charged on the British. Was the noble Lord prepared to lay the new tariff in an official form before the House?
 Mr. A. Trevor  was of opinion that the country would feel itself much indebted to his hon. and gallant Friend, and would repudiate the offensive imputation that the motion then before the House was a burlesque.
 Viscount Palmerston : The treaty was, that goods imported into Java by British subjects, and by British vessels, should pay twice as much duty as goods imported by the subjects, and in the vessels of Holland; and where there was no duty levied upon articles imported by the subjects and in the vessels of Holland, there should only be a duty of 6 per cent levied on
 8
 Viscount Palmerston,  in answer to his hon. Friend, regretted to say, that the old
 7
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to be called upon to oppose the proceedings of his Majesty's Ministers, but he considered that the present was one of the most unwarrantable proceedings he had ever witnessed in that House, with the exception of the Coercion Bill for Ireland. With that proceeding his Majesty's Ministers ought not to be allowed to go on, and if they attempted to do that, he at least should state fairly his opinion as to what were the results likely to follow from it. Believing that their proceeding was a violation of every thing that ought to be sacredly respected he rose to address that House. The question then before them was one that appeared to him to involve civil war. It behoved every person who entertained such an opinion to speak out fairly upon the question, and if possible to avert the impending danger. That the danger was great must be manifest from all they had heard, from all they knew, and from the documents upon the table. He considered that before they called for a coercive measure against any class of society, and particularly against the British subjects in Lower Canada, they should satisfy the House that those persons had been justly governed, or that they had not given them cause for complaint, or having given them such cause, that it ceased to exist—that they had adopted the necessary measures to remove the grounds for discontent, and bring about conciliation and a proper understanding between the colony and the mother country. What, he asked, was the value of her colonies to England, if she treated them as conquered provinces? What would be their value if they were to require continually the application of phy-
 77 78 79
 Sir G. Grey  said, that the hon. Member was mistaken in stating that Lord John Russell had used those words. What his noble Friend said was, that whereas the Act of 1791 did not give the power of dismissal except in the case of offences against the Government, he would introduce a Bill to alter that enactment by giving the Crown the power of dismissal in the case of persons who should be convicted of a misdemeanour.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Crown had this power without the interference of Parliament, and had used it over and over again. This was merely throwing out a tub to the whale. There was no advantage whatever in it; and to put this forward as a counterpoise to the privileges they were about to deprive the people of Canada of was most unjust. The petition to which he had before referred consisted of sixteen pages; it was presented to that
 80 81 82 l. 83 84 l., 85 86
 Sir George Grey  begged to observe, that the Government did not wish to enforce payments contrary to any of the conditions with which they were accompanied when last they were voted in 1833. The resolution did not propose to pay any items which had not been sanctioned by the Assembly in 1833.
 Mr. Hume  was speaking of the vote of 1836, when the conditions in question were introduced. Would the House of Commons, would the Government of this country, pretend to deprive the House of Assembly of their right and power to impose conditions in these matters? If they did, shame would stand on all their faces and all their heads. The Colonial Secretary admits the intention of the Government to do this injustice. The proceeding altogether was most unjustifiable, and while the people of this country were struggling for their rights, he would ask, were they not bound to assist the colonies, and protect them against oppression to the utmost of their power? He trusted the House of Commons would never sanction such a shameful exercise of power; he trusted the House would recollect that, some years ago, when supplies were voted by the House of Assembly for six months, and that a sum, of 6,351 l. 87 l.,
 Mr. Hume  said, in continuation, that while the House was sitting and deliberating on the liberties of six hundred thousand of their fellow-citizens, it might have been expected that more than fifty Members would have been present. The hon. Member, after adverting to a declaration of the people of Canada, in which they set forth their grievances, and prayed for redress, said, the Government, in spite of the declarations and petitions of the people of Canada, was determined to persevere, and called upon the House of Commons to assist in passing a Coercion Bill against the House of Assembly to enable it to trample on the rights of the people of Canada. The language of the noble Lord amounted to that; and the language of the noble Lord was the language of all the Cabinet Ministers. They had made it a Cabinet question—they had all agreed in a measure for oppressing the people of Canada; and they called on that House to aid and join them in countenancing such illegal proceedings. If the majority of that House were to be the tools of the Cabinet in this transaction, it was high time for him, and those who acted with him, to tell the people of Canada what to do—to tell them that they themselves must provide the remedy. Their prayers here had been refused—they
 88 89 90 The Times; "Before closing their report the Committee feel it their duty to call the attention of your hon. House and the country to the fact that the petition of Mr. Duncombe was presented to the House of Commons by Mr. Joseph Hume, a Member of the Imperial Parliament for the county of Middlesex, and that that Gentleman appears to have been chosen as the agent through whom Mr. Duncombe and Mr. Robert Baldwin have conducted their communications with the Colonial-office. And it further appears from letters of Mr. Hume addressed to some of the Ministers of the Crown, that he is desirous of representing himself as the agent, or, at all events, as being authorised to express the sentiments, of the people of Upper Canada on the subject of their political feelings, and the public affairs of the province. Your Committee are of opinion, that the honour and character of his Majesty's loyal subjects in this province require that it should be promptly and emphatically declared by their representatives that Mr. Hume is among the last men they would select to advocate their cause, or represent their feelings or wishes to
 91 "Bryanston-square, March 29. "My dear Sir—I lately received files of the  Vindicator Reformer "The Government and the majority of the assembly appear to have lost the little portion of common sense and the prudence which society in general now possess, and they sacrifice the greatest of public principles in gratifying a paltry and mean revenge against you. "Your triumphant election on the 16th, and ejection from the assembly on the 17th, must hasten that crisis which is fast approaching in the affairs of the Canada's, and which will terminate in independence and freedom from the baneful domination of the mother country, and the tyrannical conduct of a small and despicable faction in the colony. "I regret to think that the proceedings of Mr. Stanley, which manifest as little knowledge of mankind as they prove his ignorance of the
 92 "Mr. Stanley must be taught that the follies and wickedness of Mr. Pitt's Government, in the commencement of the French revolution, cannot be repeated now, either at home or abroad, without results very different from that which then took place. The proceedings between 1772 and 1782 in America ought not to be forgotten, and to the honour of the Americans, and for the interest of the civilised world, let their conduct and the result be ever in view. "I remain, yours sincerely, "JOSEPH HUME. "P.S. The people in lower Canada are taking the means of forcing their affairs on the Government, and will I hope succeed." 93 94 in toto. 95
 Mr. William Gladstone  would not have been desirous to trespass on the attention of the House upon the present occasion had the case which his Majesty's Government had brought forward been such as to render it incumbent on any one who was connected with or took an interest in the Canada's, be his political opinions what they might, to render to the Government every support in his power. The case before them was not one which bound them as a party, and the question which they were called to decide that night was whether they would consent to the separation of Lower Canada from the empire. He was not one of those who were to be frightened out of an opinion by the vote which he might feel called upon to give, or to hesitate upon the alternative on which he would act when the separation of Lower Canada might follow from not adopting the resolutions which were proposed by his Majesty's Government. All colonies were
 96 97 98 99 100 101 Minerve: 102 103 104 105
 Mr. Labouchere  came down to the House prepared to give a reluctant and silent, but he must add, a decided vote in favour of the resolutions proposed to the House by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. But some things had occurred in the course of the discussion which had made him desirous of stating, in a few words, the grounds upon which that vote would be given, It had fallen to his lot, since he had had the honour of a seat in Parliament, to call upon the House for the expression of its opinion, and even to adopt resolutions relating to the colony, the affairs of which were this night under discussion. His object had been to retain these colonies to the mother country, by every means in our power, as long as we could; but, above all, that to the last hour during which that connexion lasted we should act towards these colonies liberally and justly, so that whenever the moment of separation might come, were it sooner or were it later, we should be able, in the face of the world and of posterity, to have a good case, and not to stand before either convicted of having, as far as we were concerned, neglected the duty of a mother country towards her colonies. In
 106 107 108 109 Roebuck; 110 111
 Lord Stanley  trusted before he proceeded to the subject matter of discussion, that he might be permitted to take notice of one circumstance, which, although in this country it would produce no effect, might be misunderstood, and probably, from what had taken place, was calculated to be misunderstood, in the colonies; namely, that that House of Commons was indifferent to the welfare of that country the affairs of which they were then discussing, and with which they were connected by so many ties; and that, in short, that House regarded with indifference all colonial discussions. He alluded to a subject which probably few hon. Members then present were acquainted with; he meant, that at the fatal hour of half-past seven an attempt was made to count out the House. What did hon. Members mean by cheering? Was not the gallery cleared? Was not the House counted?—thanks to the hon. and learned Member for Bath —and were there not sufficient Members present to constitute a House? And why was this done? Was it not to show how small a number of Members were present at the discussion on the affairs of Canada? But he begged to remind hon. Members of the state of the House the night before last on this subject for in his life he had never seen on the discussion of a subject of
 112 113 114 115 seriatim; Hear, hear 116 ad captandum, l. 117 118 119 120 Chancellor of the Exchequer: "We are far advanced in the fourth year since there has been any appropriation of pro-
 121 122 123 124 125 étrangers, 126
 Viscount Howick  confessed he had never heard any speech of his noble Friend with greater pain than the one he had just concluded. It was much to be regretted it should go forth to the people of Canada that a person who had deservedly so much weight and influence and authority in this House and in the country, had held language so completely the reverse of conciliatory, and conceived in so arbitrary a spirit. That such an individual should recommend measures of the arbitrary character of those recommended by his noble Friend he regretted deeply, and more especially for the sake of his noble Friend himself. But it was some consolation to him for the pain he felt at this speech, that he trusted it would act in some degree as an antidote to the very florid speech of the hon. Member for Bath. He trusted the hon. Gentleman would begin to feel that they were not quite such tyrants as
 127 128 l., 129 130 "With respect to the working of the mea-sure, which, in default of any other, we have been forced to recommend, I cannot entertain the hope that, unless combined with others of a very firm and judicious, but at the same time, healing character, it will prove either efficacious or safe. The Assembly, by the suspension of the Act 1 and 2 Will. 4th, will be deprived, it is true, of a portion of its power, but it will still remain in possession of ample means of thwarting the Government, and these means we may expect to see it exert with an unscrupulous hostility. The suspension of this Act is moreover the measure which they expect, for they had due notice of it in 1834, and for which they, to a certain extent, are prepared. The Assembly, even when deprived of the revenues of the 14th Geo. 3d, will retain its control over funds nearly twice as great as those in the hands of the Executive; and although the House may not have power to dispose of them at its discretion, it will, at any rate, be able to lock them up, and especially to prevent the application of them to any purpose favourable to the Government, or to the interests of the British party. It may also refuse to pass Bills required by the commercial interest, such, for instance, as Bills for the renewal of the charters of the Quebec and Montreal banks, both of which will expire in July, 1837. When I consider, therefore, the bitter hostility or rather fury, with which the Assembly will be animated against the British Government, and against British interests; the invectives which, under the direction of its practised leaders, it will pour forth against England; the power it will possess of spreading disaffection within the province, and inviting interference from without, I am at a loss to imagine how the Government can be carried on with advantage, and I cannot help fearing that we shall, ultimately, be driven to abandon the country with all the shame of failure upon us, or to maintain it at a cost infinitely beyond its value." 131 132 133 134 135 136
 Mr. Cressett Pelham   was understood to say that he saw the Ministry were deter-
 137
 Mr. Leader  had a few observations to make upon the speech delivered by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire. That noble Lord ought to have remembered what a Minister of the Crown had said in the last century, when he proposed for the consideration of the House, measures to be [applied to these North American provinces. "He hoped," he said, "that they would enter into the discussion deliberately and dispassionately, and have no recourse to violent language" —that they would not have anything of the " animorum incendia.
 Mr. Roebuck  wanted to know if the House had come to the determination of proceeding with the resolution without having before them the evidence given in 1834? He must have an answer to that question before they proceeded to the next resolution. He would again ask the committee whether they would decide on this question without having the entire of the evidence before them? 138
 Sir G. Grey  said, that after this division, he trusted no further opposition would be thrown in the way of the views of Government on this subject.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that a direct appeal having been made to him by the noble Lord opposite, in reference to the evidence of the Committee on the affairs of Canada, upon which he believed this question greatly depended, he felt called upon to demand the publication of that evidence. Till they were in possession of it he should oppose further proceedings. He knew the impression which had been made on the House by the observations of the noble Lord, an impression which must make itself speedily felt out of doors; and he maintained that under these circumstances the House ought to allow him to have the evidence upon which he so much relied, and not in the absence of it to vote away the liberties of a whole people. The hon. Baronet, alluding to the large, the overwhelming majority by which the ministerial measure had been carried to-night, expressed a hope that no further opposition would be made to it. He begged the hon. Baronet to recollect that he (Mr. Roebuck) went out in as small a minority on the Irish Coercion Bill. He moved that the Chairman do report progress.
 Mr. Robinson , as a Member of the Committee in question, begged to state why he was opposed to the publication of the evidence adduced before it; namely, that it was an  ex-parte
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged the House would consider that they really had before them all the information they could possibly require. Still it was not his wish, and he had no disposition to conceal from the House any one public document which they pleased to call for, but hon. Members would recollect that the subject of Canada was noticed in the King's Speech, and the hon. Member for Bath had been aware, from the commencement of the Session, of the existence of this evidence, and if he had thought its production material to the matter at issue, he might have moved for it. If he considered the papers before the House incomplete without the evidence taken before the Committee, he should have moved for the production of these documents. It was quite true, that the case was somewhat varied by the circumstances which had occurred in the course of this discussion. Allusion had indeed been made to the evidence taken by the Committee, but more with the view of pointing out the different courses of proceeding of the respective Governments than for the purpose of explaining the subject matter of this particular resolution. He was disposed to do anything that the hon. Member wished, that did not amount to a question of mere delay, and nothing but delay. Before the House broke up that night, he would move for the production of the papers referred to, and they should be laid on the table of the House the next day. He was reminded that the original papers had been burnt in the fire which consumed the Houses of Parliament; but the Members of the Canada Committee were in possession of the documents relating to the question, unless indeed any of them had parted with their copy. He had his own minutes of evidence, and if the House would permit him, he would lay them on the table of the House the next day, for the use of hon. Members. The hon. and learned Member for Bath, no doubt, was in possession of his own minutes of evidence, and the copy which he would lay on the table would be all that was necessary, as that evidence
 140
 Mr. Harvey  did not rise at the present moment to enter upon the general merits of the question, but to urge the importance of placing on the table of the House, the evidence upon which the noble Lord had laid so great stress. It was due to him—it was due to the House, which had to decide—it was due to British interests, and above all, to the feelings of Canada; for it had been argued, and the evidence was alluded to in support of the charge, that the people of Canada had violated her express engagements, and thus brought about that state of things which originated the present measure. He admitted and admired the spirit of the noble Lord, it was bold, frank, and eloquent, of all his many able speeches, it was one of the best; yet worth depended mainly upon the accuracy of his representations, of the evidence to which he had referred, and upon which he had dwelt with great earnestness; and this evidence ought to be forthwith adduced, and before we affirmed the first proposition, which was, in fact, the essence of the whole question—To decide first, and hear and read evidence after deciding, was that species of one-sided Legislation, that ought at all times to be deprecated; but upon a vast question like that now before the House, involving as it did the momentous issue of peace or war—we ought to be peculiarly solicitous to give to our decision the weight of sober thought and an enlightened judgment. It was important to observe that the resolution now proposed to be affirmed, did not propound a general principle, which the House was to affirm or deny—that would require no evidence given before a Committee, but the House was invoked to affirm that an elective council in Canada was inexpedient, which implied altogether a question of fact, and thus rendered testimony of whatever kind
 141
 Mr. Ward  observed that the greater the weight which attached to the speech of the noble Lord, the more essential it was, that the evidence which had been given before the Committee should be produced before they could determine so vital a question as this.
 Lord Stanley  begged to say, that he laid no great stress on the evidence taken before the Committee. He did not rest his arguments on that evidence, but he showed that it contained the whole of the information which was now derived from the Commissioners' report. He had mainly alluded to that evidence in order to show that the Government had followed out the recommendations, and he wished it had been done sooner, which had been formerly given, and to state what were the views and objects which were openly avowed by the parties represented by the hon. Member for Bath.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the noble Lord had already forgotten one part of his speech, namely, that which related to a charge of a breach of faith on the part of the Canadian Legislature. Now, in the evidence, there was proof that the noble Lord had quite misunderstood that part of it. There was no stipulation of the kind mentioned by the noble Lord, on the part of the Canadian people; and if there had been, they had more than fulfilled it. Now when they came to ground a resolution on the conduct of that assembly, he claimed it as a matter of right, and not as a matter of courtesy, that all the evidence that could be produced should be laid before the tribunal which pretended to come to a decision on the subject. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had also forgotten something which his Government had done. When he applied for the evidence it was first promised and then refused, but now that he had made out a case that touched the House, the right hon. Gentleman was ready to produce it. The Chancellor of the Exchequer's conduct to him had been somewhat unhandsome. What did the right hon. Gentleman mean
 142
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer . Yes, I have.
 Mr. Roebuck . Has the noble Lord got his?
 Lord Stanley  intimated that he had.
 Mr. Roebuck  doubted whether the hon. Member for Worcester was in possession, of his. [Mr. Robinson replied in the affirmative.] He was only doing this to show how unhandsomely he had been treated; and he would now only say, that if ever he had to ask any favour from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he should be very sorry to be compelled to do, he would beg of that right hon. Gentleman when he had any thing to say of him to say it with fairness and candour, and he need not say, with boldness, instead of throwing out insinuations against him.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked that the hon. Gentleman and himself had been at issue on this point before, and if he would take the trouble of referring to the records of the discussions which then took place, he would find that what he now said was exactly what he had stated before. The originals having been destroyed, the evidence was not strictly within the reach of the House; but he tendered his own copy, and the copy of any other hon. Member, for the purpose of being laid on the table and made available for all the purposes of a discussion. If he were disposed to adhere to mere form, he should say, that the House had no means of obtaining that evidence; but so far was he from depriving the Ho se of all the information that could be required on the subject, that he suggested that if this demand were not made use of for the sake of delay how the difficulty might be obviated. In getting over that, he was quite willing to give every assistance. His noble Friend (Lord Stanley) had, as it appeared to him,
 143
 Captain Berkeley  was glad to see the result of this division, as it shewed that delay, and delay only, was the object, in endeavouring to wear out the patience of a large majority, and counting out the House. They had heard of the tyranny of a majority; but they saw what could be done by a miserable monopolising minority. His Majesty's Ministers would see what would be the consequence if they did not pursue a straightforward course. He hoped they would not attempt to conciliate or make friends of those who must be enemies.
 Mr. Hume  was for delay; delay was his object, on the principle laid down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and lest it should go forth to Canada, that the House had acted before it had all the information it ought to have. They were taking this
 144
 Colonel Thompson  was anxious to say, that he was for delay too. Delay was wholesome; he would give a guinea a minute for delay, if he could raise it. All thought, and especially all forethought, required time, and if time were not allowed, they could not come to a sound and safe conclusion.
 Colonel Thompson  thought, that in the case of a vessel being known to be decidedly not seaworthy, a sufficient security might be found in the natural reluctance which seamen would feel to trust their lives to such a conveyance. He did not, however, object to the principle of the Bill, but would be glad to see it referred to a Committee, for the purpose of pruning down the redundancies by which it was encumbered.
 Sir John R. Reed  only rose to express his astonishment at the observations of the hon. Member for Bridport, alleging that ships were lost purposely. He believed that such occurrences were at least extremely rare as he had never met with one.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that humanity was indebted to the hon. Member for bringing this question before the House, as it was only by the expression of public feeling they could hope to check the progress of one of the greatest evils the human mind could contemplate—namely, the addition of eight or nine slavery states. The revolt of Texas was founded upon nothing else than the abolition of slavery by the Mexican Government. The Mexican Government of 1824, pronounced that no one born in the territory of Mexico after that year should be born in slavery, and in 1829 they went further, and abolished slavery altogether, upon which immediately followed the revolt in the province of Texas. That revolt was actually the consequence of abolishing shivery in Mexico. The United States could not think of peopling that country
 199 200 l.,
 Colonel Thompson  said, what the noble Lord called revolt, other persons termed rebellion. If the British subjects who had settled in Portugal chose to seize a province or some of the strong places, then would the noble Lord have called such a proceeding a revolt? Or would he have expected the Portuguese nation to give it such a designation? Why should the noble Lord apply such a term to the rebellious Texians? Was it not beyond question that all the inhabitants of Texas were Americans, wherever the Americans went they carried their bad habits.
 "Ubi Camillus ibi Roma."
 Lord Dudley Stewart  could not say, that he had made up his mind on the subject; but he should like to see the Bill brought in. He should certainly support the motion of the hon. Gentleman for the reason which he had given.
 Lord Worsley  would vote for the introduction of the Bill; but begged not to be understood as pledging himself to its support.
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  concurred in many portions of the measure proposed by the hon. Member for Sheffield. He more particularly assented to that portion of it which related to the overlading of ships. By this system he believed, that vessels were not un frequently rendered so top-heavy as to be almost unavoidably lost—a subject than which none could be more proper for Parliamentary inquiry He (Mr. Chapman) was as strongly interested in the maritime commerce of
 189
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  did not rise, on the part of the Government, to offer any opposition to the bringing in of this Bill. He felt that it was due to the hon. Member for Sheffield, and to the report of the Committee, to allow the Bill to be brought in. He confessed, however, that he should look for the Bill with some curiosity, because, not only from what had fallen from the hon. Member for Sheffield, but from the report of the Committee, he should be inclined to think, that this Bill would enter into a great variety of subjects, and would attempt to legislate upon details which he did not believe susceptible of legislation. The hon. Member for Sheffield had stated, that whilst this country enjoyed so large a portion of the commerce of the world, and so large a proportion of commercial marine, in comparison with other countries, they had not the same protection afforded by the Legislature. Now be would say, that this
 183 Buckingham: 184 l. l. 185
 Mr. Robinson  could not consent to the
 187 188
 Mr. George F. Young  begged to offer a few words, as otherwise some misapprehension might arise in consequence of an expression used by the hon. Member for Sheffield. He understood that hon. Member to say, that the Committee upon whose report this Bill was introduced were unanimous in the resolutions they had come to. As a Member of that Committee he begged to say, that they were not unanimous in their opinion, as he himself did not vote for many of them. Other members of the Committee entertained similar scruples, but they did not think it necessary to divide the Committee. The hon. Member for Sheffield seemed, by his Bill to endeavour to carry out his own preconceived opinions. He seemed throughout his observations to deprecate the present practice of marine insurances. Now, he begged to assure the House, that they could not
 186
 Mr. Warburton  was apprehensive that the constitution of a board for licensing masters of merchant vessels might be tantamount to the formation of a sort of corporation of masters, whose exertions, corresponding with their own interests, would be directed to the limitation of the list of masters to the smallest possible number. No man could dispute the fact, that great advantages had resulted from the system of insuring vessels; neither could it be doubted that it had been productive of very great evils. There was one security, however, against abuse to be found in the
 190
 Mr. Buckingham  said, in rising to call the attention of the House to the subject of which I have given notice, and to submit to their judgment the motion which I shall take the liberty to place in your hands, "for leave to bring in a Bill for the establishment of a Marine Board, and for the better regulation of the Merchant Shipping of the Kingdom," I have to ask the indulgence of the House, while I place before them the facts and arguments on which I shall presume to ask their acquiescence in granting leave to introduce the Bill proposed. The subject of the shipping interest has been so often before the House in various shapes, that it is unnecessary to speak of its importance, even were the question one which affected the shipping interest alone. But, in addition to the mere interest of the ship-owner, there is that of the nation at large, which is deeply injured by the annual loss of life and property at sea, which it is my object and my hope to see diminished. We have, indeed, a valuable recognition, in his Majesty's Speech delivered from the Throne at the opening of the last Session,
 165 166 l. 167 168 l. 169 l., 170 171 172 173 174 175 176 177 178 179 180 181 182
 Mr. Buckingham  wished to state in re-
 191
 Mr. Barlow Hoy , in rising to move for copies of certain correspondence connected with the province of Texas, said, that the recent conduct of the United States with reference to that province was a subject of too great importance to be over-looked by the British House of Commons. He believed the United States of America to be actuated by a desire of encroaching upon the dominions of adjoining powers in a southern direction. The interests of the British colonies situated in the Caribbean Sea, might become seriously affected in the event of these encroachments being made; and he for one, never could consent to the United States extending their boundary so as to occupy Texas, and ultimately, perhaps, to gain possession of Mexico. Under no circumstances could he give his sanction to this occupation. The Americans had said, that Cuba was so important an island that no European nation, except Spain, should be permitted to take possession of it. He (on the authority of Mr. Huskisson) would say, on the other hand, that the province of Texas was a province so important by its position to the commerce and the naval power of this country, as well as to the independence of Mexico, that upon no condition whatever should he allow it to come into the possession of any American power, with the exception of Mexico. When Mexico declared herself an independent state, Mr. Canning had entered into a treaty with that country, by which the Mexicans consented to abolish slavery in every portion of their dominions. This stipulation with regard to the abolition of slavery having been mutually agreed to between the contracting parties, Great Britain was bound to co-operate with Mexico, for the purpose of securing the desired abolition. It was, however, quite notorious that an importation of slaves to
 192 193
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  in reply said, that being convinced that the expression of opinion which had this evening been given upon the subject would not alone be productive of any effect in the quarter to which it was directed, he felt bound to press his motion.
 Mr. Fleming  said, that he was perfectly ready to afford every explanation, and perfectly willing to submit to any investi-
 162 bonâ fide
 Mr. Hardy  said, that all would agree in the principle of the proposition, that some places of recreation and amusement should be provided for the working population of large towns, and also for the inhabitants of rural districts; but he thought that a distinction should be made between inclosures of commons and what were called waste lands. Commons, not waste lands, were very often private property and if a part of them were reserved for public purposes some compensation should be made to those who had heretofore cultivated them.
 Mr. Brotherton  expressed his cordial concurrence in the motion, and rejoiced that the powerful aid and co-operation of the right hon. Baronet who had just addressed the House were likely to carry the plan into effect. The subject had been too long neglected by Parliament, but it was now likely at length to be carried out to its useful object.
 Mr. Hume  begged permission of the House to bring forward a motion, of which he had given notice, but which was last in the list. He did not think it would occasion any lengthened discussion. The motion was, a resolution which he hoped the House would adopt to the following effect. "That in all Inclosure Bills provision be made for leaving an open space sufficient for the purposes of exercise and recreation of the neighbouring population; provided, that in any case where the Committee on the Bill do not make such provision, they be required specially to report to the House their reasons for not complying with the orders of the House." No person can travel through the country without regretting that encroaching system of inclosures to which we are all witnesses. It is most desirable that some provision of the kind should be made for the recreation and amusement of the people in all cases, except where then shall appear to the Committee some extraordinary circumstances to warrant a contrary course.
 Mr. Hume , in rising to second the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Sheffield, begged to say that he was by no means friendly to the interference of the Legislature in commercial matters. It appeared to him, however, that a case had been made out by his hon. Friend which called loudly for Legislation. Whether the evils existed to the extent pointed out by his hon. Friend he was unable to say; but of this fact he was sure, that, for the pains and trouble which his hon. Friend had taken on this subject, the least that was due to him was to give him leave to bring in his Bill. It was a very strange anomaly that for every person who met his death by accident on shore, the law provided that there should be an inquiry before the coroner; but if 500 men perished at sea, unless their bodies were driven on shore, no provision whatever was made for inquiry as to how these lives had been lost. He thought it only just that his hon. Friend should have an opportunity of bringing in his Bill, and they would have a sufficient opportunity in its future stages of considering its details.
 Mr. Pease  expressed his conviction that this Bill, if introduced, would never be carried into a law. Until the vote by Ballot should be obtained, he, for one, would never consent to takeaway from the voters of this country the power to disfranchise themselves without giving offence. He repeated, he did not believe this measure would ever become the law of the land. As to the comparison which had been made in respect to county and borough voters, he could see no analogy between the two cases.
 Mr. Pease  was not opposed to the principle of insurances; but, at the same time he thought the subject required great and vigilant attention. At present it was too often the case that men were induced to join ships at two hours' notice, without any opportunity of examining into their seaworthiness, whose lives were thus recklessly exposed to danger. He thought that the dictates of humanity required that some attention should be devoted to this subject.
 Mr. Powell Buxton  said, the noble Lord had told the House that they should look rather to the effect of the treaty than to any interference on the part of the British Government; but of all the treaties he had ever met with, he had never seen one which had been so totally disregarded as the treaty alluded to by the noble Lord. If the noble Lord depended on it, he might be assured that the slave trade would ere long be introduced into the country of the Texians. He wished the American government to know that the people of England were deeply interested upon this subject. Perhaps there was no subject which so strongly animated the feelings of the people of England as that of a country in which slavery and the slave trade were being abolished. It was a matter of undoubted certainty that if measures were not taken to check the carrying on of this trade and the interference of America, the effect would be its establishment in the
 202
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  thought that it would best conduce to the convenience of the House if he were merely to ask leave to bring in a Bill respecting which he had given notice, and to postpone the discussion of it until the second reading. The hon. Gentleman, accordingly, moved for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal that portion of the Reform Act which requires the payment of rates and taxes in cities and boroughs as the condition of registration.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, he would state shortly the reasons upon which he founded the proposition that he had submitted to the House. When the Registration Act of last Session was in progress, he had moved that it be an instruction to the Committee to provide for the repeal of that portion of the Reform Act which required the payment of rates and taxes in cities and boroughs as the condition of registration, on the ground that it was unconstitutional in principle, and vexatious in practice. The Attorney-General, however, told him that the matter did not come within the scope of the Registration Bill; but that if he would make it the sub-
 204 l. l l. 205
 Mr. T. Duncombe  had a Petition to present from Benjamin Weaver, to which he hoped he should be allowed to call the attention of the House. It related to the subscription list delivered into that House by the promoters of the Westminster-bridge and Greenwich railway, and the petitioner complained that a number of individuals had signed that list who had no interest in the undertaking. This was a species of fraud which was daily increasing, and which demanded the serious consideration of the House; for unless some strong remedy was applied to check its further progress, it could not fail to be productive of the most disastrous consequences to those who were induced from an apparently respectable and well-subscribed list to embark their capital in railroad speculations. The petitioner stated, that several names appeared in the subscription list of the Westminster-bridge and Greenwich railway, whose united subscriptions amounted to 30,500 l., s., l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would trespass on the House for only a few moments. He had due respect for the motives and opinions of the hon. Gentleman, but when that hon. Gentleman said, that the clause in the Reform Act which he desired to repeal, was unconstitutional in principle, and vexatious in practice, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) must deny the fact. The principle on which the clause was founded was one of the earliest and best-established principles of the constitution, namely, that no man should enjoy his civil rights who did not discharge his civil obligations. With respect to the practice, if there were anything partial or vexatious in the manner in which the collectors performed their duty, that ought to be made the subject of inquiry. The collectors were not appointed by the Crown; and, therefore, the Ministers of the Crown were not responsible for the conduct of the collectors. They were appointed by authorities wholly independent of the Crown. When the hon. Gentleman admitted that a great number of the borough voters were disqualified in consequence of their own want of punctuality, how could he proceed to make the carelessness of such persons a ground for proposing an alteration in the Reform Act? The Reform Act stated, that no householder should be admitted to register who had not paid his rates and taxes. According to the hon. Gentleman, a great number of the householders neglected to pay their rates and taxes. Now, surely, the neglect of those to whom a law applied was a strange reason for proposing a change in an Act of Parliament, and that Act the Reform Act. He did not think that the arguments of the hon. Gentleman were sufficient to warrant the House in consenting to the motion. The hon. Gentleman was perfectly justified in introducing his Bill to the attention of the House, but it by no means followed that the House should agree to receive it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury was a very grave one; it was no less than to repeal a portion of the Reform Act. He thought that it would be much better, with reference to so serious a matter, that the argument should precede rather than follow the introduction of the Bill. In measures of a comparatively trifling nature leave was frequently granted to bring in a Bill, postponing the discussion of it to a future stage; but it was very unusual indeed to allow a Bill of so important a character as that moved for by the hon. Member for Finsbury to be brought in without any reasons having been assigned for its introduction. He had hoped that, instead of taking this course, the hon. Gentleman would have postponed moving for leave to bring in the Bill until his noble Friend was present. He opposed the motion on the ground that the hon. Gentleman had presented no arguments in favour of it. [Mr.  Duncombe
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that this was a great and important question, which he and many others were exceeding anxious should be carried in the affirmative. The principle of the Reform Act was this, that persons occupying houses of ten pounds a-year should be entitled to vote at the election of Members of Parliament. Were
 206
 Sir Edward Codrington  said, that with all proper deference for the opinions of those hon. Gentlemen who were connected with the mercantile marine of Great Britain, he did not think that sufficient attention was paid to the safety of the lives of the seamen and others who made the voyage on board merchant ships. He had seen vessels knowingly lost. He repeated, that he had seen merchant-vessels purposely lost. He had once been standing on the beach at Brighton, and had been asked by some people near him why he was looking so attentively seaward? "To see that vessel lost," was the answer which he made. He awaited the result accordingly; and the vessel was undoubtedly lost, as he had anticipated, for no other earthly reason, as he believed, but that she had been largely insured. He doubted very much whether the people at Lloyd's were aware of the extent of danger to which vessels were exposed in consequence, as it was termed, of their being "well insured."
 Captain Pechell  said, it was perfectly notorious that when a ship was fit for nothing else it was sent to bring timber from Canada. He hoped the hon. Member for Sheffield would receive that credit he was justly entitled to for his very great perseverance in this matter.
 Mr. Ward  would not trespass on the attention of the House did he not feel that he had an imperative duty to perform towards a distinguished individual—Mr. Forsyth—a member of the government of the United States against whom he had last year brought a charge, which he had since ascertained to have been totally unfounded. The charge which he had made was this—that a certain influential member of the American government had an interest not
 198
 Sir R. Simeon  presented a petition from the Isle of Wight, relating to the manufacture of fictitious votes in that island. This evil was one of growing importance, and called for the immediate attention of the House, as, unless a stop was put to the practice of manufacturing votes for party purposes, the legitimate electors would be deprived of the rights which had lately been conferred upon them. If the system
 161
 Sir Robert Peel  was not certain whether the form which the hon. Member has chosen was the best for effecting his object.
 163 l. l. 164
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he was not prepared to dispute the importance of the subject to which the hon. Gentleman had drawn the attention of the House, nor to deny that it was a matter which the public and the Government of this country should view with attention and interest. The hon. Member had not, however, laid such ground for the production of those papers as to induce him (Viscount Palmerston) to think it would be consistent with his duty to grant them. He thought the hon. Member had not correctly viewed the present state of the transactions to which his motion related; and he would beg of that hon. Member to ask himself what the present state of the matter really
 194 195 196 197
 Lord Sandon  was heartily glad that the hon. Member had persevered so far as to introduce a Bill which was likely to remedy many of the evils which had been proved before the Committee to exist in this department of business. He felt himself bound to bear testimony to the zeal of the hon. Member whose Bill, if not shackled with too many regulations, he had no doubt would do much good.
 Viscount Mahon  rose and spoke as follows: * * 224 225 226 —Pax missa per orbem Fenea belligeri compescat limina Jani. 227 Madrid Gazette Madrid Gazette 228 Roebuck. 229 230 l. 231 232 233 Sent in this foul clime to languish, Think what thousands fell in vain! Wasting with disease and anguish,— Not in glorious battle slain. 234 235 236 237 238
 Mr. R. Cutlar Ferguson  said, he thought it impossible not to thank the noble Lord for the manner in which he had brought forward his subject. The noble Lord had done this in a manner which was free from all objection—in a manner which was never surpassed for the moderate and gentlemanly language which had pervaded the speech from beginning to end. At the same time, as he differed, almost in everything, from what the noble Lord had said, he must interrupt the proceedings of the evening for a short period, in order to stale his own opinions on one or two points. The noble Lord, as he understood, in the beginning of his speech, did not mean to say that the Quadripartite Treaty ought not to be observed; for, on the contrary, he stated that he joined the Administration which came in when the Government which now again held office went out, and that that Ministry determined to carry out the provisions and stipulations of that treaty. The only thing for the House to consider was, whether his Majesty's Government, in the fulfilment of the engagements by which they were bound by the treaty, merited the reproaches which had been cast upon them by the noble Lord. With respect
 239 240 241 242
 Mr. Fector  declared that he was directly and fundamentally opposed to the policy of the noble Lord, because he was a supporter of that system of foreign policy under which he believed the real rights and privileges of the country could alone be maintained. He regretted the manner in which this question had been brought forward. He would rather have seen some substantial resolution submitted to the House. He gave the noble Lord credit for the purest motives; but he thought the House ought to be placed in a position to declare by its vote whether it sanctioned the policy of the noble Lord or not. He condemned the cruel spirit that had characterised the war, and could not enough reprobate the massacres at Barcelona and Madrid, but he should like to know what right this country had to interfere with the affairs of Spain at all? Suppose, for a moment, that a question respecting the succession was entertained in this country, how should we like Prussia, or Austria, or Fiance to interfere with us for the purpose of upholding either one or the other side of the question? What would be our feelings? Would not every man with the heart of an Englishman stand up and vindicate the independence of his country? He thought, too, that the course pursued would be ultimately ineffective. We might send out our tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of men, but he believed we should never settle the question of the government of Spain. Napoleon with all his military resources found that to be more than he could effect. He regretted, exceedingly, the course which had been taken by the British Ministry, because the effect of it had been to crush freedom of opinion among the people of Spain. As a friend to our national honour, he was compelled to say that he considered that it had been compromised. As a friend to liberty, he considered with his noble Friend that it had been interfered with and violated by the foreign policy of this country, and he only regretted that the question had not been brought before the House in such a manner as to enable it to give a distinct vote.
 Lord Francis Egerton  had no intention of interfering in the discussion, but was induced to rise by one or two of the latter observations of the right hon. Member for Kirkcudbright. That right hon. Member had taken a course with respect to the privileges of the Basque provinces which was indeed
 245 246 247
 Mr. R. Cutlar Ferguson  begged to explain. He had never justified the war in Spain on the ground of taking away the privileges of the Basque provinces. On the contrary, he admired the conduct of the people of those provinces. The war was found there, and was there encountered but it was never intended to make war against the privileges of the people. He certainly felt deep regret at seeing the blood of his countrymen shed for the support of the Spanish nation, unaided by the army of that nation.
 Mr. Poulter  differed entirely from the views entertained by the noble Lord opposite, and protested against the term intervention being applied to the policy of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. That term could be applied to those cases only where a state unappealed
 248 de facto de jure, bona fide; aut Cæsar aut nullus. 249 proprio vigor in transitu
 Mr. Grove Price  could not help congratulating the noble Lord on the curious felicity of his foreign policy, which, at the same time, was a matter of reproach throughout Europe, and which had led to
 250 251 252 253 ipse dixit 254 255 A laugh. Mr. O'Connell, 256
 Viscount Palmerston  stated, that however he might differ from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down—and differ from him he did—in every opinion that he expressed, and which could at all bear upon the subject then under discussion, yet he was still ready, and most happy to bear his testimony, that the opinions of the hon. Gentleman proceeded from feelings deeply implanted in his mind, that in his enthusiasm in promulgating these opinions he was perfectly sincere, and therefore entitled to the respect of all those who differed the most widely from him! The hon. Gentleman, he also felt bound to say, had paid great attention to the affairs of Spain, and had studied them deeply; and though he might differ from the hon. Gentleman as to the result of his inquiries, yet still he did justice to the attention which the hon. Gentleman had given to the subject. The hon. Gentleman had begun his speech by reviewing a pamphlet relating to the affairs of Spain. He admired the hon. Gentleman's review much.' It was certainly a better review than some that he had lately seen; it showed much more knowledge of the matter to be discussed, and it would have been better for the party who entertain the same views as the hon. Gentleman to have adopted his review of the subject instead of their own. The hon. Gentleman was quite right in saying, that he did not write that pamphlet. It certainly was a very able pamphlet, and he must say, that if he had written it, he should be proud to acknowledge it. He did not mean to follow the hon. Member through his review. The hon. Gentleman had gone into a dissertation upon
 257 de facto, de facto; 258 259 260 261 262 263 264 265 Guarda Costas, 266 267 268 269 270 271
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the noble Lord had, on this occasion, pursued the course which he could say, from experience, the noble Lord had uniformly pursued, and with the same result, whenever the foreign policy of this country was brought under consideration. After having spent three-quarters of an hour defending his policy, and having put one-half of his supporters in a comfortable state of repose, and not having gained from the other half a single sympathetic cheer in favour of his acts, he then found it necessary to disturb the somnolency of some and to excite the enthusiasm of others, by imputing to his opponents a participation in the love of despotism, as if it were necessary to be partisans of Don Carlos because they disapproved of the policy of the noble Lord— as if it were not possible to entertain a doubt about the justice of the noble Lord's acts, and the result of his foreign policy, without, at the same time, wishing to check the career of improvement in Spain, and to blast her hopes of acquiring settled and constitutional institutions. He, for one, openly disavowed all participation in the principles, or sympathy with the cause of Don Carlos. He was only repeating language he had emphatically used before. If he acted in the fulfilment of a treaty, by which the Queen of Spain was recognised as the ally of this country, was it necessary to claim credit for not entering into any secret artifice for the purpose of preventing her success? He would not say that the objects of British policy would be advanced by the success of Don Carlos. He begged to state also, distinctly, that he wished to see Spain enjoy settled liberties, and that under such institutions as may be most conducive to her happiness, and best calculated by their slow progress to establish her settled freedom. But, while he entertained these opinions, at the same time, he must tell the House that he believed that our policy was defeating the cause of improvement—defeating it by our meddling and interference, and our deserting the principle of our support, namely, the principle of non-intervention; and by our having taken a course neither calculated to raise the character of England, nor to acquire the affections of Spain.
 272 273 274 275 proprio vigore, curiosa felicitas C. Wood, 276 277 278 279
 Mr. O'Connell  begged the House to
 280 281 282
 Mr. Grove Price : What I said was— Has not the hon. and learned Member had an interview with Don Carlos?
 Mr. O'Connell : I never visited Don Carlos. I never saw him in my life. I saw the Bishop of Leon—and how? He wished me to call on him, and I declined. He then said he would call on me, and he did call, with an interpreter, who had only one fault as an interpreter, he knew neither Spanish nor English. The Bishop knew nothing of French, and be endeavoured to converse in Latin; but owing to the Spanish tone in which he pronounced the words, I could understand very little of what he said, and remember only the words  religionem Catholicam et purgatorium. 283 284
 Viscount Sandon  said, the hon. Member had complained of the kings of Spain for taking from the clergy seventy-five per cent. out of their incomes; but was there not a country nearer than Spain where the clergy were deprived of a great portion of their incomes, and reduced to the greatest distress, by the endeavours of the hon. and learned Member? Let him not throw all the blame of the atrocities of the Spanish war on Don Carlos, or ask in a triumphant tone why had not these instruments of cruelty been dismissed by Don Carlos? Had the Christino leaders, guilty of cruelty, been dismissed? He was no party man of either Don Carlos or Queen Isabella, neither did he think the interest of either was the compass by which they were to steer. He only considered the interests of his own country. But while the hon. and learned Member talked of the atrocities committing in Spain did he forget that the Government of this country had allowed British subjects to take part in a war in a country where they were without the protection of the British flag. The hon. and learned Member, whose humanity seemed to have taken the alarm, talked of nothing but atrocities and blood; but these were expressions with which he
 285
 Mr. O'Connell  begged to be indulged for a moment. What the noble Lord talked of throwing back in his (Mr. O'Connell's) teeth, the noble Lord had created himself. The noble Lord had talked of his virtuous indignation. The noble Lord's indignation was the reverse. It was founded on a mistake. The noble Lord said, that he (Mr. O'Connell) had reduced the incomes of the Protestant clergy in Ireland 75 per cent. Now, did he not support the Bill which went to secure the Protestant Clergy 77½ of their income? But the noble Lord and his Friends prevented that settlement. But the noble Lord asked why he (Mr. O'Connell) insisted on the Carlists being turned out of their service, and not the Christinos. Now, he had never said a word of the kind. The statement of the noble Lord might, therefore be very dignified, but it was untrue; for he had condemned the conduct of the Christinos as well as that of the Carlists. The noble Lord had shown more heat than good sense.
 Viscount Sandon  admitted, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had condemned both sides in the Spanish contest. But he had condemned his (Lord Sandon's) side of the House for praising the one party, and had not condemned his Majesty's Ministers for praising the other.
 Mr. Villiers  observed, that the tendency of such speeches as those of the noble Mover of she Amendment, and the right hon. Baronet was only to cheer on the party they said they were unfavourable to. If any thing could promote the continuance of the civil war in Spain, it was
 286
 Viscount Mahon  stated, that it was not his intention to bring forward any motion on the subject; he was contented with the discussion which had taken place.
 Lord George Lennox  brought forward the motion of which he had given notice, for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the promotion of the officers of the Royal Marines, with a view of giving those officers more rapid promotion, and thereby rendering them more effective. He wished, he said, to observe to the House that there were but three corps in his Majesty's service in which promotion did not proceed by purchase—these were the artillery, the engineers, and the marines; and it was surprising, comparing the promotion in the last with the two former, how slow it proceeded with the Marines, and how justly the officers in that service might complain of the mode in which they were treated. The officers of the Marines could not look forward to the command of a regiment. The most sanguine amongst them might hope for the command of a division, but even so, it would take him forty-four years to attain it; and under the present system no man could expect to attain it until he was at least seventy years of age. Officers scarcely ever could attain to any such command until they became non-effective. In the other grades they found the lieutenant-colonel commandant seventy-seven years of age. The period of service of one senior colonel was fifty-five years, of another fifty-nine, and of many fifty-eight years. A colonel-commandant had, from his advanced age, repeatedly stated, that it was impossible for him to discharge the duties of his situation with satisfaction to himself or advantage to others; yet this officer was compelled to continue in command. There were four second colonel-commandants who had all been forty-four years in the service: there were other lieutenant-colonels and majors who were from forty to forty-four years in the service. The senior captains had been forty years in the service; the junior captains twenty-nine years; ten senior lieutenants twenty-nine years in the service, and fifteen junior lieutenants twenty-eight years in the service. From a comparison between the promotions in
 214
 Captain Berkeley  said, that when he came to the House, it was his intention to vote for the motion of his noble Friend; but, after the statement of the Secretary of the Admiralty—after hearing from that hon. Gentleman that the just claims of the Marines were under the consideration of the Admiralty, he hoped that his noble Friend would leave the subject in the hands of his Majesty's Government. He was convinced that full justice would be done to the Marine corps. Before he left the Board of Admiralty, the noble Lord who was then at the head of the Admiralty
 217
 Colonel Thompson  was anxious to know why the Marine forces, when they distinguished themselves in action, should not be rewarded, by means of the brevet, as well as other officers in the King's service? He thought that the most legitimate employment of the brevet was in bestowing rank on officers under such circumstances. He would certainly support the motion.
 Captain Boldero  seconded the motion of the noble Lord. He read to the House the eulogium pronounced by his Majesty (when Duke of Clarence) on the eminent services rendered to the country by the Marines. This eulogium was pronounced on the occasion of presenting them with a stand of colours. To show with what in-justice the Marines were treated, he observed, that of all the officers of Marines, employed in the great battle of Trafalgar only one of them had received promotion. It was his opinion that it ought to be recommended to the Admiralty to afford some outlet for the old officers of Marines, many of whom were unfit for duty. In the conflict between the Shannon and the Chesapeake, the officers of Marines who had boarded the American vessel, and of whom hon. mention had been made in the dispatch, received no promotion. Such a circumstance would not have occurred in the navy, officers so distinguished would be immediately promoted, as officers in the navy had been promoted, who took part in the trifling affair the other day at Bilbao. Even latterly the officers of engineers were promoted, while a major of Marines, having six hundred men under him, was neglected. He trusted that, as the Marines were always placed in the van in the time of war, they were not always to be left in the rear when promotion was to take place. For his own part, he could not see
 215
 Lord Hotham  most willingly bore testimony to the eminent services of the Marines; but still he thought it better to leave the matter in the hands of Government.
 Lord John Russell  could at once answer the question of the hon. Gentleman, that he should object to this division of the resolution. It might be conformable to the
 213
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, though he could not agree to the appointment of the Committee, yet he entirely concurred in the greater part of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. He was most happy to add his approbation to that of the hon. Gentleman of the conduct of the Marine corps in all parts of the world. All that had been said did not at all exceed their merits; by land and by sea they had proved themselves worthy of all that could be said of them. Admitting the statements of the hon. Gentlemen with respect to the extreme age of the officers, and the slowness of promotion in that corps, yet it was to be remembered that the promotion there was carried on entirely by seniority, which was a plan that had been often urged upon the Ministry in that House. It was not true that the Admiralty had done nothing on the subject; it had en-
 216
 Mr. C. Wood  begged to say, that it was impossible for him to answer for the Board of Admiralty as to what they would do. He thought, however, when he told the House, that the subject was already under consideration of the Board of Admiralty, with the view of doing justice, that this would be sufficient. He would only add, that he was sure that the Board of Admiralty would take the earliest means in their power to apply to his Majesty for an Order in Council to make such regulations as should be necessary.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that when he moved these estimates last year, he abstained from going into any detailed statements on the subject, and he should pursue a similar course, considering that he should best consult the convenience of the House, by making his remarks as brief as possible. He should confine himself simply to the difference which would be found in the various votes of this and last year. With regard to the first item, "wages to seamen and marines," there was a difference of about 12,000 l. l., l. l. 220 l., l. Nautical Almanacs Nautical Almanac l., l. 221 222 l. l.
 Mr. Harvey  seeing the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, wished to ask a question in reference to the resolution which had been placed on the table by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and which stands for further consideration next Monday. That resolution affirmed two propositions: First, that Church-rates ought forthwith to cease, and be abolished by law; the second was the mode of providing for the deficiency occasioned by the affirmance of the first. He desired to know whether the Government would consent to divide the resolution. To the first he could give his hearty assent; to the second, as therein proposed he entertained serious doubts.
 Mr. G. F. Young  thought that the noble Lord (Lennox) might be satisfied with the answer given by the Secretary of the Admiralty. If the noble Lord pressed this matter to a division, he would place many Members in a false position; and many of those who would vote against
 219
 Sir Henry Hardinge  thought it necessary for him to say a few words on this subject. He had no wish to trespass on the time of the House, as he considered the answer that had been given by the Secretary of the Admiralty perfectly satisfactory. He considered the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wood) to have stated that the services of the Marines would be taken into consideration, and, therefore, he conceived that everything essential and substantial was acquired by the answer given by the hon. Gentleman. He must however, say, that one most essential part had been omitted in the argument on the matter, namely, the impropriety of appointing a Committee of that House, by which promotions in the army should be taken into consideration.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he on the other hand felt imperatively called upon to contradict the assertion of the right hon. and gallant Officer. He hoped that the day would never come when any application to the House of Commons respecting the promotion of officers should be refused on the ground of privilege. The fact of the motion being made in Committee was the same thing. He (Mr. Hume) thought it was the duty of the House of Commons, when injustice had been done to any branch of the service, to interfere. If the prerogative of the Crown was improperly exercised, it was the duty of that House to take up the question. He cordially supported the motion of the noble Lord, and if he went out alone, he (Mr. Hume) would accompany him. Was promotion to take place with great rapidity in other corps because they were officered by branches of the aristocracy, while the Marines were passed by? Was it to be supposed that human nature could bear that? In 1827, he brought the case of the Marines before the House, and showed the injustice that had been practised
 218
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in the answer given by his hon. Friend (Mr. Wood), the reason suggested by the right hon. Baronet amongst others, presented itself to his mind. He objected with the right hon. Baronet to the introduction of the question of promotion in the army before a Committee of the House.
 Admiral Adam  thought that that House ought to furnish adequate means to the Crown to provide for the retirement of the full number of this distinguished corps. He agreed, however, with the right hon. Baronet (Sir H. Hardinge) that this was not a matter which could properly come before a Committee.
 Sir Edward Codrington  sincerely hoped the Government would not oppose the present motion—inquiry was at least due to that body. He having witnessed their efficiency in action upon more than one occasion, would say that they had done their duty nobly. With respect to the statement made by the hon. Member who had last spoken of colonelcies having been given away, he would state 8,000 l.
 The Earl of Darlington  opposed the motion, to comply with which would require the labour of some hundreds of clerks for many months. There was no service in the world in which less favour was shown in promotion than in the army of England.
 Mr. Bannerman  said, that though he had the highest respect for the King's prerogative, he did not see why a Committee should not be appointed to inquire into the system of military promotion; and if no hon. Member better qualified than himself took up the subject, he would himself submit a motion to that effect.
 Mr. C. Wood  had no objection to grant the return, if confined to admirals, as it could then be made out, without any immoderate delay.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that on the 3rd of January, 1816, the number of officers was augmented to 6,035. On the 1st of January, 1830, when rules were made for the purpose of progressively reducing the list, the number was reduced by nearly 400. Since that period there had been a reduction of 600.
 Mr. Charles Wood  objected to the motion, on the same grounds as those urged by his noble Friend (Lord Howick) against some of those already moved.
 Mr. C. Wood . One ground on which he objected to the motion, and which he was sure the House would admit, was the immense time it would take to prepare these returns. When he (Mr. C. Wood) saw the notice of motion, he consulted with the chief clerk in the department of Somerset-house, in which the returns were to be prepared; and he said, that they could not be got ready in less than three years and a-half. Another clerk said, that he could not say exactly what time it would take to prepare them, but it could not be less than between three and four years; and let it be understood, that these answers applied to only one-half of the information for which the hon. Member called. He would put it to the House whether it would consent to encumber any public department with the preparation of returns, which must stop all other business? He would contend that the promotions which had taken place, had been conducted on the fairest principles; and in proof of it, would beg to refer the hon. Member to a letter addressed to him by a distinguished officer in the navy (Admiral Napier) who had put the question on its fairest grounds. The hon. Member would there find, that it would be impossible to conduct the service of the navy, unless a number of young officers were kept up. The only thing to object to the late promotion was, that it had been too long delayed. It would be seen that, notwithstanding the promotion, there would be a considerable reduction of the half-pay.
 Sir George Sinclair  said, that the only fault he had ever heard out of doors with the late brevet promotion was, that it had been deferred too long—until many deserving officers, both naval and military, had gone to their graves who ought to have participated in the promotion. He was not desirous to discuss the general question at present. He wished, however,
 288
 Sir George Sinclair  begged to express his satisfaction at the explanation given by the noble Lord, and he trusted he would lose no time in introducing some measure to remedy the hardship. He had not the honour of ever being personally known to Sir W. Tuyll, and had never seen him to the best of his knowledge; but he was induced on public grounds to notice this case, which had casually come to his knowledge, and he should rejoice in being in any way instrumental in obtaining justice for an officer whose merits were universally acknowledged.
 Mr. Lambton  thought, that promotion in the army and navy was obtained too much by aristocratical or political influence, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman's motion would tend to remedy that abuse.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  opposed the motion, as he entertained the strongest ob-
 293
 Sir H. Hardinge  would not delay the House by going into the details of the motion, but he would say, that since the peace there had been a reduction of about 6,000 officers, and a saving thus made to the public of 1,800,000 l.
 The Speaker . There can be no doubt, that for one Member to impute to another, that he is a disloyal subject, is highly irregular, and the hon. Member who has made that imputation, is bound to retract it.
 Mr. Hume . I rise to order. The hon. and gallant officer did not use any terms to qualify his allegation. He stated, that the reason why 1 selected the instance of Sir Charles Thornton, in the return of which I gave notice, and which I intend to move with respect to that officer, was, that he was a dutiful, affectionate, and loyal subject to his Sovereign. I then, perhaps irregularly, interrupted the hon. and gallant Member, by asking—who was not so? To which the gallant officer replied, "Joseph Hume." Sir, I contend that that was a gross breach of order, which fully justified the term I applied to it, and which the gallant Officer is bound to retract.
 Mr. Hume  defended the motion. The information for which he sought was absolutely necessary, and he could not consent to withdraw the motion. The hon. Member (Mr. C. Wood) had not stated any ground why the House should refuse the motion.
 Mr. Hume . Who is not a loyal subject?
 Mr. Hume  said, that if he had called for an account of the services of three or four officers it would seem invidious. He, therefore, moved for an account of all, and the answer he now got from the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, was, that he could not tell the services of any one officer.
 Mr. Hume . Sir, I must say, that if ever the hon. and gallant Officer told an untruth, that which he has now uttered is one. I ask, why should the hon. and gallant Officer dare impute to me that I am a disloyal subject? I ask of you,
 290
 Mr. Hume  then moved for a "Return of the names of all officers in the army, promoted by brevet since the 1st of January, 1837; distinguishing those on full, from those on half and on retired pay, at the time of promotion, &c."
 Mr. Hume  said, in submitting the motions of which he had given notice, he had no wish to take up the time of the House. All he wanted was, the names of the officers contained in the late brevet, with the names and dates of their commissions, and their periods of service. These data he thought would show, that in the late brevet the public money had been unnecessarily expended, and that the promotions had been made with partiality, and had not depended on the merit of the individual as it ought to have done. The object of his motions was to obtain information on these points, which would show this partiality. He would, therefore, move for "a return of the number of officers in the army of each regimental rank, on full pay, on the 25th of December, 1836; distinguishing the number in each class who held brevet rank in addition to their regimental, and stating also what brevet rank; together with an abstract of the total amount of pay of such officers, for the year 1836."
 Mr. Hume  said, that as the Secretary to the Admiralty objected to the return, on the ground of expense, if the documents were submitted to his inspection, he would send a clerk to the War-office, and have the returns made out at his own cost. His complaint was, that many who had fairly earned their promotion, had been passed by. The regulations of 1827, he contended, were ruining the navy; and such was the wasteful expenditure of the public money, that a pension for life was granted to officers for a period of service, on an average, not exceeding three years.
 Mr. Hume  then moved for "a return of the names of all midshipmen and officers of the royal navy promoted since the 1st of January, 1837, distinguishing those on full pay and employed, from those on half-pay and retired pay, at the time of such promotion; stating the date of entry of each into the navy, when passed their examination for lieutenants, the several ranks or ratings they have held, the dates
 291
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that the officers lately promoted had only received the reward to which they were entitled by their long services during the war. There had been no promotion for a long time and it was absolutely necessary to promote young and active officers.
 Captain Pechell  supported the motion on the ground that the return would show that a great number of midshipmen, after long and meritorious services in that sub ordinate grade, had attained a very advanced age, without being rewarded by the promotion to which they were entitled.
 Sir J. Elley . "If what I said was wrong, I beg pardon of the House, and I assure the hon. Member that I had no intention of imputing disloyalty to him in the words which, I admit, I hastily used. I meant to speak of loyalty only in the comparison as between him and the gallant officer Sir C. Thornton." The hon. and gallant Officer then went on to speak of the great services of General Thornton, who had lost an arm in defence of his country, and who was, in every respect, fully entitled to every promotion he had received. The merits of that gallant Officer had had the testimony of one who was almost adored whilst living, and universally regretted at his death—he meant the late General Sir Ralph Abercromby.
 Sir J. Elley . I did not mean to charge the hon. Member with disloyalty. I spoke of comparative loyalty.
 Sir J. Elley . Joseph Hume. ["Order."]
 Sir J. Elley  regretted that the hon. Member for Middlesex should have selected Major-General Sir Charles Thornton, and called for an account of his particular services. Why not have selected some general officer who was a Member of that House, and could have defended himself against the charge implied in such a motion of having been unfairly promoted? He could tell the reason why this invidious selection had been made of Sir Charles Thornton—it was because he was a dutiful, affectionate, and loyal subject to his Sovereign.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  objected to the late brevet, particularly to that part of it by which colonels were promoted to the rank of major-generals, when we had twenty times more generals than we could possibly want. Out of nearly forty colonels who were so promoted, only nine were in actual service.
 Viscount Howick  would ask the House whether it was fair to take up the time of the clerks, a department already fully employed, with the details which the hon. Member required as to 580 officers. The hon. Member suspected that the late promotion was not fair in three or four instances, and he brought forward this fishing motion, which extended over not alone the officers whom the hon. Member had in his eye, but the whole 580 included in the brevet. Another reason why the hon. Member's motion ought not to be pressed was, that if he (Mr. Hume) intended to found any motion on it this Session, he would defeat his own object, for the
 289
 Viscount Howick  said, that the case of the officer whom the hon. Baronet had named did not fall within the regulations by which the brevet promotion had been decided; but he admitted the hardship of the case, and it would be a matter of consideration whether the particular injury in this case should not be remedied.
 Viscount Howick  had no wish to with-, hold any information on the subjects to
 287
 Mr. O'Connell  should be sorry to occupy the time of the House with anything personal to himself, but he was sure hon. Members would agree with him in thinking that the case to which he wished to call their attention, justified him in saying a few words.  The Times 296 The Times "The morality of the lady who handled the sceptre of Spain at the present moment, was of no importance at all; morality would, of course, add dignity to statesmanlike qualities; statesmanlike qualities, unsupported by morality, might be suspicious, but it was not because a lady was voluptuous in form, and accused of being voluptuous in propensities, that, therefore, she was unequal to the exigencies of government."
 Mr. Goulburn  observed that as the hon. Gentleman had done him the honour to refer to what fell from him in a discussion upon the state of the established Church, he hoped the House would pardon him if he partly endeavoured to reply to the hon. Gentleman, and partly to state what were his views and opinions upon the question then under the consideration of the House. It was a question the importance of which it was not possible for them to exaggerate. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman opposite that it was not necessary to enter into details respecting the calculations that were before the House. It was always difficult to call the attention of Members to dry mathematical questions; but it was still more difficult to do so at that advanced period of the evening, and it was, above all, difficult to do so after such details had been stated to the House in the clear, accurate, and, as it appeared to him, unanswerable manner in which they had been laid before the House by his right hon. Friend near him. It was particularly unnecessary to do so as the details of his right hon. Friend had not been replied to by any Gentleman who followed him. He therefore should do as the hon. Member for Weymouth had done—he should not attempt to enter into the calculations upon the questions before them. He dissented from the measure then before them because it was merely a measure to relieve persons from the evils sustained by the present state of the law with respect to the levy of Church-rates; and because it involved other and far greater questions. It involved in it this question: whether they were decided on maintaining upon a firm basis the Established Church of this country—whether they intended to main-
 369 370 371 372 l. l. 373 374 375 l. 376
 Dr. Lushington  was understood to say, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had been fruitful in objections, but not one of them appeared to be disposed, or able, to point out any practical means by which the existing evil could be removed if the present plan were not adopted. It had been the almost universal opinion of the House, that the evil of the existing system was great, it was daily and hourly increasing, and it already prevailed to such an extent that some remedy must be applied to it. He had hoped that the arguments which were used in 1834, by some of the hon. Gentlemen opposite, had produced so deep an impression on the House that it was scarcely necessary for him to attempt to prove the proposition to which those hon. Gentlemen had addressed themselves. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, illustrated in that year, in the strongest terms, the mischief to which the country was then subject, and called on the House, for the protection of the interests of religion, for the safety of the Established Church itself, and for the avoidance of inconceivable evils, to adopt some remedy to stay the torrent which was then overwhelming them. That appeal of the noble Lord did not appear to have had its effect either on the right hon. Baronet, or on any of the hon. Gentlemen who sat around him. He admitted that church-rates had existed for centuries past; but they ought to consider what they originally were, and what had been their consequences from time to time. Formerly they were a tax, not in respect of land only, but on all the property the individual possessed. There were still one or two places in which they were assessed, not merely on real property, but on the stock in trade — on goods and chattels. They had the same origin as mortuaries which in some parts of the country now existed. In the reign of William 3rd the contest had its commencement, but the main body of the people continued to pay the tax. Since that period the Dissenters had increased with astonishing rapidity: they had increased in numbers, in respectability, in intelligence, in education. Their ministers were now able to compete with those of any church in the world. What was the consequence? Let the House contemplate the difficulties which had arisen. First came the question whether the vestries bad the right to refuse the rate altogether;
 378 l. 379 380 381
 Lord John Russell  said, he thought that a general adherence to the practice would be desirable, but as he had already said, there ought to be occasional deviations. Was the hon. Member aware of the thousands of persons who were transported by gentlemen who had not been bred to the bar?
 Lord John Russell  said, it was quite true that an appointment had been made of a gentleman to fill the office of Police Magistrate. It was also true, that that
 295
 Mr. Granville Harcourt Vernon. * * 345 l. l. l. 346 in esse, in posse; 347 348 not W. Wynn: 349 350 351 352 353 354 proprio vigore, 355 356 Make an utensil of the Church, And then to leave her in the lurch. 357 358 tertium quid 359 Circumspectè agatis. l. l., 360 l., l. Non hos quæsitum munus in usus,
 Mr. Hume  begged to know the name of the work from which the right hon. Baronet had quoted?
 Mr. Estcourt  wished to know, whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to continue the practice of his predecessors?
 Mr. Estcourt  rose to ask a question of the noble Lord opposite (the Secretary of State for the Home Department). He felt particularly called upon to put this question, in consequence of his having filled the Chair of the Committee appointed some years ago to consider the state of the police of the metropolis. That Committee, after a most attentive consideration of the matters referred to them, had recommended that no persons should be chosen to fill the office of a Police Magistrate unless he had been bred to the bar. That recommendation had been acted upon ever since; indeed, from the time of its introduction by his noble Friend (Lord Sidmouth), it had not been departed from. A few days ago, however, he learned that the noble Lord had appointed a gentleman to be a Police Magistrate, who did not belong to the bar. He wished to know if the fact were so, and why the noble Lord had departed from the invariable practice of the Home-office in making such appointments?
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, he did not intend to enter into the minute details of the question, after they had been so thoroughly acquainted with many of those details, through one so perfectly conversant with the whole subject, as the hon. and Learned Member who had just sat down. From such an authority it was enough for him to learn to-night, that the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, was wrong in denying, and that his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was right in assuming, there would be a surplus. It was a remarkable feature of this plan of his right hon. Friend for raising the fund for sustaining the edifice of the Church, that though in all other sorts of contributions to the State, some one class, of subjects must be the sufferer; yet here, from what they had heard, it was clear that all must be gainers. The lessees who were called upon to make an outlay of capital on their land leased from the Church in proportion to the value of the tenure they held, were not prejudiced finally thereby, for they procured, as a consequence, the renewal of their leases on easier terms, whilst their prospects of gain from the property were also increased. In answer to the objection of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, who said he could not see by what sort of hocus-pocus it was to be contrived that the public should benefit by this project of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would suggest to the hon. and learned Gentleman, and those who thought with that hon. and learned Gentleman, that the public at large must inevitably be benefitted by increased outlay of capital on the very extensive domains of the Church, and by the increase of produce from such lands in consequence of the improvements made in the culture of the land of the Church. Would not this produce a very beneficial effect upon the prices of the necessaries of life, and so far benefit the community? He agreed in opinion with his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the alteration would prove a benefit to the interests of the Established Church. But should it fail, the whole expense of it could only, as the right hon. Baronet admitted, fall, upon the consolidated fund. In reply to the assertion that the whole plan was of a piece with the conduct of the Government, and showed that there was a conspiracy between the Government
 362 363 l. l. 364 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 365 366 Cheers from both sides of the House 367 l. l. 368
 Sir Robert Peel  had said, that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had reserved himself upon this point, and before drawing any general conclusion, he should have made a proper allowance for this description of property.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to explain one point. The noble Lord, in the course of
 344
 Sir Robert Peel ,  The Eclectic Review. 320 321 l. l. 322 l. l. l. l. 323 "We entertain a confident expectation that the amount of the fund will not be less than 130,000 l. l., l. l. l. "The most prominent, however, of those defects, which cripple the energies of the Established Church, and circumscribe its usefulness, is the want of Churches and ministers in the large towns and populous districts of the kingdom. The growth of the population has been so rapid, as to outrun the means possessed by the establishment of meeting its spiritual wants; and the result has been, that a vast proportion of the people are left destitute of the opportunities of public worship and Christian instruction, even when every allowance is made for the exertions of those religious bodies which are not in connexion with the Established Church. It is not necessary in this Report to enter into all the details by which the truth of this assertion might be proved. It will be sufficient to state the following facts as examples. Looking to those parishes only which contain each a population exceeding 10,000, we find that in London and its suburbs, including the parishes on either bank of the Thames, there are four parishes or districts, each having a population exceeding 20,000, and containing an aggregate of 166,000 persons, with Church-room for 8,200 (not quite l–20th of the whole), and only eleven clergymen. There are twenty-one others, the aggregate population of which is 739,000, while the Church-room is for 66,155 (not one-tenth of the whole), and only forty-five clergymen." "The evils which flow from this deficiency in the means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence, greatly outweigh all other inconveniences resulting from any de-
 324 "In addition to these efforts, many Churches have been built and endowed by pious and liberal individuals. Upon the whole we may state, that within the last twenty years additional Church-room has been secured for at least 600,000 persons, and some hundreds of additional clergymen have been stationed in populous districts which were before destitute of the advantages of pastoral care and instruction. But all that has been hitherto done in this way falls very short of the necessity of the case." l. 325 326 327
 Sir Robert Peel  rose thus early because he desired to have an opportunity of submitting to the House in a connected form the view he took of the question which the resolution involved, because he knew by past ex-
 297 298 299 l., l. l. l. l.; 300 l. l. l., l., l., l. l. l., l. l. l.  l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 301 l. l. l. data l. l., l. 302 l. 303 304 "1. When a lease for lives or years is renewed, what measures do you take in order to ascertain the value of the property?—I employ a respectable surveyor to survey his property, and to make a report of the annual value and outgoings, so as to show me the net annual value clear of all deductions. "2. The value having been ascertained, how do you calculate the sum which should be paid for the renewal of leases on lives?—I multiply the net annual value so ascertained by such number of years' purchase as (allowing the lessee to make five per cent of the money to be paid by him) the Northampton mortality tables allow for the benefit to the lessee of adding a life or lives of his own selection, taking into consideration the ages of the existing life or lives, and taking for granted that the lessee will make the best selection. "3. Do you apprehend that the estates belonging to the prebendaries, who are corporations sole, are managed on the same principles?—For the most part. Prebendaries being corporations sole, who have renewed leases for lives, under my observation, I have adopted the same principles." 305 l., l., l. "Queries:—The average improved rental of church leases is 1,323,000 l. l. l., l. l. l. 306 l., l. l. l. l. 307 l. l. l. l. l., l. Hear. 308 l. l., l. l., l. 309 310 311 312 l. 313 Hear. 314 "One mode of rendering those incomes less uncertain would be, to allow the existing leases, both for lives and for terms of years, to expire. But any plan for accomplishing this object must involve the necessity of borrowing money upon the security of the episcopal estates, in order to compensate the Bishops for the loss of the fines which accrue to them under the present system, and which form an important part of their incomes. The practical result of such an operation would be, to transfer to the parties lending their money that interest in the episcopal estates which is now possessed by the lessees. We are not, therefore, prepared to recommend the adoption of any general measure for allowing the leases for lives and terms of years to expire; although, for the purpose of correcting, in some degree, the inconvenience now arising from the great variations in the annual amount of the episcopal incomes, we recommend that facilities should be afforded for the conversion of leases for lives into leases for terms of years." 315 * bonâ fide * † Ibid. 316 * * † Ibid. ‡Ibid. § Ibid. 317 318 319
 Viscount Howick  said, that in rising to answer the right hon. Baronet he was sensible in no ordinary degree of the extreme difficulty of his situation. Unequal at all times to compete with that right hon. Gentleman, he felt particularly so after the very able and elaborate speech which the House had just heard. The complexity of the subject also greatly embarrassed him. Undoubtedly, however, if, before the speech of the right hon. Baronet, he were convinced of the expediency, the policy, and the justice of his right hon. Friend's proposition, that conviction was now infinitely increased. For, if the right hon. Baronet, with his acknowledged power and ability, and with the opportunity which he had of considering the subject, had been unable to produce more vital or important objections to the motion than those which the right hon. Baronet had stated, he felt, that how-
 328 329 l., l. l. l., l. l. l., l., l. 330 l. l. l. 331
 Viscount Howick  was astonished at the statement of the right hon. Baronet, because it was obvious from the speech of the right hon. Baronet, that he had been getting access to information which those on the ministerial side of the House were anxious to see, but were refused all access to; and he certainly was much astonished that the right hon. Gentleman under all the circumstances, should not have been informed that the sum of 260,000 l., l. l. 332 333 l. 334 335 336 337 338 339 340 l. l. 341 342 343
 Mr. Caley  would apply himself to the financial part of the question, not that he less felt the deeply important nature of the question in another point of view. There was no man in the House more warmly disposed than he was to do justice to the subject, or to give that security to the Church which he wished to see it possess. Considering all that had fallen in the course of the debate, considering that there was no security for a fund for the repairs of the fabric of the churches under the existing law, or under the existing habits of society, he felt that he must give his vote in favour at least of the principle of the resolutions proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He conceived that those resolutions contained three principles: the one was the principle of the abolition of Church-rates, in which he cordially concurred; another was the principle of extracting, if it were possible, a middle sum between the values of the freehold and the Church leasehold, if it could be fairly and justly obtained: and the third principle involved in these resolutions was (and he spoke it with great deference, and without intending offence) a principle of extortion from the lessees. On the part of the lessees he thought it his duty to pay his warmest thanks to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Exeter for having broken ground with respect to the justice and equity which were due to the lessees. They had been challenged by the Attorney-General to show how this measure was to operate injuriously towards the lessees. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that no complaint had been made by
 423 424 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. "Customary values of a farm of 100 l. 425 "The fine (for centuries back) has been 1½ year's rent=150 l. "The value of a fine of 150 l. l. "But the value of the leasehold in the market in the county of Durham, is eighteen years' purchase; that of the freehold twenty-eight years'. The marketable difference in this case, therefore, is 1,000 l. "About four years, or 400 l. "Purchasing at twenty-eight years' purchase for the freehold, a party makes 3½ per cent. on his investment; or 3 l. s. "Purchasing a lease, renewable at 1½ years' rent every seven years, at eighteen years' purchase, the same party makes 4½ per cent. on his investment; the difference of one per cent. allowed doubtless for the contingencies above alluded to. " Now, if the lease be taken at an unexpired term of 17½ years (reckoning the money to yield 4½ per cent. as before stated), the reversion is worth 10 l–5th years' purchase; or the annual value being 100 l. l.
 Mr. Pemberton , having listened attentively to the speech of the hon. Member for North Yorkshire, must confess that he felt exceedingly surprised at the determination stated at its conclusion. As to the proposed measure, he doubted its justice to the Church, he doubted its justice to
 431 432 prima facie 433 434 l. 435 l. 436 l. 437 438 439 l. 440 441
 Sir W. Rae  objected to this mode of proceeding in Bills of this sort, as being extremely inconvenient.
 Lord Stormont  also objected to the introduction of the Bill to-night. So little attention was paid to the affairs of Scotland by this House, that it had become proverbial, that Scotch Bills were never introduced till after one o'clock in the morning.
 Mr. R. Steuart  said, after the division which had taken place, he would not persevere in bringing forward the Bill that night; but he trusted it would go forth who the parties were that prevented the discussion of business relating to Scotland.
 Mr. Law  trusted that the House would allow him to trespass on its patience for a short time, on an occasion like the present, when a question of vital importance, involving, as he sincerely believed it did, the best interests, the integrity, and stability, nay, the very existence of our national Church, was under discussion. It was impossible for him to approach the consideration of this question without those feelings, connected as he was with a constituency who felt the deepest interest in the subject, and who attached to the discussion of that evening and to the event of this struggle between the Dissenters and the national Church the very last importance. It was not his intention to go through the various details which had been so well sifted and disposed of by hon. Members who had preceded him. The observations which he had to make would be chiefly limited to the principle of the measure. He could not but feel that those who had advanced the interests of the Church by the exertions which they had made in the course of this debate had left to those who should follow them little else but the dry husk of fact and legal argument. It was not possible to avoid feeling that the question had been discussed as if it really was a plan ripe for adoption, and without regard to the fact that the measure proposed by his Majesty's Government, however fatal it might prove to the Church if carried into effect, was a measure which, before it was formally introduced, they (the Government) had every reason to believe would never be accomplished. Hon. Members on the other side of the House, who had argued this question, were fully aware that they had been affecting the passing of a measure of which they utterly and entirely despaired. [ Cheers. An hon. Member 416 l. 417 418 419 420 421 422
 Lord John Russell : I assure you, Sir, that I should not interpose now, if I thought that I should be enabled to address the Committee at a later period of the evening; but I am anxious, as I naturally must be, after the many references that have been made to me personally, to state my opinion upon the subject under discussion. With respect to the tone in which this debate has been conducted, from the time when the right hon. Gentleman opposite brought it again under discussion, I have seen nothing of which there is any reason to complain. I must say, however, that the tone and nature of the argument that has been introduced, differs very widely from the nature of the course proposed. It has been said, and said upon high authority, and urged, as I shall presently show, by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Robert Peel) himself, that this is a question which demands the interposition of the Legislature. It is said by those who advocate the cause of the Church, that the law in its present state is unsatisfactory, and that unless the law is made more capable of execution, we shall soon see a number of the churches falling into ruins. The hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down, among others,
 442 443 444 445 l. l. 446 l. l. l. 447 448 l. 449 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. hereditas jacens, 450 l. 451 452 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 453 l., l. 454 455 456
 Mr. Benett  believed, that this question was not only of vital importance to the Church, but also to the country. No Gentleman in that House could entertain a stronger feeling of attachment to the Church than he did, and for the best interest of the Church itself he would support this measure. He could not agree with some hon. Gentlemen in thinking that it was desirable that there should be a separation of Church and State; on the contrary, he would always exert himself to the utmost to promote that union. He would ask whether it were possible to let matters rest in their present state? He would ask whether it were likely that Church-rates could now be collected in any parish? Indeed many hon. Members who had addressed the House had admitted that something must be done on the subject. Church-rates first began long subsequent to the period when Henry 8th. took possession of the property of the Church; and from the time they commenced till the present they had always been a voluntary contribution, the statute which had passed on the subject having only for its object to enforce the
 430
 The Attorney-General  said, he should vote for this measure, because he saw in it security and peace for the Church, and great benefit to the public. He felt himself called upon, after the appeal which had been made to him by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Exeter, to show to the House why it was that he could neither agree with his law nor his reason. It seemed to him that his hon. Friend had been misled by the zeal he always displayed as an advocate, and was blind to the defects of the case he had undertaken to support. He would not yield to his hon. Friend in his affection for the Established Church, both in Scotland and England. He was affectionately attached to that Church, in the bosom of which he had been born and reared. He looked with respect and regard upon the interests connected with it; he believed it to be of great benefit to the community at large; he wished to see it in the enjoyment of all its rights and privileges, and his only object in regard to it now was, that these should be secured, and that its utility should be extended. He was not for trusting to the voluntary principle, and he thought that that principle and these resolutions should by no means be placed upon the same footing. They could not, in his opinion, trust to the voluntary principle for giving religious instruction to the people. In great towns, and still more perhaps in remote districts of the country, unless religious instruction were provided by the State or by endowments, he much feared that ignorance and vice would prevail. He asserted that there ought to be an establishment, and that for the purposes of that establishment it was indispensably necessary that a provision should be made for the maintenance of the fabric of the Church, and for the performance of religious worship. The question was, whether the present mode of providing for the repair of Churches and for the performance of religious worship was satisfactory and could be continued? In his humble opinion, it was wholly inefficient, and he believed that a change in the law was absolutely necessary. His hon. and learned Friend had begun by taunting hon.
 404 405 l. l. 406 mandamus 407 primâ facie 408 409 410 cap-a-pie 411 412 413 ex-officio ex-officio 414 415
 Sir William Follett  felt himself indebted
 384 385 No! no! 386 387 388 dictum Hear, hear! mandamus 389 390 Baines 391 392 393 l. l. 394 395 l. Baines. 396 397 398 399 400 401 402 403
 Mr. Freshfield  thanked the noble Lord for the courteous manner in which he brought the subject under the consideration of the House; but there was no mode in which such a subject could come before Parliament which must not of necessity occasion regret and pain—regret that the time of the House should be occupied with anything that merely concerned him as an individual, and pain that after he had had the honour of a seat in that House for three Parliaments, during which he had always refrained from forcing himself upon their notice, he should now feel compelled to solicit attention respecting a subject which involved his own personal conduct, and which, to say the least, imputed to him some obliquity of moral perception. It was supposed that he had acted in a manner inconsistent with a resolution of that House—a resolution which appeared to him to have no more to do with the relation in which he stood towards the individual referred to, than it could possibly have to do with the conduct, if he might take the liberty to say so, of the right hon. Gentleman then in the chair. There was no individual more distant or more remote than himself from any interest upon any question that could come before that House as a subject of Parliamentary inquiry. He understood the resolution to be, that no Member by himself or his partner should be engaged in soliciting any Bill before that or the other House of Parliament, for pecuniary reward or advantage. Could there be a shadow of doubt that the object of that resolution was to prevent Members of the House of Commons from acting as Parliamentary agents—that it was intended to embrace partners in Parliamentary business, but not partners in other transactions? That was the precise and just interpretation of the resolution; and as to the particular case now under the notice of the House, they would of course deal with it as they thought proper. His object was not to argue the question beyond what was barely necessary to its full explanation. He should simply state the facts, and then leave the House to deal with those facts as they might think proper. He most distinctly asserted that he had no interest, direct or indirect, in soliciting, managing, or conducting any
 459 460 461
 Mr. Freshfield  having left the House,
 The Attorney-General  felt bound to offer his opinion to the House at once. It
 462
 Sir F. Pollock  entirely concurred in what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend. No Member of that House, either by himself or his partner, ought to participate in the profits of a Parliamentary agency. There never sat in that House an hon. Member more entitled to a higher share of confidence than the hon. Member for Penryn; and if the House was satisfied that what that hon. Member had stated was correct, it was clear that this case did not come within the spirit or the letter of the resolution. Having expressed his concurrence in what had been stated by his hon. and learned Friend opposite, and there being no motion before the House, he hoped the House, would now proceed to the other orders of the day.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that this was one of the farces which they were occasionally in the habit of seeing performed in that Mouse. It was impossible to come to any conclusion upon this that would be beneficial to the public. Constituents had it in their power to elect such Members as would be likely to serve them in Parliament faithfully; but to tell him that the hon. Member opposite could not feel any solicitude about the interest of his son, was just one of those extravagant suppositions that could not be tolerated any where but in the House of Commons. What he complained of was, that the House formed resolutions with the idea of reaching private interests, which it was impossible, and he thought that the best proceeding they could adopt would be to erase the resolution from their books altogether, and let all who could have a majority of their constituents have a seat in that House,
 Mr. Tooke  would not occupy the attention of the House more than a few minutes. There was no one who acquiesced more readily than himself in the satisfaction which the explanation of the hon. Gentleman had given; but he feared the influence which his respectability would have in contravening the spirit of the resolution; and he thought that some words should be added which would render it more simple, and make it impossible that influence respecting private Bills could be used. He hard been in the same predicament as the hon. Gentleman when he first was elected a Member of that House; and he thought that the spirit of the resolution should prevent any interference whatever with the private business which might be before it: and he therefore dissolved a useful and valuable partnership, although it had been suggested to him that his connexion with it might still be continued, the parties having different offices from him. He, however, abandoned the idea; in fact, he had never entertained it; for he held it to be his duty not to engage in any business connected with that House which could in any way be productive of pecuniary profit to him; and he feared that if the doctrines of the Attorney-General and of the hon. Member for Huntingdon were received, that as some would not be actuated by the motives of the hon. Member for Penryn it would be productive of considerable mischief. He would now state in what manner the influence of a Member of Parliament was likely to prove so. He had during the summer received letters from several gentlemen, who stated that they had projected a line of railroad similar to that in question, but they considered that as the name of Mr. Freshfield, jun. was attached to this, there was no chance for them in any competition with him. For these reasons, therefore, and without any retrospective views, and entertaining, as he did, as much respect as any Member of that House for the hon. Gentleman the Member for Penryn, and disclaiming any personal or party motives, he considered it his duty to take the opinion of the House, and to move, if the resolution was not strong enough, the addition of such words as would make it so. It was impossible to draw such fine distinctions between persons whose business was conducted within the same House and walls by the same
 464
 Mr. Law  thought the hon. Member was bound to give notice of his intention to move an addition to the resolution. The only question now before the House was, whether or not the hon. Member who was particularly referred to had been guilty of an infraction of the rules and orders of the House. He thought that any one who had an opportunity of hearing the perfectly satisfactory explanation of that hon. Gentleman must be of opinion that his case did not fall within the terms or spirit of the orders of the House. In conclusion he would observe that if the hon. Member for Truro were to give a notice for the purpose of bringing the question regularly before the House, he should certainly give him his strongest opposition.
 Mr. Harvey  expressed his entire credence in the statements of the hon. Member for Penryn, and did not doubt that he had done everything in his power to escape the operation of the resolution of the House. Yet he denied that his conduct or character were any defence, however it might extenuate the course he had pursued. It was idle to say, looking at the words of the resolution, that the partner of a Member of Parliament could conduct Parliamentary business, nor could the learned Member complain of it, for he had entered the House since its enactment. But as regarded himself the case was as different as it was vindictive, oppressive, and cruel. Parliamentary business had been for years his principal professional pursuits; by it he was realizing upwards of 2,000 l. 465
 Mr. Goulburn  would put it to the hon. Member for Truro whether that was an
 466
 Mr. Gisborne  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had the other night complained of what he called the ungenerous allusion made by some members to the course pursued by the noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire, relative to the temporalities of the Irish Church. Now he was not aware that an ungenerous allusion had been made in any way to that noble Lord. The allusion was not made to taunt the noble Lord nor any hon. Member; but it so happened that the proposition which the noble Lord on that occasion laid down, not with regard only to the Church of Ireland, but generally, was identically the same as that on which the resolutions were founded. That proposition was, that the State had the right of stepping in between the lessors and lessees of Church property, and if the State could give an additional value to that property which the Church could not give, then the State had the right to apply the surplus to secular purposes. That was the principle laid down by the noble Lord, and when he gave up the 147th clause of the Irish Tithe Bill he did not give up that principle, and the House dealt with the surplus as they judged proper. He approved of such a principle, because he was convinced that all Church property which was not absolutely defined by law or set apart expressly for the payment of the clergy was the property of the State. Formerly both Church and State acted on the principle that the tenth of all property on the surface of the earth, as well as all Church lands, ought to be
 467 The Quarterly Review, 468 l. 469 l. Black spirits and white, Blue spirits and grey, Mingle, mingle, mingle You that mingle may." 470
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  rose for the purpose of moving the amendment to the motion before the House of which he had given notice, and which was to the following effect:—" That it is the opinion of this Committee that by a new system of management an increased value may be given to Church lands, and that with the funds to be thus obtained provision should be made for the supply of religious instruction where the same be found deficient in proportion to the population." He was not aware whether he was out of form in putting this amendment, but he was most anxious to have the opinion of the Committee on this point.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  as the person who had moved the original motion was not disposed to interfere with the conscientious feelings which dictated the amendment, though the hon. Gentleman might take the opinion of the Committee in a distinct shape upon the proposition which he meant to make. Neither would he ask his hon. Friend to take any steps which should place him to a disadvantage with reference to his own opinion. These were two points upon which he would not ask the hon. Gentleman to yield. But he would take the liberty of submitting to him whether, with a view to the convenience of the discussion which had now been carried on for three nights—without prejudice to himself or the opinions which he entertained, or the proposition which he was about to make, or the time and manner of advancing that proposition—the hon. Gentleman would not be disposed to acquiesce in the suggestion which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) ventured to throw out, that the Committee should at once proceed to the immediate object of debate; the hon. Gentleman giving his notice to move his resolution as an amendment when the
 471
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  was at all times disposed to accede to the wish or opinion of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but on the present occasion, he submitted, the point he was about to raise was not a new point, it had been fully debated, and would not interrupt the progress of the debate beyond the period which it would otherwise last; and if he gave way on the present occasion without being told that he was out of form, he should be in this painful position, that he should not be able to vote for or against the motion, and it was with real regret that he was compelled to proceed with his amendment. He should, therefore, feel it to be his duty to persevere.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to observe, that he had put his proposal to the hon. Gentleman as a matter of courtesy, but he would now put his objection on a point of form. The right hon. Gentleman here adverted to the proceedings of the House when this subject was first introduced; the passage in the King's Speech referring to Church-rates was then read, and this resolution was then come to by the House—"Resolved that this House will, on Monday next, resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to consider of the payment of Church-rates." That resolution was come to; and upon that resolution they were now engaged.
 Mr. Bernal  rose and said, that undoubtedly he could not say that this question came upon him by surprise that evening, because the hon. Member had told him a few minutes before he entered the House, of his intention to move this amendment. He had told him that he had a strong doubt, nay more than a doubt, that his amendment might not be regular; and he still thought so. He did not think that in a Committee of the whole House upon Church-rates, they could with propriety go to the question of
 472
 Mr. Andrew Johnstone  expressed his willingness to submit to the decision of the Chair.
 Mr. Bernal  wished the Committee to agree to what he had suggested.
 Lord Stanley  said, it appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman was placed in a technical difficulty. He thought it would be extremely difficult for him to bring forward his resolution in the Committee, as an amendment on the proposition of his right hon. Friend; for this reason, that the object of the Committee was to inquire into the present mode of collection of Church-rates, and how far it was practicable to find a substitute for them, which substitute was proposed to be taken out of certain supposed surplus funds now the property of the Church. He was not going to enter at any length into this question, as it would be his duty to do so at a later period of the evening; but the amendment of his hon. Friend was to the effect that, for the purposes of such application, it was not legitimate (and in that opinion he concurred with him) to apply the proceeds of such revenues to this purpose. But if there were such surplus revenue as was anticipated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that spiritual revenue was applicable to the state of destitution to which the Established Church was admitted on all hands to be reduced at the present moment, with regard to the means for promoting education. He was himself strongly of opinion, that these funds were not so applicable; and it appeared to him that the only course which his hon. Friend had to pursue was this: to allow the discussion to go on. If the resolution of the Chancellor of the Exchequer went to apply these funds (a principle which his hon. Friend and himself thought an extremely objectionable one) to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, he had no hesitation in saying he had no objection. Let them proceed, however, to inquire how, if there were any surplus revenue, it might be most beneficially applied to the means and object which his hon. Friend and himself had so much at heart. He thought his hon. Friend was
 473
 Mr. Andrew  Johnstone withdrew his amendment.
 Viscount Sandon : The hon. Member for North Derbyshire (Mr. Gisborne), had attempted to cast a slur on some of the petitions which had been presented from various parts against the abolition of Church-rates, because they came from places, the names of which were not so pleasing to the ear, in point of euphony, as they might be; and that hon. Gentlemen, too, in talking of the farmers and others who had signed those petitions, asked whether they had been told the real state of the question—had they been told that the plan of the Government would not take one farthing out of their pockets? Now he would ask hon. Gentlemen on the other side, whether they ever made an objection to petitions coming from Ireland, praying for the abolition of tithes, or for the passing of the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill for Ireland, on account of the singularity of the names of the towns or places from whence they emanated? Again, he would ask, had those who petitioned against tithes been told what was the real state of the question at issue? Had they been told, that if tithes were abolished, that though they might not pay tithes in name, they would pay their amount in rent? So, in the instance of the Municipal Corporations Bill for Ireland, had the petitioners been made sensible of what was really the point at issue? What was the language of the hon. Member for North Derbyshire in reference to a meeting of prelates, on the subject of the intention of his Majesty's Government with respect to Church-rates? He had denounced that meeting of prelates as a vile cabal, and that it was as contemptible as it was vile! And for what? Why, for expressing their opinion in a manner which interested
 474 475 476 477
 Mr. Baines  said, that it was not his intention to trespass long on the patience of the Committee, as he was aware there were upwards of twenty Gentlemen around him anxious to offer their observations upon the subject under consideration. He wished, however, to have the opportunity of explaining some points which had been frequently adverted to in the course of the debate; and he promised that he would at least give to hon. Gentlemen a clear and explicit view of those sentiments which he entertained upon the subject, but not, at the same time, describing himself or pretending to be the representative of any body of men except that body which he really represented—he meant his constituents. Having had the honour to present a large number of petitions upon this subject, and having, at the same time, had the opportunity of communicating with the petitioners since the plan of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been brought under consideration, he was very happy in having it in his power to communicate to the House what appeared to him to be the sentiments of a large body of the people upon the plan. He thought he should have betrayed the trust reposed in him if he had not endeavoured to inform himself upon that point. Therefore he had taken measures to obtain that
 478 479 l. l. l. 480 481 l. l. l. 482 might disposed l. l. 483 484 485 486 Liber Regis 487 l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d., l l,. l. l. s. d., l. 488 l. l. s. d., l. s. d., l. l. l. s. d., l. s. l., l. l. l. l. 489
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had indulged his ingenuity in one part of his speech, by going into details of a project which, whatever its abstract recommendations, was certainly not before the House; and it really seemed as if in so doing be had felt there was a paucity of matter for immediate consideration. If such had been the feelings of the hon. Member for Leeds, his (Mr. Gladstone's) were, he confessed, of quite a contrary description. He should not therefore follow the hon. Member into the principle or details of that plan; but he should endeavour to reply to that part of his speech in which he attempted to maintain a position which, if successfully made out, would undoubtedly exercise a most material influence on the opinions of many gentlemen in that House. The hon. Member had quoted Degge and Blackstone in support of the quadripartite division of tithes, and to prove that under the law of that division the repairs of the Church fell originally on the bishop, and afterwards on the rector. Now, with respect to the bishops, the statement carried its own explanation along with it; because when they were told that of the tithes of the diocese one entire fourth-part went to the share of the bishop, it obviously referred to the period when the Church was in a missionary state—when it first made a settlement in a district, and when the bishop received the amount of contribution, and his clergy itinerated throughout the district. He left the hon. Member then to derive all the benefit he could from the admission that Judge Blackstone did allege that division to have prevailed in the darkness of the middle ages. With respect to the other authority—Sir Simon Degge—he wished the hon. Member had read a little further. He wished to know whether his authority contradicted this broad proposition, that during a period of more than five centuries throughout the whole period comprehended in what is legally denominated the memory of man, since the reign of Richard 1, it had been
 490 l. l. 491 492 493 494 495 496 497 l., 498 499 500 501 "The most remarkable peculiarity of the Roman policy, and that which is attended with the most salutary and beneficial effects, is to be found in their conception of the gods. That which is elsewhere a source of opprobrium, is the sustaining principle of the Roman constitution; for among them piety and devotion to the commands of heaven are held in the highest estimation; religion has taken deep root, and exercises an important influ-
 502
 Lord John Russell  begged to explain. The hon. Gentleman, in referring to that portion of his speech of last night in which he spoke on the subject of the ecclesiastical commission, seemed to impute to him that he shrunk from the responsibility which attached to him as a member of that commission. He begged to say, he did not wish to shrink from his responsibility, but, on the contrary, adopted it in the way proposed by the hon. Gentleman. Though he differed in some particulars from the report, as for instance, concerning the arrangement recommended respecting the deans and chapters, yet with regard to the general principle of the commissioners' plan he agreed with them. He had given his assent to those propositions in the commission, and he had no objection to state in the House, as he had stated elsewhere, that he had so given his assent. He thought the question for this House and for Parliament to consider, was, whether the plan proposed by that commission was on the whole prudent, safe, and efficient as a measure of reform; thinking it a safe and efficient measure of reform, he agreed to it, but he thought himself at liberty, in saying this, also to state that the propositions were not made by him, but chiefly
 503
 Mr. P. Thomson  would not have risen on that occasion, had not the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, imputed to those who opposed the motion, an attachment to the voluntary principle and a hostility to all religion. He had some right to deny that imputation; for he believed, that in no place there existed so strong a feeling in favour of the voluntary principle as in that which he represented, and he had refused to support the views of his constituents. A petition had been sent from that town, signed by 36,000 persons, who prayed for the adoption of the voluntary principle. He, however, had not hesitated to declare to the petitioners that he could not support their petition. He was prepared to contend that so far from the present measure embracing that principle, it was founded on a principle directly the reverse. The principle on which it was based was unquestionably that of the established church. If he understood what was meant by the voluntary principle, it was this, that the state was not bound to afford religious instruction to the King's subjects. It involved, not merely the question of the abolition of church-rates; but whether any payment whatever was to be made for the support of a state religion, and whether, therefore, there should be taken away from the church the whole of its present endowment. That was what he understood by the voluntary principle, and to that principle, he, for one, was most distinctly opposed. Did the ministers ever propose, in abolishing church rates, to leave the fabric of the church to be repaired by private individuals? No such thing. They proposed to take from that which he contended was a fund belonging to the state—to take from that which was a national fund—the means for supporting the fabric of the church instead of maintaining it by the tax at present collected for the purpose. The hon. Member for Newark agreed with him as to what the endowment of the Church should be, and what should be that national Church. He had
 504 505 506 l. 507 l. l. l. l. l. 508
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, whether the petition to which he referred, and the speech with which, upon his showing, it would appear to have been introduced, appeared upon the printed Votes of the House of Lords?
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  could only tell the hon. Gentleman, that he knew the facts through the usual sources of information. The law being in this state, he would ask hon. Gentlemen whether they were prepared to introduce any measure to enforce the payment of Church-rates? He did not think they were. He
 509 510
 Lord Stanley  said: Sir, at the present time of the night, and after the discussion has been protracted to the unusual period, upon a preliminary question, of not less than three nights, in which whatever could be brought to bear upon the subject, in point of legal investigation and of political and statesmanlike inquiry, has been already furnished by both sides of the House, but especially by my right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, in his opening speech, and by those convincing arguments which the House heard with so much pleasure, in the course of last night's debate, from the hon. and learned Gentle-
 511 512 513 divide et impera? 514 515 Cheers. Go on! 516 517 mandamus 518 519 520
 The Attorney-General  took the liberty of rising to remind the noble Lord that as he remembered, the Bill in question did not contain one word about making a Church-rate, but only as to the levying of it when made. There never had been a doubt as to the existence of a legal remedy for the levying of a Church-rate when once made, but he believed that there was no means to compel the making of a Church-rate.
 Lord Stanley : Then I should like to hear from the Attorney-General whether he was carrying out the intentions of this Bill, whether he was a party to the introduction of this Bill, providing a more effectual mode of levying Church-rates, the legal validity of which He denies.
 The Attorney-General  rose, amidst cries of "Order, order! Chair, chair!" and cheering. Having at length obtained a hearing, he said: I rise to order. The noble Lord has misrepresented what I said. I never denied the validity of a Church-rate when made by a majority of the vestry in a legal manner.
 Lord Stanley  resumed: I must say this is the oddest way of enforcing order I ever experienced. But as this part of the subject does not appear to please the Attorney-General, I will turn to another. The Attorney-General was probably instrumental in framing this Bill. Now it is rather remarkable that I find amongst its provisions a clause empowering the justices of the peace in certain cases to set
 521 No, no? 522 523 524 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 525 526 O'Connell 527 528 l. l. 529 530
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer and Mr. Wason  rose together. After a few minutes of confusion, mingled with loud cries of "Adjourn, adjourn!" and "Divide, divide!"
 Mr. Wason  stated, that he must put in his claim to be heard after the right hon. Gentleman had concluded. If that claim were denied, he would move the adjournment of the debate.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The hon. Gentleman will pursue whatever course may seem to him most proper; but as I am anxious to reply to some of the observations which have been made on the measure I have brought forward, I will now, with the leave of the Committee, proceed to do so. Hon. Members need not be apprehensive that my speech, on this occasion, will be a long one. The House may be perfectly sure, that I am too sensible of the indulgence which I am continually experiencing from the House. But, undoubtedly, I should be most unwilling, after the speech of my noble Friend, that the House were to go to a division on this question without an attempt on my part to remove some of the misrepresentations into which my noble Friend has been betrayed. My noble Friend has stated, that he considers this to be the last opportunity that will be given to the friends of the Church to
 531 532 533 "With regard to Church-rates, I conclude, from the language which the right hon. Baronet now at the head of his Majesty's Government, has recently held to his constituents, as well as from the sentiments expressed by him upon that subject in the last Session of Parliament, when he ranked among the Members of the Opposition, that the only difficulty that can occur to him as to the mode of achieving a settlement of the question, must be mere difficulty of detail. It must be remembered, that Church-rates constitute one of those burthens which press particularly upon the land; and as the burthens which bear more exclusively upon the agricultural interest have been especially alluded to in his Majesty's speech, it is not improbable that the burthen of Church-rates is included amongst them. I cannot take upon myself to say that it is so; but, knowing that the burthen of Church-rates is one of which the agriculturists greatly complain, I cannot help regarding it as one that will come under the consideration of his Majesty's Government." * * 534 "It is well known that I supported the measure brought in by the late Government for the transfer of the Church-rates to the public revenue. That measure has met with great opposition from the Dissenters. I, for one, cannot agree to the extinction of Church-rates. I think that there is an obligation on the State to provide for the repair of churches." "But I also think that the charge of providing for that repair, bears very unfairly on the land, and that subject is one which I had in view when, in the King's speech, reference was made to 'a method for mitigating the pressure of those local charges which bear heavily on the owners and occupiers of land, and for distributing the burthen of them more equally over other descriptions of property.' An interpretation has been put upon that paragraph, which is by no means intended. No new mode of general taxation is meant by it. It has a special reference to the Report of the Committee of last Session on County-rates, and to the relief of the agricultural interest from certain local burthens, of which the Church-rate is one." * * 535 536 hocus pocus hocus pocus 537
 Dr. Nicholl  bagged to refer to a case which had occurred in 1799 (the case of Gordon and another) when an appeal was made against a rate made by one churchwarden, after a vestry had refused to make the rate. The party was sued in the Court of Peterborough; the court affirmed the rate to be good, and ordered payment to be made. This rate, be it observed, was made by the churchwarden after the vestry had refused to make it. An appeal was then made to the Court of Arches, and the late Sir William Wynn (a high authority upon all ecclesiastical law) affirmed the sentence of the court below, with costs, and ordered the rate to be levied and paid.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I am willing, then, for the present to assume the law to be as stated by the learned Civilian; but, to my unlearned ears, it seems a distinction should be drawn of this sort. I rather apprehend that there is a great difference between an appeal against the legality of the rate when made, and an appeal to compel the making of a rate.
 Dr. Nicholl  recapitulated the facts. Application was made to the vestry for a rate, and they refused to make it. The churchwarden then made the rate on his
 538
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I can assure the hon. and learned Gentleman, that I am perfectly satisfied that he would not, for a momentary triumph in a debate, make any statement, except in the perfect conviction of his own mind, as to its application. Will he, however, allow me still to doubt the bearing of the precedent he has quoted on the proposition I have so broadly advanced? In that case, it appears that there was a rate made by one churchwarden; that, though the vestry refused to levy it, it had been made by that individual. My proposition regards the absolute absence of any legal power to compel the making of a rate, and the Arches Court held the churchwarden a competent authority to make it. Now, whether that case applies to rule all other cases of this nature or not, I must beg to reserve for future consideration; but, at present, I wish the Committee to observe that, even assuming this to govern the question, as far as it goes, it is yet the only one on the books; and, from the facts of that case, it appears that, by the adjournment of the vestry, the whole question of the making of the rate was got rid of. Again, if there be this remedy, how great must be the defect of the administration of the law which supplies it, or how great the negligence of the courts which apply it, if it has never been resorted to! How great must have been their remissness, who, having the power to remedy the evil, have allowed it to continue! Then, Sir, I have another authority as to the power of vestries. I could mention another case, in which the question was, whether persons inhabiting the King's palace were bound, or not, to pay this rate. But I have one authority more to show the power of a vestry to refuse the rate. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, on the discussions on the Irish vestry cess, said, "that he considered that impost to be of a very different character from that of church-rates; because the latter is dependent on the volition of somebody else besides the Church." The right hon. Baronet said,
 539 540 tristes Amaryllidi iras 541
 Lord J. Russell  would only detain the House a single moment. It appeared to him to be the wish of the House, that the debate on this Resolution, should close that night. If that were the wish of the House, to which he was very ready to accede, he hoped that if there were any hon. Members who wished to explain the reasons on which they gave their vote of that night, the House would permit them to enter into that explanation.
 Mr. Wason  endeavoured, unsuccessfully, to obtain a hearing. We understood him to contend, that the conclusions of Sir R. Peel, were not justified by the calculations into which that right hon. Baronet had entered on a former night, and to promise the House that, on a future occasion, he would show that if the bishops would apply to their own enormous tenures the same rule which in the Ecclesiastical Report they had proposed to apply to the property of the deans and chapters, a fund would be provided whereby the spiritual wants of 1,625,000 persons might be supplied upon the scale laid down by the bishops in their own report.
 Mr. George F. Young  seconded the motion, stating that he should not be performing his duty to his constituents, if he did not lay before the Committee their opinions and his own upon this Resolution. He had risen frequently to address the Committee, but had not been successful in obtaining a hearing, and he knew that not only were all the Members connected with the county of Durham anxious to be heard on this question, but also many other hon. Members from other
 542
 Lord J. Russell  had no wish to restrain any Member's right of speaking; but seeing that it was the general wish of the Committee to close the debate that evening, and knowing that there were many hon. Gentlemen most anxious to explain the grounds on which they were going to vote that evening, he had wished to persuade the Committee to give them the hearing which they required. He had not wished to put any restraint on their speaking. Quite the reverse. He left it completely to the Committee to decide, whether they would adjourn the debate, or take the further discussion of it now.
 Mr. Hedworth Lambton  declared, that he was anxious to state the case of his constituents to the House, and to explain the reasons of the vote he was about to give. He had attempted to obtain a hearing several times during the discussion of the last four nights, but had always been unsuccessful. He knew the difficulty of attempting to gain a hearing for his constituents at that late hour, and therefore he had adopted his present course.
 Mr. Harvey  said, he felt most anxious to address the House upon this great question, and had frequently attempted without success so to do. At the same time, he felt he could not do so with any advantage or satisfaction at that hour of the morning, and after a debate which had already extended over four entire nights. Nor could he venture to support the motion of adjournment, upon the plea that he had something altogether new to advance. That was a kind of arrogance he was not prepared to assume—yet, if he did so feel disposed, he should confidently rely upon the support of all the Gentlemen who had spoken, scarcely one of whom had not repeated what had been before, if not better, said. This they would do as a compliment to the attention he had paid to them. Indeed, so far as novelty was a guide, he thought that at least three hours of every four had been completely wasted. He hoped, therefore, hon. Gentlemen would agree to proceed to a division, and as consistency had once
 543
 The Chairman  said, that before the Committee went to a division, it was only fitting that it should be informed that the question before it would be the noble Lord's proposition, that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again. [ Cries of Go on.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  proceeded to address the Committee. We understood him to explain the grounds on which he had made the motion which had just been put from the Chair. He was anxious to state the reasons for the vote he was about to give; and he thought that he could do it in a few words. The debate had now lasted four nights, and on three of them he had endeavoured, but unsuccessfully, to address the Committee. He had also endeavoured to explain his sentiments in presenting a petition from his constituents, from whom he had the misfortune to differ upon this subject; but on that occasion the Speaker had interfered, and had told him, when he attempted to explain wherein he differed from, and wherein he agreed with his constituents, that he must sit down and reserve that explanation for another opportunity. Doubting much his power to attract the attention of the House for many minutes at that late hour, and feeling it to be his imperative duty to himself and his constituents, to state the opinions which he entertained on this subject, he thought that the best course he could pursue to accomplish that object was to make the motion, which he had done; and he had been the more inclined to pursue that course, from seeing the Chancellor of the Exchequer rise to reply after the hon. and learned Member for Ipswich had given notice, that he (Mr. Wason) was anxious to speak before the right hon. Gentleman. He was compelled by a sense of duty to inform the House, that he must, on this occasion, record his vote against the party with which he had so long and so cordially acted. The noble Lord then read a long extract from the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, for the purpose of showing that
 544
 Mr. Hedworth Lambton  said, that from the deference he felt to the wishes of the Committee, he should not press his opposition. He hoped, however, that he should have an opportunity of explaining the situation of his constituents in the county of Durham when the Report was brought up. It would be impossible for him to do justice to their cause at that late hour of the night, and he, therefore, would not injure it by commencing it.
 Mr. Ingham  wished to bring under the notice of hon. Members a simple fact, which he thought ought to be known to them before they proceeded to a division on this question. The noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland, in making a statement the other night for the purpose of showing the insecure tenure of Church property under the see of Durham, observed that there was a most marked contrast between the towns on the north and those on the south bank of the Tyne. On the north bank of the Tyne, he said there were stately buildings, large manufactories, progressive improvements of every description; whilst on the south bank, owing to the leasehold tenure of the land under the Church, all the same opportunities for improvement were neglected and thrown away. He had the honour of representing the great commercial town of South Shields, which was situated on the south side of the Tyne, and he could say, that all the houses and public buildings of that great and flourishing town were built upon
 545
 Mr. Pease  had also been most anxious to address the Committee on this Resolution, but had hitherto been unsuccessful in obtaining a hearing for his constituents. On former occasions, he had had to congratulate the House on its passing from intolerance to toleration; now he had to congratulate it upon passing from toleration to complete religious freedom, Had he been successful in obtaining the attention of the Chair, he should have felt himself bound to show the Committee, that whatever might be the representation respecting the prosperity of the town of South Shields made by its hon. and learned Member, there was no part of the
 546 l. 547
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  would not, at that late hour of the night, state any argument in support of the vote he intended to give against this resolution. He merely rose to mention the fact, that a public meeting had been convened in the town of Newcastle, in which it had been determined to petition against this plan for abolishing Church-rates. He would mention one fact of importance. In the county of Durham, within the space of a few years, a very extensive railway had been laid down, on which a company had expended 300,000 l.
 Mr. Harland  observed, that as a remark had been made in the course of the debate, that tenants had a legal right to a renewal of their leases, he agreed to this; and he would show that it was under the
 548 "That the Committee, having taken into consideration the petition of the dean and chapter tenants in the county of Durham, and the certificate from the contractors for the sale of these dean and chapter lands, it fully appears to this Committee, that the said dean and chapter lands, in the time of the prior and convent of Durham, were held by the tenants as estates of inheritance, according to the custom of copyhold lands, and so continued for some time after the dissolution of the said priory, and after the lands thereof were vested by Henry 8th, in a dean and chapter, till afterwards, by their many endeavours, some of the said tenants were prevailed on, and others constrained, to take leases in writing, and so to forego their accustomed way of holding. And whereas, it further appears that the respective tenants to the said lands, their heirs and assigns, had and have a right to renew their several leases from twenty-one years to twenty-one years for ever, paying three years' fine at the renewing of every lease. … It is therefore resolved by this Committee, and hereby ordered, that the said respective tenants have an abatement and reprize in their respective purchases of the said lands allowed to them by the contractors for the sale of the said lands valuably proportionable, and according to their present holdings."
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  returned his thanks to the hon. Member for South Shields (Mr. Ingham) for his speech, which would do much to remove the false notions which had gone forth to the public. As to what had fallen from the hon. Member for South Durham respecting the enfranchisement of the town of Shields, it should be recollected, that that enfranchisement was the spontaneous act of the dean and chapter, in order to lay the foundation of one of the most splendid and munificent monuments that ever did honour to any body of men. The measure in question was one which never could pass into a law; it was not founded on the common sentiment of the country, and was a violation of the most sacred rights of property.
 Sir Charles Burrell  said, that, having been intrusted with petitions from his constituents in opposition to the measure, he was bound, as far as he could, to support their views.
 Mr. Aglionby  could not let the leaseholders labour under the impression, which they might reasonably adopt from the tenour of the discussion during the last half hour, that their interests would be compromised by the decision of the House. He took the same view of the subject as the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Durham, and felt bound to assure his Majesty's Government that the details of that measure could not be carried into effect. Entertaining, however, as he did, this opinion, he was not led to the same conclusion as the hon. Baronet; for he (Mr. Aglionby) could net bring himself to vote against the resolution, the principle of which was to confer on the country one of the greatest boons that had been conceded for several years. He protested against the statement and figures on which the right hon. Gentleman relied; for he felt satisfied, that those who made the calculations on which he acted, consulted mere figures and theory, and not matters of practice.
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for the Tower Hamlets, in the course of his speech of that evening, had not been sparing in his attacks on the landed interest of the country; and it appeared to be his object to compare it with the manufacturing interest. Now he held a paper in his hand which contained the names of twenty-two hon. Gentlemen of the opposite side of the House, who formed part of an association called the Anti-Corn Law Association. This Anti-Corn Law Association was composed chiefly of manufacturers, whose object it appeared was to cry down the farmers and agriculturists, and deprive them of the enjoyment of their just rights. This association, thus avowedly formed for the purpose of putting down the Corn-laws, had drawn up and circulated a series of resolutions for the guidance of their supporters. The first resolution contained instructions for the purpose of forming branch anti-corn law associations, and directions as to the best means of obtaining the insertion of articles and reports in the metropolitan and provincial newspapers, and on the best mode of circulating extracts and transcripts of their proceedings. Now what, he would like to know, would be said by the manufacturers if the agriculturists leagued together against them for such a purpose.
 593 in toto 594
 The Marquess of Chandos  explained. He had said, that he was not opposed to the giving protection to the manufacturing interests; but if these were given it followed (and he contended for it) that the agricultural interest should also be protected.
 The Earl of Darlington  was far from advocating a system of free trade in corn, because he did not believe it could long be continued in a country like this. He was not disposed to contend against free trade generally, and he disliked prohibitory laws; but he held that there were cases in which there must be protecting duties. Why should agriculture be denied the protection that every other interest in the country enjoyed? He looked upon agriculture as the primary source of all the wealth of the country—the base upon which our commerce, trade, and
 596
 Mr. Gilbert Heathcote  much regretted that this question had been brought forward at all particularly when the agriculturists were only just emerging from that state of distress which had so long existed; but inasmuch as it had been brought forward, and he must beg to say, that it had been brought forward in a manner that did the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets the highest credit, he would use his humble efforts to combat the arguments of the hon. Member. At the outset he would say, the feeling of all the agriculturists was, that they wished to be let alone, from the largest to the smallest landed proprietor. The cry was, "Do not interfere—let us alone." Last year, and the year before, when the agriculturists came to Parliament stating their grievances, they were told they must relieve themselves, and they did now hope that the same language would be repeated. Now what was the real nature of the proposition? It was plainly and simply this, that it meant a low duty now, and none when the price of corn should be high. He did hope, however, that the agriculturists would never be deluded by the mistaken and treacherous advice—he used the terms in no offensive sense, which was now offered them. If there should be a fixed duty, and a famine should come, then the Corn-laws would be swept away altogether, he therefore did hope the agriculturists would be allowed to stand upon the ground which they at present occupied. Could there be any steadiness in prices if there was no permanency in
 603
 Mr. Miles , as a Member of the Committee to which the hon. Member alluded, must say, that it was very unfit to make any reference to the evidence before that Committee.
 Mr. Richards  remarked, that a fixed duty could not be maintained at high prices of corn in three successive bad seasons; and that we had at present the effect of a fixed duty and low prices (so we understood). The hon. Members for Middlesex and Southwark seemed to forget, in their schemes of benevolence, that if the competition of foreign land were permitted, the labourers from the country would be driven into the towns, where the wages would necessarily and instantly fall. They should look at what regulated the price of corn, as well as the price of wages; they should look to the circumstances of the country. The costs of production in it were greater than elsewhere, on account of the debt; and if the interest of that debt was to be paid, taxation must continue and prices remain. The hon. Member for Middlesex had a belief that farmers were not taxed, but, independently of their heavy local burthens, leather, iron, and various articles necessary in agriculture, were taxed. If it could be shown, however, that the safety and happiness of the people depended on the Corn-laws being repealed, he would vote that they be so. When the hon. Mover proposed any duty at all, he conceded the whole point. The farmer must be protected from foreign competition, or the foreigner's corn would displace his, and deprive him of remuneration. The hon. Member for Cornwall had laid down principles very correctly, but did not understand the application of them. He would thus illustrate the case:—Suppose a hatter not to be able to produce a hat for less than 24 s. s. s. s 615
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  wished it were possible to come to a satisfactory compromise upon a question, which, as long as it remained unsettled, would prove a source of perpetual discord between the two great interests in the state. But so much prejudice and mis-apprehension prevailed on both sides, that no alteration in the corn laws would take place, except at some alarming crisis, when it would be impossible to legislate temperately or wisely on the question, though it was of vital importance to the public interests. On the one hand, the farmers were taught to contrast the prices of corn in England with those of the continental ports, by way of convincing them that it was impossible to fix any duty which would give them an ade-
 608 "In the progress of society, interests have grown up, under the sanction of the laws which might be injured by extraneous interference, and the injury to them might materially affect the general benefit. The preference to articles of the first necessity of domestic growth is natural, and almost universal. The chief articles of subsistence in each country are almost wholly of home produce; and, in a country with a great density of population, may be only procured in sufficient quantity to supply the demand of the inhabitants at a considerable cost. In such a case, a foreign interference, which would lower the home price so as to check interior production, might, in a few years, cause that domestic industry and application of capital, which are the chief sources of supply, so far to decline as to afford a less quantity, and thus elevate the price to the consumer higher than it would be raised by trusting to, and by duly fostering and protecting home growth. It is on this ground, and this alone, that the protection, as it is called, to agriculture will admit of defence. It is to protect the consumer against a price too high, which would take place if a portion—by no means a large portion—of our supply depended on foreign growers of wheat, that any restriction on the trade in grain, can be justified." "Estimates have been presented to the
 609 l. s. 610 611
 Mr. Villiers  rose to second the motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. He said that he hoped that if he appeared to be eager to raise his voice upon this question he should be excused when he said that he sat in that House by the suffrages of men whose livelihood and whose interests were identified with the industry and commerce of this country, and that they considered, and justly considered, he thought, that those great interests were more affected by this measure than by any other and every other together. By this motion the industry and commerce of the country pleaded before the Legislature, and asked for liberty; and however anomalous it might appear in a commercial country boasting of a representative Government, for a quarter of a century they had offered up this prayer to the House without success; and it seemed that those that maintained these laws raised the issue to the country, whether it was to the skill and industry, the manufacturing and commercial enterprise of the country, or to the virtues of the soil, or the owners
 588 589 s. 590 locus standi 591 s. 592
 Mr. Harvey : Though not surprised at, would respect the sensitiveness of hon. Gentlemen, and passing by the Poor-law Committee and the Commissioners, would revert to facts within his knowledge. In the county of Essex the average wages of a labouring man, with a family of five or six children, was ten shillings a week, nine shillings of which was expended in the indispensable article of bread or flour; thus leaving the miserable surplus of one shilling, wherewith to pay for rent, clothes, beer, tea, sugar, soap, fuel, and the other indispensable necessaries of life. This being so, he would boldly ask, whether it was not of the first importance
 606 607
 Mr. Harvey  concurred in the expression of regret, that this subject should now be under discussion, not because it ought not to be discussed, but the preface to it was a four nights' debate, which ill prepared the minds of hon. Members for the grave investigation which its vast importance demanded. There was a peculiarity in all debates upon the Corn-laws, to which he could not refrain from adverting. It was the peculiar and original doctrines propounded by Gentlemen calling themselves the landed interest, and who rarely came out upon any other occasion. We had just had a specimen in the hon. Member for Lancashire. He had discovered that there was a vast and pernicious difference between the price of bread and the price of flour—which he attributed to a combination of the bakers, some of whom resided in Bermondsey. Now he was little prepared for this discovery, and still less for an illustration of it amongst any portion of his respectable constituents. Any one who walked the streets would find there was no paucity of bakers—they were far too numerous to admit of the confederacy which the suggestion implied. The hon. Member for the county of Lincoln (Mr. Handley) had alluded to what fell from him on a former debate upon the Poor-laws, in which he had said that every man was entitled to an adequate remuneration for his labour, and if he were willing to work, but could not find it, the local authorities were bound either to find him work, and wages for it, or wholesome and sufficient food without it. He said so still. He had that day heard from the mouth of an assistant Poor-law Commissioner, who was receiving a salary of 700 l. s. 605
 Mr. Harvey  was the more ready to adopt the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer than his reasons for it. He would save the right hon. Gentleman from any collision with the Speaker, and would proceed to notice not what had passed in a Committee, but what he had heard elsewhere; and thus adopting the farce often observed when speaking of what had passed in another place. He saw no reason for assigning to an assistant Poor-law Commissioner a higher protection, or more courtesy, than was shown to a Peer of the realm. He had heard it stated that 10 s.
 Mr. Handley  agreed in the opinion which had been expressed this evening, that the real interests of the manufacturer and the agriculturist were essentially the same; and he was willing at once to abandon the Corn-laws when it should be proved injurious to the general interests of the country, and when it should be found convenient and desirable to the State that all monopolies whatsoever should be destroyed. But it was his firm opinion that that period would not arrive for many years to come. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was bound to show that some great evil had been produced by the existence of the Corn-laws, and that the interests of the manufacturing classes had suffered great detriment from the operation of the laws, before he could justly call upon the Legislature to repeal a measure which was calculated to uphold the agricultural interest of the country. As regarded the question of price, he would contend, and it was a fact which was incontrovertible, that poverty was at the highest and consumption at the lowest when corn was cheapest. The hon. Member for South-wark had said on a former night, when speaking on the subject of the Poor-laws, that if a man obtained 10 s. s. d s. d. s. 602
 Mr. Gally Knight  would not occupy the House one moment. He had heard the observations of the hon. Member for Southwark, with great regret, for he thought them calculated to sow dissension among the different classes of the community. He did not think the present moment the best suited for its consideration; and he was also of opinion that the landed interest of the country was burthened with so much taxation that it ought to have some protection. He did not mean to favour any one class at the expense of another; and if there was distress in the manufacturing districts, he would not allow the Corn-laws to stand in the way of their relief. But the contrary was the fact: the manufacturers were prosperous, and the agriculturists were in distress. He must, therefore, oppose the motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Member told the House that he would not protect one class at the expense of another, but yet the hon. Member told them that he would vote for the continuance of a tax that served one class at the expense of all others. It. was the landed proprietor who was interested in this tax, and not the farmer. The landed proprietor paid no tax in this country. Every tax that bore upon the landlord had been taken off, whilst the taxes on the rest of the community remained. The Corn-laws ground the people down to misery. How was it possible that with such prices the manufacturers of this country could compete with the foreign manufacturer. The hon. Member who spoke last had expressed his regret that the hon. Member for Southwark should have alluded to the subject of the Poor-laws on
 613 Knight d. d. a laugh s. s. 614
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to order. No rule had been more absolutely laid down with regard to discussion in Parliamentary debates, and nothing could be more supported by good sense and principle, than that until a Report was laid upon the table of this House, it was not competent for any hon. Member to make use of any knowledge he had acquired on any Committee of that House, until the other Members had been equally informed upon the matter. He thought the hon. Gentleman himself would, upon reflection, see the propriety and justice of such an arrangement.
 Mr. Ewart : Then the noble Marquess wished to establish one ingenious complicated system of monopoly. But however suitable the sentiments of the noble Marquess might be to the rural population of Buckinghamshire, or to the agricultural orgies at Aylesbury, they were not in accordance with the principles of political economy. He could inform the House, that a Commissioner who had been sent out from this country had an interview with no less a person than Prince Metternich, who quoted Adam Smith, one of the greatest philosophers that ever lived, against the principle of his mission, and said—"Take our corn and we will take your manufactures." He was sorry, that on so important a subject as that of the Corn-laws the people of this country were not sufficiently awake to their own interests. But the labourers of this country were now beginning to understand this question; and ere long it would be so well understood by the people of England, that they would make the aristocratic interests tremble. The present Corn-laws operated prejudicially in two ways—they acted as a burden upon the consumer, and they prevented the extension of the national wealth.
 Mr. Ewart , as a member of the Anti-Corn Law Association, defended the proceedings of that society. It had been formed on the principle of self-defence; and when the noble Marquess adverted to the fact of the existence of an anti-corn
 595
 Sir John Tyrell  thought the topic of the Poor-laws had been very unnecessarily introduced by the hon. Member for Southwark; but as it had been alluded to, he could say, that the opinion of the county of Essex on that subject was to give the new system a fair trial. The landed interest had been described by some hon. Members as an overgrown and overbearing interest, and its right to protection had been denied. Now he would take the liberty of asking the Representatives of the manufacturing and mercantile interest, whether they would wish to have disclosed to the eyes of the public at large the extent of the protection they received? He held in his hand a list of seventy or ninety articles of manufacture, on which an import duty varying from twenty-five to fifty per cent. was imposed, while the amount of the protecting duty in favour of the landed interest under the present Corn-law, did not exceed ten per cent.
 Mr. Guest  said, that the hon. Member for Essex having asked the manufacturer to state why the growers of corn should now have a protection when they were protected to the extent of twenty-five and fifty per cent. or more, he (Mr. Guest) being concerned in the manufacture of iron, begged to inform him and the House what was the state of the case in the iron trade. The price of iron was at this time about 9 l. l. s. 612 l. s. s. s.
 Mr. Clay  briefly replied, and the House divided:—Ayes 89; Noes 223: Majority 134.
 Mr. Clay  presented several petitions from various places against the Corn-laws, and then spoke as follows:—Sir, in rising to make the motion of which I have given notice, I venture to remind the House that I have at least this claim on its indulgence—viz., that I have twice postponed my motion from motives of respect for the House and regard for its convenience. First, in 1835, in order that I might not impede the progress of the English Municipal Corporations Reform Bill; and, secondly, last Session, in consequence of the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the state of agriculture. It appeared to me that I should be wanting in the respect due both to this House and to the large classes of the community interested in the result of that inquiry, if, during the sitting of the Committee, I had pressed my motion. I feel that I have been rewarded for this forbearance by the valuable illustrations which the evidence given to that Committee affords of the working of our present system. I shall only further premise that it will be my endeavour to treat the great question which my motion raises—a question second, assuredly, in importance to none which can occupy the attention of the House—calmly and dispassionately; I wish to bring to the discussion of it no weapons but those which reason or facts can supply. The history of our legislation with respect to corn, must, of course, be so familiar to every Gentleman who hears me, that it is only necessary for me to allude very briefly to its leading features and more remarkable epochs. From the conquest until nearly the middle of the fifteenth century, the exportation of corn was wholly prohibited.
 563 s. d. s. s. s. d, s. s. s. d. s., s., s. d. s., d. s., s. s. d. s. s. d. s. 564 s. s. s. s. d., s., s. s. s. 565 566 567 568 569 ad nauseam, 570 The revenue of 1815, from the four great sources of the income of
 Sir William Molesworth : In reply to the arguments that are usually advanced in favour of the present Corn-laws, I cannot do better than repeat the arguments of my hon. Friend, the Member for the Tower Hamlets. He showed the injuries which it does to the growers of corn, by maintaining a false hope of high price. This causes a large quantity to be grown, and a low price. Then, when the quantity is diminished by bad harvests, and the farmer should gain in price what he loses in quantity, the letting in of corn from foreign countries where the harvest has been good is equally injurious. These are, however, objections only to the existing Corn-laws; they are not arguments against a total prohibition of corn, nor are they arguments in favour of a total repeal of the Corn-laws. I support the motion of my hon. Friend as a preliminary step to the abolition of all Corn-laws. The question of the Corn-law, as an economical question, is with reference to its effect on wages and profits. I object to a Corn-law because it tends to produce low wages and low profits. With low wages and low profits the bulk of the community is uneasy, miserable, and discontented. The common objection to the Corn-law is that it makes bread dear. But this objection in itself, separated from all other considerations, is hardly a solid one; for it is evident, if dear bread be accompanied by high wages, that dearness is a matter
 597 598 599 600 601
 Dr. Lushington  was rather anxious to address a few words to the House in consequence of the remarks which some hon. Gentlemen had made upon the principle of blockade, and also in consequence of some observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and who had not accurately described the grounds on which Russia had proceeded. In the first place, he must say that he entirely concurred in what had fallen from his noble Friend, that it would be extremely inconvenient to make public any fact or circumstance connected with the question in dispute with Russia at present. Ever since he had had the honour of being in that House, he would venture to say, that whatever Ministers had done, or might do, he never had given, nor ever would he give, his voice for the production of papers during the time important negotiations were going on, which the production of those papers might seriously affect, and he was satisfied, that if they were produced in the present case, the effect would be mischievous to the nation, and calculated to disturb the peace, of the world. Therefore, relying upon his noble Friend, who relied upon the confidence of
 638 de jure et de facto de jure de facto de jure de facto 639 640
 Captain Berkeley  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had so well expressed the reasons upon which he should give his vote in support of the noble Lord resisting the production of these papers, that he did not think it necessary to repeat them; but he could not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman in the construction which he had put upon the letters that had been read by the noble Lord. He hoped, when the whole of the letters should appear before the public, the matter would assume a much more
 641
 Mr. O'Connell  really did not know what conclusion the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had arrived at, from the tenor of his speech and from the observations in which he had indulged. Of this, however, he was satisfied, that the hon. Gentleman was looking merely to the proceedings now pending respecting the treaty of Adrianople. It had been stated, that Russia did not maintain a force to keep up a blockade; but this was not the fact, for the Vixen was seized by a ship of war. He was sure that no person in that House understood the subject better than the hon. and learned Civilian, nor was there any one who could make it more clear and intelligible; and, therefore, if he had not understood his learned Friend, it was not his learned Friend's fault. He understood his hon. and learned Friend to say, that there were two species of blockade—the one against a hostile
 646 The Gazette The Gazette The Gazette The Gazette The Gazette 647
 Mr. Buller  said, however the case might be with respect to the marines landed in Portugal, those marines in other places killed people without going to war. He did not wish to see their maritime force reduced now, but that force ought not to be a mere sinecure. It would seem as if the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) preferred settling the differences of the country rather by lawyers and ambassadors than by a navy. He recollected that when the present Ministers sat upon the other side of the House they were very stringent upon the employment of a force of 10,000 men in Portugal to protect the Government of that period. That pretence was laughed at by the present Ministers. In the present case there was a conspiracy, the Queen herself being the chief conspirator, and 600 British marines were landed to protect her. The case was about the same as if a French squadron came up the Thames, and a force of French marines was landed, while the King was proceeding to seize upon the opposition Members in that House. He was glad to see, however, that the noble Lord, however slow and inactive he might appear as regarded great and powerful States, had at last begun to vindicate the honour of the country vigorously as regarded New Grenada—and that already three sacks of flour had been seized in the port of Carthagena. When a weak State offended, then the majesty of the British empire was put forth, but when a powerful State gave cause for quarrel the noble Lord, had recourse to lawyers and negotiation.
 Mr. Goulburn  protested against this mode of dealing with the army estimates. He did
 662
 Captain Boldero  wished to know under what head the marines who were serving in Spain were included—whether among those in service on land, or afloat. When he had voted the number of marines last year he little thought they would have been engaged as they had been.
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  did not think the observations of the last speaker either apposite or useful. They were likely to do harm. Mr. Pulteney had succeeded by his speeches in turning out a political opponent, and then he involved the country in a bloody and protracted war.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  observed, that this was a question of great and vital importance to the commercial interests of this country. It was not merely as to whether an individual had been robbed of his property, but as to whether we should be allowed to extend our commercial relations to other countries, or whether we should be restrained from doing so at the whim and caprice of Russia. That power had put forward a justification of the blockade, in the first place; on the ground that Circassia was a hostile country, and afterwards on the plea that it was merely for the purpose of enforcing municipal regulations, and had resorted from the one plea to the other at her will and pleasure. But what were the facts of the case? A British subject applied at the Foreign-office to know whether he could send his vessel to a foreign port for the purpose of commerce, and he was told by the noble Lord to look into  The Gazette 648 "As to the arguments used by Prussia, after taking possession of Hanover as a permanent dominion, they appeared to him to be obviously untenable upon any principle of justice. Prussia stated France held Hanover by right of conquest, and under that right assumed to dispose of it. But, without any reference to the forcible and outrageous manner in which France originally took possession of Hanover, it was clear that, at the time they undertook to transfer it to Prussia, they did not hold it at all, for they were not in possession of that country, having evacuated the whole of it, with the ex-
 649 Audi alteram parlem "'It is therefore with the profoundest humiliation that we have learnt that our country is marked on all the maps printed in Europe, as a portion of Russia; that treaties, of which we know nothing, should have been signed between Russia and Turkey, pretending to hand over to the Russians these warriors that made Russia tremble, and these mountains where her footsteps have never come; that Russia tells in the west that the Circassians are her slaves, or wild bandits and savages, whom no kindness can soften, and no laws can restrain. We most solemnly protest in the face of Heaven against such womanish arts and falsehood. We answer words with words, but it is truth against falsehood. For forty years we have protested triumphantly against accusations with our arms; this ink, as the blood we have spilt, declares our independence; and these are the seals of men who have known no superior save the decision of their country—men who understand no subtle arguments—but who know how to use their weapons when the Russians come within their reach. Who has the power to give us away? Our allegiance is offered to the Sultan, but, if he is at peace with Russia he cannot accept it, for Circassia is at war. Our allegiance is a free offering; he cannot sell it, because he has not bought it. It is by arms, not by words, that a country can be conquered. If Russia conquers us, it will not be by arms but by cutting off our communications, and making use of Turkey and Persia as if they were already hers—by rendering the sea impassable, as if it were her own—by blockading our coast—by des-
 650 "This was what Oliver Cromwell did in a like case that happened during his government, and in a case where a more powerful nation was concerned than ever Spain could pretend to. In the histories of his time we are told, that an English merchant ship was taken in the chops of the Channel, carried into St.
 651 "This, Sir, was Oliver Cromwell's manner of negotiating; this was the method he look for obtaining reparation; and what was the consequence? It produced no war between the two nations; no, Sir, it made the French government terribly afraid of giving him the least offence; and while he lived, they took special care that no injury should be done to any subjects of Great Britain." 652 "George R.—His Majesty has received information, that two vessels belonging to his Majesty's subjects, and navigated under the British flag, and two others, of which the description is not hitherto sufficiently ascertained, have been captured at Nootka Sound, on the north-western coast of America, by an officer commanding two Spanish ships of war; that the cargoes of the British vessels have been seized, and that their officers and crews have been sent as prisoners to a Spanish port. The capture of one of these vessels had before been notified by the ambassador of his Catholic Majesty, by order of his court, who at the same time desired that measures might be taken for preventing his Majesty's subjects from frequenting those coasts, which were alleged to have been previously occupied and frequented by the subjects of Spain. Complaints were also made of the fisheries carried on by his Majesty's subjects in the seas adjoining to the Spanish continent, as being contrary to the rights of the crown of Spain. In consequence of this communication, a demand was immediately made, by his Majesty's order, for adequate satisfaction, and for the restitution of the vessel, previous to any other discussion. By the answer from the court of Spain, it appears that this vessel and her crew had been set at liberty by the viceroy of
 653 654 principiis obsta 655
 Mr. C. Wood  then moved, that 33,700 seamen and marines should be ordered for the service of the ensuing year.
 Mr. Wood  replied, that both were included under the same head.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that with regard to the ships sent to Portugal, they were sent there in the fear that disturbances might occur affecting the property and perhaps the lives of British subjects, and, if necessary, to protect the embarkation of the Queen of that country. They were especially instructed not to interfere politically, and he believed the circumstance had had a great effect in preventing the effusion of blood. With respect to the necessity that existed for so large a force, he would only observe that other maritime powers were maintaining a large force, and he agreed with the hon. Member for Bath that the best way of preserving peace was to be prepared for war.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he had before stated what the real object was of sending the six British ships up the Tagus, and of landing the marines. Whatever the hon. Member might have read to the contrary in some journals the object was as he stated it, and the force had strict orders not to interfere. They were landed only to protect the embarkation of the Queen, if it should be found necessary.
 Mr. C. Wood  believed, he could give the noble Lord precise information on the subject. One account had been made up to the loth of February, and another (since the noble Lord's motion) up to the 24th of the same month. Now, he (Mr. Wood) was not aware that there had been any supplies furnished for the use of the Queen of Spain, save those included in these returns. He was further enabled to tell his noble Friend, that he did not think it possible that such could be the case, because, in point of fact, no supplies of any sort had been furnished for more than one year. The whole of the naval stores had been furnished two years ago, and were included in the returns which had been laid before the House last Session. The greater part of these bad been furnished during the time of Sir R. Peel's Government, when his noble Friend was Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He had further to say, that all the supplies that had been furnished during the last year, would be covered by an expense of 60 l
 Mr. Maclean  wished to know if they would do so without requiring any guarantee for those already furnished?
 Mr. Maclean  did not mean to say, that he went to the full extent of the motion of the hon. Member for Bath, who asked for the production of all the correspondence between the British and Russian Governments; but, he could not see, that because it was the duty of the Executive to take certain steps which were deemed to be of consequence to the dignity of England as a nation, that therefore the House was to be refused access to all papers, however useful or important they might be in the assisting them to come to a proper understanding of the state of the question to which they related. He thought it would have been very satisfactory to the House if they could have obtained from the noble Lord some declaration of his sentiments respecting the treaty of Adrianople; for it was important to consider, that when that treaty was made it was protested against by the Duke of Wellington. As soon as a copy of it was transmitted to that noble Duke, he protested against acceding to any of the propositions made by Russia. It would, therefore, be of importance for the noble Lord to tell the House whether he assented to or dissented from those propositions; for the whole question respecting the commerce of the Black Sea depended upon whether by that treaty of Adrianople was or was not guaranteed to her the possession of the coast which she had blockaded. In all the antecedent treaties it would be found that the possession of Circassia by Turkey was recognised; at least there was such a guarantee given by Russia as would not allow the conclusion that she had acquired possession of Circassia by any of the former treaties. But if they would look into the fourth section of the treaty of Adrianople, they would find that there
 637 The Gazette
 Mr. Maclean  observed, that there was no guarantee on that occasion, that there was nothing but an exchange of notes.
 Mr. Maclean  begged leave to put a question or two to the noble Lord (Palmerston) relative to Spain. A ship, he understood, had been lately sent out with fresh stores and ammunition for the Queen's troops, and he wished to know whether it had been sent out by his Majesty's Government? Whether, also, there had been any payment made by the Spanish Government for the stores and ammunition already supplied? Whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government still to continue furnishing supplies of that nature, and if so, whether they would do so without obtaining payment or a guarantee of payment, for those already furnished?
 Mr. Maclean  said, if they did not serve in or near their vessels,—if they were carried into the interior of the country, as now in Spain—if, in fact, they acted not as marines but as infantry, he should like to know if the widows of officers who might be killed would be entitled to pensions. With regard to Portugal, was it for the purpose of protecting British lives and property, and securing the embarkation of the Queen, that the marines were landed, or was it not rather with the intention of supporting a political party?
 Mr. Robinson  did not wish to press the Government to make any premature disclosures. He agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex that the present discussion had not been satisfactory on the part of the noble Lord; and he thought that in the correspondence between Mr. Bell and the noble Lord, Mr. Bell had by far the advantage. He thought also that it was rather an extraordinary thing that the noble Lord, who was not only at the head of the Foreign Department, but was one of the Ministers of State, and therefore cognisant of all the Cabinet secrets, should not be able to answer the plain and simple question put to him by Mr. Bell—and that at a time some years after the treaty of Adrianople—whether a British merchant had or had not the right to trade with the coast in question. If the noble Lord meant to say—as he understood the noble Lord to state—that it was a doubtful point—that Russia had asserted her right to the coast in question, but that the British Government was neither prepared to admit it on the one, nor perhaps altogether in a condition to controvert it on the other,—then he would ask the noble Lord how long the merchants of this country were to be prevented carrying on trade with the eastern shores of the Black Sea? How long was this discussion to be continued with the Russian government? And when
 644 645
 Sir Henry Hardinge  agreed in many parts of the speech of the hon. Member for Evesham, but thought that upon the whole, considering the present stale of Europe, the vote was necessary. If the country entered into a treaty, they were bound to adhere to it; but he certainly objected to the manner in which the marines were employed in Spain at present. But what he had risen for was to protest against the sentiments uttered by the hon. Member for Bridport. When that hon. Gentleman said, they ought not to interfere to save the life of a Sovereign when in danger, he would say, that that was a sentiment which (with all deference, and without any discourteous intention to the hon. Gentleman) involved what he could not but designate a ferocious principle—and he thought the only reasonable excuse that the Government offered for landing the troops on the occasion referred to was, that they thought it absolutely necessary for the protection and safety of the Queen. If such was their reason, they were fully justified; but if those troops had been landed in support of such democratic principles as those laid down by the hon. Member for Bridport the conduct of those at whose orders they were landed ought to be denounced in the strongest possible terms. He thought the noble Lord opposite ought really to rise, and fully satisfy the House upon the subject.
 Mr. Warburton  concurred in the opinion of his hon. Friend that the landing of the marines was an interference. In India they had an agent at the tributary Courts to guide the operations of the Government, and to support it by a promise of military aid if necessary. Was not this interference; for, in fact, the fear of losing his life was the only protection the people had against a despot? He hoped another case like the late one in Portugal would not occur again.
 Mr. Barlow Hoy  said, that if the hon. and learned Member for Bath intended to lay down a new system or code of maritime and international law, he would go with him; but, at the same time, he did not see that England was in a position to proclaim the law propounded by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. Whatever might be done in the matter to which the motion referred, would be done in the spirit of fairness.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose and spoke to the following effect: I hope for the indulgence of the House on account of the hoarseness under which I labour, and, on that account, I shall make a very short speech. I wish to call the attention of the House and the Government to a subject of no ordinary importance, a subject interesting, not because it refers to individuals who have lost their produce and merchandise, but because it involves a question on the principles of international law, and also a question of peace or war. Some time ago, a vessel was fitted out, and before she proceeded to her destination, application was made in the regular quarter—to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs—to ascertain whether there was any impropriety or danger to be apprehended if a vessel landed goods in any ports on the Circassian coast. The application was made because fears of danger were entertained from the interference of Russia. The answer returned by the Government, through the noble Lord, to the merchants who applied was, to look to  The Gazette The Gazette 622 623 624 625 626 627 628
 Mr. Hume  thought, from the argument of the noble Lord, that he could not have read or heard the terms of the motion. The object of that motion was one of vast importance to the merchants of this country. It was to ascertain whether the coast which was alleged to belong to Russia had really been ceded to that country by the treaty of Adrianople. Undoubtedly Russia had the right to make her own regulations with regard to trading on her own coast; but the question was, whether the portion of the coast in question really belonged to her? He would admit the doctrine which had long been maintained in this country, that one hostile power had a right to blockade, provided it had sufficient force. But the question as to the origin of that blockade was, whether it was a hostile country or not? The noble Lord had given the House no information on this point; he thought there could be no secrecy about it. There ought not to be any. The terms of the treaty of Adrianople ought to be explicit, and thoroughly understood. He would ask the noble Lord what was the object of the office which he filled? Why was a Secretary for Foreign Affairs appointed? Was it not, that he should carry on a diplomatic correspondence with foreign powers, in order to ascertain what were the relations of commerce and of friendship which existed or could be established between those powers and the British nation? When the merchants of England, then, were desirous of legally extending the trade of this country with foreign nations, they very naturally applied to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs to ascertain what was the state of that particular country or coast with which they wished to trade. With reference to the point now under consideration the question was a very simple and obvious one—was the Circassian coast in a state of blockade or not? In whose possession was it? and did any blockade exist there? He contended it was perfectly open to any British merchant to make those inquiries of the noble Lord; but, instead of frankly giving the information required, it appeared to him, if it was possible for language to disguise a plain and simple question, undoubtedly the noble Lord's correspondence had effected that object; and although
 642 643 St. Petersburgh Gazette Gazelle
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask, whether any arrangements were made with the French court to co-operate against the liberties of Portugal? He wished to know whether the reports circulated in France were correct, which stated that there was an understanding between the French Government and the British minister, that they were ready to aid the Queen and her party in their conspiracy against the constitution which the Queen had sworn to defend. Did the hon. Gentlemen opposite mean to contend, that there was a distinction to be drawn between sovereigns and subjects as regarded a violation of the law—that if one were to be executed for treason, the other was to be allowed to escape.
 Mr. Hume  said, he should like to have some indication of the necessity that existed for so large a force. He wished also to know, why it had been thought necessary to send six ships of the line to Portugal.
 Mr. Hume  insisted that the marines were landed to protect the Queen in case she could not succeed in overthrowing a popular Government, with the assurance that if she failed she should be protected. What did the people of Lisbon think of their conduct? Why it was ridiculed every night on the stage, in a piece in which Admiral Gage, Lord Howard de Walden—and the British marines, were represented running away, and the Portuguese thrusting them out. This was never the case before. The very landing of the marines was an interference. They had no right to protect any traitor. If a King or Queen became traitors to the people let them take the punishment they deserved.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was his intention to move a reduction of this number, which was considerably greater than it was fifteen years ago, but he would take the discussion on another stage.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, he had heard with as much delight the sentiments of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last as he did with surprise the answer of the noble Lord (Palmerston) to the speech of the Member for Liskeard, who spoke as he ever did, with good sense. For his part it mattered little to him, if the honour of the country and justice towards their allies were supported, whether that object was effected by their navy, or by lawyers and ambassadors. If the marines were not permitted to act in Portugal, why were they allowed to act in Spain? In both cases it might perhaps be non-political interference; but what were they to say to General Evans, who spoke of himself as representing the sentiments of the people of Westminster? What description of interference was this? What interference called upon the people of England to pay 500,000 l 659 Oh! Oh! 660
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he, like the hon. Member for Bath, was an advocate for peace, but there were two ways of maintaining it; and the real and proper way was to adhere to the rules which we had laid down as those by which we should be guided. To acquiesce in any demands that might be made by Russia was not the way to maintain peace. This country should neither commit nor submit to aggression. Turkey had no right to make any cession to Russia; nor did Russia before the treaty of Adrianople recognise any right in Turkey to the possession of Circassia. The papers of that night had brought an account of the condemnation of the Vixen, which was the final act on the part of the Russian government. In the treaty of London, a reserve was made, to the effect that Russia should not in any war with Turkey gain any acquisition of territory, and we further reserved to ourselves the right of resisting any such acquisition if we deemed it necessary. The course pursued by Russia was extremely dangerous to our trade with Trebizond, and to our general commerce in that quarter. Was it to be permitted that the Autocrat should close up the Black Sea against us? Ought we not to have a fleet of British men-of-war there? The trade with Trebizond, which amounted to a million annually, required at least that protection, and a British fleet there would at once put an end to such audacious interference. If Russia were allowed to proceed as she had proceeded, the Black Sea would soon
 629 mare clausum
 Sir Edward Codrington  maintained that that House had a right to know precisely the situation in which the country was placed in respect to Russia. He had expressed the opinion before, and he was still of the same opinion, that the difficulty in which we were placed was owing to the uncertain way in which this country decided in matters of this sort, owing, perhaps, to a change of Government and politics. He thought he could show that Russia, not only on paper, but with sincerity, was formerly determined to execute the treaty of London. Now, would any man say, looking to that treaty that it was not in the power of England and France to force Russia to abide by the terms of the treaties she had entered into? If this were not the case, then indeed he must agree with the hon. and learned Member for Bath that all treaties were mere nonsense. With reference to the Greek question, he had no doubt of the sincerity of Russia; but it was in consequence of the Government showing a disposition to break faith, that Turkey forced Russia into a war; and then we left the Turks in the lurch, as we always did, and as we had done in the case of Spain. With regard to the present case, he had said two years ago that it was our duty to stretch out a hand to Turkey; and after the restoration of Greece, if we had done so, we should have prevented the war with Russia, and left Turkey in a much more favourable position. It was our duty to protect our trade with Turkey at any price, and to support that which was of more importance—the honour and integrity of the country. It was our duty to show that when we felt we were treated unjustly we had the power and the will to resent any insult put upon British subjects. He hoped the noble Lord would produce the papers for which the hon. and learned Member for Bath had moved.
 Viscount Howick  would not detain the Committee for any time, but as it was necessary to take a vote for the number of men in the army for the ensuing year, before the Mutiny Act could be passed, he trusted no opposition would be made to it. So much discussion had taken place on Mondays and Fridays, that he had not had an opportunity of bringing the Army Estimate forward at an earlier period, and unless the vote was agreed to that night, it would be hardly possible to get the Mutiny Act passed before the Easter holidays. He should, therefore, move a vote for 81,311 men for the year 1837.
 Viscount Howick  said, the right hon. Gentleman ought to remember the Ministers were at the mercy of other Members, and when motions were made on supply days the Government business could not be brought on.
 Lord Mahon  said, it might perhaps be in the recollection of the noble Lord that he had a few nights ago expressed his apprehension that the return of 540,000 l
 Viscount Palmerston : The hon. and learned Member for Bath, when he rose, promised the House that he would condense what he had to say into the narrowest compass; and never did an hon. Member more correctly keep his word than he did. But I never yet heard a speech of the same length which contained more extraordinary and new matter, or more astounding propositions, than the hon. Gentleman has promulgated. He has laid down opinions upon public law which I confess (though I may be ignorant on these matters) appear to me to be calculated to raise the shades of Puffendorff, of Grotius, and of Bynker-shoek—men who devoted their lives to the study of international law. But not only did the hon. and learned Gentleman broach the most extraordinary doctrines when he adverted to what he maintained to be the proper law for nations to act upon, but, having afterwards complained of my interfering too much in the affairs of other countries, he has had the goodness to set me a task which, whatever expectations he may have formed, I certainly could not achieve. Sir, the hon. and learned Member gravely proposed, that I should occupy myself by devising and putting together a code of international law to entitle any country to trade with another, in spite of the contingency of wars which may rage in foreign lands. We are to get rid of this difficulty at the same time that this new code comes into operation. But there should be a perpetual peace, I presume; and, armed with this single parchment, I am to address myself to the nations of the world. Now, I confess, that whatever may be the talents of persuasion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, I have too humble a notion of my own capacities to think the task which he has set me is one that I could fulfil. The hon. and learned Gentleman asks me to state precisely what is the principle of international law on which his Majesty's Government intend to proceed; and he says, do you mean to maintain the antiquated doctrine, that the belligerent has the right to blockade—are you prepared to maintain that principle? I think, first, that the hon. and learned Member is mistaken in supposing it to be the doctrine in the United States that every country has a right to trade. Sir, it is not necessary that I should agree to the production of the papers connected with the treaty of Adrianople, because I
 631 632 633 Gazette Gazette Gazette 634 635 636
 Viscount Palmerston  said, they were satisfied with the guarantee that had been obtained by the right hon. Baronet, the
 620
 Viscount Palmerston  was not able to answer the hon. Gentleman's first question, for he was not aware that any such ship had lately been sent out to Spain; but with regard to the other questions, he was quite prepared to say, that his Majesty's Government did intend furnishing stores and ammunition in accordance with the terms of the treaty by which they were bound.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that few words were necessary in answer to so good-humoured and jocose a speech as that of the hon. and learned Gentleman's. He spoke not only as a senator, but in his professional character. He could assure him that impartial justice was exercised equally towards small as great states. After the force of 1828 was landed in Portugal a despotic Government was
 658
 Viscount Palmerston  said, it was no part of the Instructions, nor was it the intention with which the English fleet was sent to Lisbon, nor did he believe it was any part of the instructions to the French fleet, to co-operate to overturn the constitution in Portugal; and the best proof that the case was as he had stated, was afforded by the fact, that though the forces were certainly strong enough to exercise a decided influence on this question, it exercised no such influence, and the two parties were allowed to settle their own differences.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he was called on to repeat what he had said more than once. It was distinctly one of the orders of the admiral who commanded the British fleet in the Tagus to afford the necessary protection to the Queen in case of danger. He was instructed to place himself in communication on the subject with his Majesty's minister on shore, who was more likely to be well-informed of the course of events: and it was to protect the person of the Queen from danger, which was considered imminent, that the troops were landed. They retired, however, the moment the danger ceased, much to the disappointment, he believed, of one party, who thought, that because they had landed they were about to interfere in the political question; but the moment the danger
 661
 Mr. O'Connell  said, what when the hon. Member had brought forward charges he should have been prepared to sustain them. It was evident he was unable to do so, and he had not now even attempted to say he could.
 Lord Ashley  hoped the noble Lord would understand that it was not his intention, nor that of those with whom he had the honour to act, to make any personal charge against Mr. Horner, or the other Factory Commissioners. They had thought it their duty, however, to question that gentleman's acts. After the explanation which the noble Lord had given, he would not press his motion.
 Lord John Russell  said, that before moving the Order of the Day, he was desirous to say a few words on the subject of a motion of which the noble Lord opposite (Ashley) had given notice for this evening, relative to the operation of the Factories Act. From the terms of the noble Lord's notice, he presumed that he alluded to certain regulations which had been established by Mr. Horner, one of the factory inspectors. About the end of January last, a complaint with reference to the operation of those regulations had reached him, and it then appeared to him to be a matter of much doubt whether these regulations were in conformity with the Act. The matter had been accord-
 666
 Lord John Russell  had said, that he thought the present clause better than the one in the English Bill. Although he would by no means say that the town-councils would not elect the persons best fitted for the office of sheriff, he nevertheless thought they would be more likely to do so if they knew that their choice would be submitted to the Lord-Lieutenant.
 Lord John Russell  said, he gave full credit to the motives that had induced the hon. Member to propose his amendment; but he could not think it was advisable to follow every particular enactment of the English Municipal Bill. If the hon. Gentleman were of a different opinion he could have objected to the modes of electing aldermen which was different in the two bills. He (Lord J. Russell) did not think that dissimilarity any fair ground of objection, and if he had again to bring forward the English Bill he would introduce a similar clause. On the whole he thought it necessary that the Crown should have some power, at least a negative one, in the appointment of officers so closely connected with the administration of justice.
 Mr. Hindley  expressed a hope that the Attorney-General would state to the House upon what grounds he had arrived at the conclusion that the regulation adopted by Mr. Horner, for ascertaining the age of children, was illegal.
 Mr. French  said, that if the clause stood alone, he would support the proposition of the hon. Member for Dundalk. He, however, thought the statement of the noble Lord satisfactory, and he hoped the hon. Member would consent to withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. Shaw  did not think that the noble Lord had given any reason for the altera-
 674
 Mr. Tennent  said, he was prepared with all the details, but that at present he could not supply the dates.
 Mr. Emerson Tennent  said, it was not to be supposed, in alluding to circumstances which had occurred in another county, with which he was unconnected, and of which he had no personal recognizance, that he had spoken otherwise than on information derived from others, but on the accuracy of which he had every reason to rely; and he regretted that the short notice which the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny had given him on Saturday last, of his intention to bring this matter before the House this day, rendered it impossible for him to communicate with those parties from whom he had received his previous information. The House would remember that he had alluded to this case on a former occasion, not Merely for the purpose of exhibiting the prejudicial effects of the order against setting aside jurors, but as tending to show the abuse of the powers vested in the Irish Executive, by their indiscriminate exercise of those prerogatives of the Crown, which should always be applied sparingly and with prudence. He had likewise introduced the case of M'Carron, because it was one which had excited the utmost alarm throughout the north of Ireland, not merely from the savage deliberation of the murderer, but as exhibiting the almost impossibility which existed in Ireland, from the confederated feelings of the Roman Catholics, of apprehending or bringing to justice those criminals who had committed outrages on Protestants. The circumstances were briefly these:—A Protestant whose name he had forgotten, ventured to take a farm out of which a Roman Catholic tenant had recently been ejected for nonpayment of rent. Shortly after he was assaulted and most barbarously beaten by this M'Carron and two other confederates. Being of a peaceful disposition and hoping, as he stated, that a display of kindness and forgiveness on his part might induce a correspondent feeling on that of his neighbours, he forbore to prosecute, and pardoned his assailants. The farm which he had taken was at some distance from another which he continued to occupy, and on which he resided, coming daily a
 670 671 alibi 672
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the great object of the clause was, to secure to the country the efficient administration of justice by officers who should not be the subjects of popular election, but appointed by the Crown. If the plan which had been adopted in England and Scotland were a good one, it would still be a question whether or not it would be advisable to extend it to Ireland—there was certainly no part of the empire in which the exercise of any of the functions of the law was more important. He thought that responsibility should be attached to the recommendation and appointment of sheriffs, and that the clause secured that principle. There was one consideration that might have some weight with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, which was, that this principle was by no means a novel one. In many towns the recorder was popularly elected, subject only to the approbation of the Lord-Lieutenant, and as only one individual was sent up that control was inoperative.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  said, he rose
 673
 The Attorney-General  said, the House must perceive that he could not be prepared to state his opinion upon an important question, the details of which were not a little complicated, in the off-hand manner which his hon. Friend required. He could, however, state, in confirmation of what had fallen from his noble Friend near him, that upon the matter having been referred to him for consideration, he had taken the utmost pains to inform himself upon the subject, and had stated to
 667
 The Attorney-General  on the Order of the Day being moved, begged to call the attention of the House to a passage in the speech delivered by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, the Member for Scarborough, when the Irish Corporations Bill was last before the House. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had then alluded to a speech delivered by him three years' since, in which it was imagined that he had expressed himself in approbation of the assassination of Archbishop Sharpe. Now he would say with reference to that assassination, that he had always looked upon it as a most atrocious and cowardly murder. He had spoken of it, in the speech referred to, merely as an illustration of the state of public feeling in Scotland during the reign of Charles 2d. He had ever reprobated the act of assassinating that helpless old man and must disclaim having ever expressed any approval of that Act.
 Lord Morpeth  expressed a wish, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, Mr. O'Connell, would withdraw his motion, for the purpose of allowing the House to go into Committee on the Bill. He could again bring it forward towards the end of the evening, or on some future occasion. He would take the opportunity of saying, that other accusations against his right hon. friend, Mr. O'Loghlin, which had found their way from the Committee on fictitious votes to the Ulster Times newspaper, were also most unfounded.
 Mr. Grove Price  begged to know whether any body of British marines were employed in the field upon that occasion, whether they had fought under the British flag, and under the supreme command of General Evans?
 Mr. Bingham Baring  thought, that the agricultural ought to make every concession it could to the commercial interest of the country, provided it did not go to the extent of a repeal of the Corn-laws. In his opinion, however, the adoption of the principle which governed the Sugar Refining Act, would be more difficult in practice than the plan of averages and calculations to which the right hon. Gentleman opposite objected. The process in sugar refining was more nice, and therefore more open to fraud. Averages and calculations were not so difficult, as was found by a late trial in France, and to show that they would be generally alike, it was only necessary to state that the French average of seventy-eight per cent. for flour, and twenty-two per cent. for refuse, was about the same calculation which would be made in our corn market. The resolution before the House, if agreed to, would do no more than sanction the principle, and if the thing could be effected without fraud, there was no doubt that it would
 687
 Admiral Adams  thought the return altogether unnecessary, and extremely objectionable. In all cases of accident to any of his Majesty's ships care was taken, according to the Articles of War, that a
 693
 Mr. Aaron Chapman  opposed the motion. It would establish a very dangerous precedent, and cast a slur on the character of many gallant officers who had met with misfortune without any blame attaching to them in the slightest degree.
 Sir T. Troubridge  appealed to the House and to the nation whether it would not be most unjust, after officers had been tried by regular courts-martial according to the Articles of War, to require them to encounter before an inadequate tribunal, as he maintained that House was, a second trial on the same charges?
 Mr. Hume  could see no injustice whatever in his motion. He did not see how it could be refused unless Government wished to screen abuses. If the House rejected it, the country would say that they were anxious to protect every species of mismanagement.
 Captain Pechell  did not think anything invidious was intended by this motion to the navy, or he should be the last in that House to support it.
 Sir T. Troubridge  denied that there was any intention or disposition on the part of the Admiralty to screen any individual whatever. But the course proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex was at once improper, incorrect, and unjust, and therefore he should oppose it by every means in his power.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the information for which he asked were granted him, he could show the loss of life and property occasioned to the country to be immense. Unless he were allowed the means of making out a case, it would be impossible for him to bring the subject forward in such a manner as to be worthy the attention of the House.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that the information was asked for in what he must consider a partial form. It was impossible to determine whether blame could be attached to the commander of a ship on account of its loss, unless the House
 694
 Sir if. Inglis  objected to the return, because the information it would furnish would be much too limited to enable them to arrive at any conclusion with certainly. Besides, the hon. Member for Middlesex should recollect that his Majesty appointed the commanders of his own ships, and that the House of Commons could have no pretensions to interfere with the management of the navy. Neither should it be forgotten, that the law which passed sentence on an officer who had been found wanting in his duty, did not authorise the publication of the sentence and its circulation over the whole empire. The return moved for by the hon. Member would virtually be a list of new convictions, or a new bill of indictment against the parties whom it concerned, without giving them the opportunity of defending themselves.
 Mr. Richards  said, that no Bill ever submitted to that House, was more carelessly and inconsiderately framed than the present. It professed to be a Bill for the abolition of imprisonment for debt, except in cases of fraud; and yet there was not one of its provisions which made it fraudulent to contract a debt in any case, or which imposed any punishment for doing so. It was, in his opinion, a crude and ill-digested measure, and would be infinitely more mischievous in its effects than the law as it now stood. It appeared to him to offer direct encouragement to debtors to give undue preference to creditors; and greater facility would be given than at present for committing fraud in this respect. If imprisonment for debt were an unjust and unnecessary evil, why did not the hon. and learned Gentleman content himself with proposing to retain the goods of the debtor, without reserving the power of imprisonment to the Crown? This was, in fact, contradictory to the principles on which the measure was founded. He strongly objected to the Bill, on the ground that it would give extended power for the recovery of debts only to individuals suing in the superior courts. As regarded the great mass of creditors, it would curtail rather than extend the remedy against debtors. To persons who claimed an amount not extending to 100 l.,
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, that the enactments of the Bill by no means bore out that which assumed to be its principle, and that it was viewed by the trading in-
 696
 The Attorney-General  said, that in due time he hoped to be able to convince the hon. Gentleman and the present opposers of the measure that it was calculated to benefit creditors. He thought the practice of discussing the principle of a Bill in Committee an inconvenient one. The third reading would afford an opportunity for that full discussion, without which he should much lament that the measure should pass.
 Mr. Mark Philips  said, he was not opposed to proceeding with the Bill on factious grounds; he only wished for some delay that would afford him the opportunity of communicating with his constituents, whose interests were deeply involved.
 The Attorney-General  thought it inexpedient to re-agitate a question which had been already decided on in a previous Committee.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he had heard it alleged as a reason for the introduction of those words into the clause which exempted Members of Parliament from arrest in cases where, according to this Bill, other persons would be liable to it, was because the Bill would not pass another place without them. Now he thought that this House, if such were the case, would, by consenting to this clause without the proposed amendment, be doing a very unhandsome office for that other place.
 Mr. Finch  was sure that for one Member of the other House, who desired the exemption in the clause, before the Committee, there were twenty Members of that House who were anxious to enjoy it. He would vote for the Amendment.
 Mr. Mark Philips  was of opinion, that a question affecting the character of that House ought not to be settled in so thin a House, and advised a postponement of the amendment.
 The Attorney-General  had introduced the words into the clause exempting Members of Parliament from its full operation, not with reference to any opinion that might be entertained of the measure itself by that or any other House, but because he believed the introduction of such words to be just and proper. The clause gave a remedy against the person of a debtor after neglecting to comply with the certain requisite forms and orders of court, &c. But he had considered that a Member of Parliament ought to be protected from all arrest, in order that he might attend to the proper discharge of his duties as a Member. If he were not so, false debts might be sworn to against him, and he might be kept away from the House by a malicious creditor when it was absolutely necessary for the interests of his constituents that he should be there. In such a case he might lose the pleasure of listening to the eloquence of the hon. Member for Knaresborough. By the present Bill the creditors of a Member of Parliament would be placed in a much better situation than they were in before, inasmuch as while, by the present system, all the property and even the servants of Members of Parliament were privileged, they would by the present measure have a remedy against all their property, whether landed, personal, or funded; in short, of every description whatsoever. They would gain a great deal and lose nothing. Under such circumstances why should hon. Members wish to alter the division which had already taken place upon the matter in a House much fuller than the present?
 Mr. Richards  said, he should be sorry to contribute towards doing anything which might prevent hon. Members listening to the Attorney-General's learned exposition of the laws in that House. He was only answering the sarcasm of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He would, however, maintain his objection to the whole Bill, as altogether impracticable and impertinent, and he hoped the hon. Member for Ipswich would persist in dividing the House, in which case he would certainly give him his vote.
 Mr. George F. Young  might be induced to support the principle advocated by hon.
 698
 Mr. Aglionby  did not think that the proposal of the hon. Member for Ipswich would interfere with the proper discharge of their Parliamentary duties by hon. Members; the more especially as, by a fair statement to the Commissioners, gentlemen would be released from personal restraint. He therefore should support the motion of the hon. Member.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that no portion of the privileges of Members of Parliament was so much objected to out of doors as that which the Attorney-General wished to perpetuate. He therefore hoped that if the hon. Member for Ipswich failed now, he would renew his exertions on a very fit opportunity.
 The Solicitor-General  had not expected that this matter would have been again discussed that evening and the whole case re-opened. It was not fair to absent Members, nor was it even fair to those present. He could not say that his mind was made up on the subject; but he certainly should, at present, support his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General.
 Mr. Scarlett  stated, that in his judgment this was a question of the privileges of the people, who had a right to elect even a fraudulent representative if they pleased, and also to give him the protection which under the present law he enjoyed. On the abstract question he had not made up his mind.
 Sir J. Hobhouse  agreed with the Solicitor-General. He had not made up his mind fully on the subject, and thought that an improper moment to decide on it. If the privilege, which the Attorney-General proposed not to alter were invidious, it was in proportion to its invidiousness that the House should discuss it fairly.
 The Attorney-General  remarked that he was not personally interested in the matter, because, representing the city of Edinburgh, he did not want a qualification, and he was on principle opposed to the exaction of qualifications from Members of Parliament. But if the proposal of the hon. Member for Ipswich, to strike
 699
 Mr. Harvey  thought, that the hon. and learned Attorney-General had made an appeal very likely to defeat its own object. He called on hon. Gentlemen opposite to support the clause, otherwise it would lead to the abolition of all qualification. In plain terms, he said, you Conservative Gentlemen are known to be beggars—men of straw, sitting by virtue of paper qualifications, and if you suffer this protection to be abrogated, you will expose yourselves to an examination which will at once detect your property and your fraud. Could any suggestion be more monstrous and insulting! Then it was said the Bill, without this clause, would be lost in another place. For his part he would be deterred by no such apprehension. Let the disgrace attach to the proper parties, and we ought not to protect ourselves by imputing intentional misconduct to others. If the Bill should return to this House with the obnoxious clause restored, we must meet the exigency when it arises. It might so happen, that it would be better to accept the Bill so prejudiced, but at all events, let it go forth to the world by whom the dirty deed was done.—What was the evil apprehended? That a Member of Parliament might have to confess himself a bagger, and moreover, that he had committed perjury. And was that the man to protect! He (Mr. Harvey) was against a compulsory qualification, but so long as the law required it, so long ought it to be palpable and tangible,
 Lord J. Russell  was willing to admit that the proposition made by the hon. Gentleman had met with very general support, but it was in a very thin House, while from the aspect which the question now assumed they were undoubtedly placed in a very awkward situation. It was admitted by the hon. Gentleman himself, who introduced the subject, and by the hon. Member for Bridport, whose amendment he had expressed his readiness to adopt, that they were not now prepared to submit any substantive proposition or to enter into the discussion in committee. The hon. Member proposed to go into committee to consider the laws regulating the importation of foreign corn with a view to allow the manufacture of the same in bond for exportation, having no proposition to submit to the committee. In his view of the matter, it would be much more wise, and certainly a much more regular and usual mode of proceeding, to postpone the committee until they were ready to make a definite proposition to that effect. Instead, therefore, of going at once into committee, and postponing the proposition, he should move that the debate be adjourned till that day three weeks.
 Mr. Hawes  was of opinion, that any measure on this subject ought to originate with the Board of Trade itself.
 Mr. Hawes  imagined there never was such a reason given for opposing a private Bill as that which had been assigned by the hon. Member for Finsbury, and, to come to a decision on this question, the House would have to decide whether Church property was public property or not. The Bill was to be re-committed, in order that the hon. Member for Finsbury might put one single question. He (Mr. Hawes) begged to put in his disclaimer as to any interest, directly or indirectly, in this or any other railway, but he thought he should be able to show from the enacting clauses of the Bill itself that there was not the slightest foundation for opposing its further progress. It was provided that the 30,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, whoever heard the observations he had addressed to the House before, must know that it was impossible for him to resist the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Bridport, because he had expressed himself not only favourable to the introduction of a measure for the purpose of allowing corn in bond to be ground and exported, but that it was his anxious desire to assist in the introduction of a measure having that object in view, provided it could be effected in a manner that would be safe to the public revenues, and at the same time occasion no danger to that protection which was afforded to the landed interest by the corn-laws. He had no objection to allow the House to go into Committee, for then every hon. Gentleman would have an opportunity of bringing forward his plan, and he himself would also be able to submit his views in a more regular and detailed form to their consideration. He had no plan, however, which he could bring forward, but that which he had already stated to the House.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that on con-
 685 686
 Mr. P. Thomson  begged to explain. What he had said was, that he had made a proposition to the parties, which they declared would be of no advantage to them.
 Mr. Wood  said, he had only the same answer to give to the hon. Member's question as he had already given, whatever might be the accounts of the newspapers.
 Mr. Wood  said, he was not aware that either the Admiralty or the Government had any telegraphic communication with Paris. As far as he knew, the last infor-
 683
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he was not aware the hon. Gentleman had given notice of these questions; however, he (Mr. Wood) could state that no accounts of any description had reached the Admiralty and he had no means whatever of judging whether the accounts alluded to by his hon. Friend were true or not.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that his attention had been called to this subject, and the question was, would this House interfere to protect poor people who had not the means of protecting themselves?—It appeared by the deed which referred to the property in question, that the Bishop of London demised certain lands to the parties alluded to for a period of seven years, and it further appeared that the lessors were to give three months' notice to the lessees should they at any time require the land for building purposes. Now, laying aside
 681 l.
 Mr. Maclean  rose to ask those questions relative to Spain of which he had given notice on the previous evening, but not seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, who, he was afraid, was absent from indisposition, he would take the liberty of putting them to his hon. Friend, the Secretary to the Admiralty. He wished to know if there was any truth in the accounts which had recently
 682
 Mr. Maclean  observed, that perhaps his hon. Friend might have supposed he had asked him if any account had been received from General Evans, and he would now ask whether any had been received by telegraph from Paris.
 Mr. Robinson  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice—namely, "that the laws which prohibit the manufacture of foreign grain, flour, and meal, in bond, for exportation, are injurious to the interests of British commerce and navigation, and unjust in restraining the free employment of capital and labour in the United Kingdom, whilst they afford direct encouragement and undue advantage to the foreigner in a valuable branch of trade, not only with other states, but with our own colonies, and that it is expedient to alter and amend the same." He would ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Secretary of the Board of Trade, upon what grounds he could oppose this resolution, for he (Mr. Robinson) was prepared to show that the right hon. Gentleman, in opposing it, would be acting directly at variance with the opinions he had ever professed. He believed that the opposition of the Government to his resolution arose from the same pressure which had prevented them from acceding to any alteration in the present Corn-laws—the pressure of the agricultural interests; but he contended, that whilst the farmers and landed proprietors of the country would suffer nothing by the adoption of his resolution, the trade and commerce, and shipping interests, would derive most important advantages from it. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would oppose his motion upon distinct, tangible, and specific grounds, and not put him off as he had done last Session, by mere evasion. The right hon. Gentleman had asked him the other day why he did not bring in a Bill on the subject. Now, it was evident that he, a Member unconnected with either of the three parties, might as well abandon the subject altogether, as hope to pass a Bill through that House. By the law, as it at present stood, they might have warehouses full of bonded corn and flour, gradually deteriorating in condition, whilst there was an enormous demand for it in a manufactured state in the Brazils, the West Indies, British North America, and other of our colonies. By the present law, they were not to manufacture these articles in bond, and by that restriction it
 684 l.,
 Mr. Robinson  did not wish the discussion to proceed upon his motion, being ready to take the sense of the House upon the amendment at once.
 Mr. Robinson , in withdrawing his motion, suggested that the House should now go into committee  pro formâ
 Mr. G. F. Young  seconded the amendment with great pleasure, because he thought it a happy expedient for uniting the House in support of the principle advocated by the hon. Member for Worcester, to which he had not heard any valid objection started by the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he thought all technical difficulties on this question would be surmounted by the amendment which he should now propose, and that amendment was, that "the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of taking into consideration the laws relating to the importation of foreign grain, with a view to the manufacture of the same in bond for exportation."
 The Speaker : Does the hon. Member mean to divide?
 Mr. Hume  said, undoubtedly there was some difficulty in the way of proceeding. He thought, however, the best plan would be to appoint a Committee to ascertain how the Archbishop obtained possession, and what right he had to the custody of these Parliamentary documents. The fact was, this was not his motion; it belonged to the hon. Member for Finsbury and, under all the circumstances, perhaps, it would be better to postpone its further consideration till the second Tuesday after the recess.
 Mr. Hume  contended, the surveys he had moved was were a Parliamentary document, and it for the archbishop to satisfy the House w he got possession of it. That House as not bound to stand up as the protector of stolen goods, Here was a
 692
 Mr. Hume  would then leave out the words "copies of," and move that the original surveys themselves should be brought into the library.
 Mr. Hume  then moved for the production of "copies of all the Parliamentary surveys of church lands preserved in the library of manuscripts at Lambeth, and which were made under an ordinance of Parliament in 1646."
 Mr. Hume  seconded the resolution with great satisfaction, because he felt that the restrictions of the present laws were injurious to all classes of people. He could not conceive why the Government did not itself come forward with a measure of the character and principle embodied in the resolution of his hon. Friend, the Member for Worcester.
 Mr. Pease  said, he had heard nothing to induce him to vote for the re-commitment of this Bill. It was well known that the value of a railroad would be considerably lessened if it were to be crossed by several other lines.
 Mr. Wason  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  could not consider, that he was discharging his duty if he did not call the attention of the House to a circumstance which had taken place in the Committee on this Bill. In the observations he was about to make he begged the House distinctly to understand, that he had no connexion, either directly or indirectly, with the Company. On the contrary, he thought, that the extension of the line of this railway would be productive of great public good, and he hoped it would be attended with a proportionate advantage to the Company. The facts of what occurred before the Committee were, that four miles being proposed to be added to the Great Western Railway, coining up to Paddington, it would have to go through the Paddington estate belonging to the see of
 679 l., l. 680
 Mr. Tooke  was in a situation to state, that the bishop was only a joint occupier in the land, and had only a one-third interest. He could assure the House, that the bishop had not received one shilling as fine or compensation—all the benefit he had derived was in common with the others, and merely as an increased rent.
 Mr. Hall  begged to ask the hon. Member opposite, whether the sums of 23,000 l. l.,
 Sir C. B. Vere  thought, the plan proposed by the hon. Member for Worcester might be beneficial if it were applied to corn now in bond, but not if it was in-
 689
 Sir Edward Codrington  merely wished to remind the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, that last year he presented a petition to the House from a Mr. Surrey, who expressed himself ready to put all his mills under bond, if he could be allowed to grind his own corn into flour and to export the whole. So, then, there was one individual ready to meet the right hon. Gentleman on that ground.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  complained of the unfair and difficult position in which the representatives of the agricultural interest were placed in reference to the present question. He very much doubted whether any precautions could be adopted that in practice would be found efficient to prevent fraud. If fraud were not prevented, the result would be highly prejudicial to the landed interests. He feared that one of the objects in going into committee upon the subject was to level another attack against the interests of the agriculturists. Feeling, however, that he was not then in a position to resist the motion, he would consent to go into committee, protesting, at the same time, against any attack being made against the interest to which he was attached, and which he did not think very fairly treated.
 Mr. Mark Philips  thought the hon. Member for Bridport had now put the question into such a tangible shape that the House could not but embrace the opportunity it afforded for enabling them to come to some final arrangement of this important subject.
 The Attorney-General  said, he should be very well pleased if the surveys in question could be produced. They were made in the time of the Commonwealth, and embraced, no doubt, a vast quantity of most important and interesting information with respect to ecclesiastical property in the country; but, consisting as they did of no less than forty folio volumes, he did not see how they could be transcribed and printed without incurring an amount of expense which would really be most enormous. How were they to order an officer to go into the Archbishop's library and transcribe them? And if they could, who was to pay for the transcription? If they were to be printed, it should be under the charge of the Record Commission, and those only should have copies who were willing to purchase them.
 The Attorney-General  could not believe the hon. Member serious. His motion was quite unexampled. There was no precedent for it whatever. If it were produced at all, why should the library of the House of Commons, any more than that of the House of Lords, be fixed on as its place of custody? He had great respect for the privileges of the House of Commons, but he greatly doubted whether they had the power of ordering these surveys of ecclesiastical property to be produced.
 Sir M. Rolfe  said, the hon. Member now shifted his ground; his motion was "for copies of all the surveys;" he now wanted the original only.
 Sir Samuel Whalley  said, the parties were some of his constituents, and he hoped their rights would be protected, and that the House would express some decided opinion upon the subject.
 Sir T. Fremantle  presented a petition against the Great Western Railway Bill. Nothing could be more dangerous than where two railways crossed each other, as fatal consequences might ensue from two trains, proceeding with great rapidity, coming in contact. It was against this that the petition particularly prayed.
 Mr. Clay  was understood to say, that the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, had not denied the fact, that considerable disadvantages arose out of the practice of not allowing foreign corn to be ground when in bond. The right hon. Gentleman had gone further, and acknowledged that an alteration might take place with great advantage to the country, but he coupled that admission with a declaration that the parties most interested did not wish for the change.
 Mr. Clay  had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that nobody had asked him to interfere for the purpose of granting permission to grind corn in bond; but in his (Mr. Clay's) opinion, that was not a sufficient reason for a Minister of the Crown determining not to act in a manner which would be beneficial to the general
 688
 Viscount Sandon  had always voted for the maintenance of protection to the landed interests of this country, but he could not offer any opposition to the motion before the House. Even if there was a slight difference between the averages of flour and corn, he should be ashamed, as an agriculturist, to oppose a motion of this kind, seeing that it might be productive of great benefit to the general commerce of the country.
 Mr. C. Russell , in moving the third reading of the Great Western Railway Bill, begged to state, in order to correct any erroneous impression, that the Paddington estate was vested in trustees for the benefit of the representatives of the lessees and of the see of London, one-third part only of the clear annual rent going to the see. There was a mortgage on the estate of about 23,000 l.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, said he would avail himself of the opportunity of putting a question to him.—It might be in the recollection of the noble Lord, as he was sure it was in the recollection of many hon. Members of that House, that on the 20th of April last a motion had been made by his hon. Friend the Member for Lancaster, for an humble Address to his Majesty praying that he would be pleased to send a consular agent to Cracow. The noble Lord, as a Minister of the Crown, assured the hon. Gentleman on that occasion that it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to send a consular agent to reside at Cracow, and on the ground that such was the case had entreated the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his motion. The hon. Member in consequence of that assurance,
 702
 Lord Dudley Stuart  said, that in consequence of this most extraordinary contradiction on the part of the noble Lord, and of which he had now, in the hearing of the House, made admission, he would give notice that he should take as early an opportunity as he could avail himself of after the recess of bringing the subject of Cracow under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Robinson , in moving the second reading of the East India Maritime Officers' Bill, said that all members both of the last and present Board of Control, had agreed in the Report, which stated that by the rule of the Directors of the East-India Company, certain officers had been excluded from the list who were entitled to compensation. When the negotiation had taken place between his Majesty's Government and the East India Company for the purpose of putting an end to the privileges of that body for the benefit of the public at large, an express agreement had been entered into by the Company with the Government on behalf of those
 703 704 705 onus probandi, 706 l. 707
 Sir J. C. Hobhouse , in spite of the appeal made by the hon. Member for Worcester to his sense of justice, felt himself imperatively compelled—to oppose the second reading of this Bill, and he could not help thinking that he should be able to convince those hon. Members who had listened to the appeal of the hon. Member for Worcester, that it would be extremely unjust to the East-India Company to pass this measure. In the onset be must state that he had been no party to the arrangements from which those complaints now arose; those arrangements had been perfected long before he came to the office of President of the Board of Control. When, however, it was determined that the maritime officers of the East-India Company should receive compensation, it was quite clear that such compensation must be granted and award- ed in one of two methods—either that all cases should be considered separately, with reference to their individual merits, or that if not considered separately some definite rule to apply to them should be laid down. The rig-lit hon. Baronet was here interrupted by
 Viscount Palmerston  was quite aware of his contradiction. He had stated his intention of sending a Consular agent to Cracow, but he had been subsequently induced to alter that intention. When the noble Lord should bring the question before the House, he was sure he should be able to state reasons sufficient to show that he had exercised a sound discretion in having changed his original intention.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the noble Lord had stated with perfect correctness the answer which had been given upon the occasion referred to. He stated at once that it was his intention to send a consular agent to Cracow, and such at the time had undoubtedly been his intention, but having since found that there would be considerable difficulty attending it, greater indeed, than he had then anticipated, he had altered his intention and had not sent a Consular Agent to Cracow, and it was not, at present, his intention to do so.
 Mr. Maxwell , on moving for a return of the debts on the Scotch Turnpike Trusts, for which the trustees are personally liable, observed, that many of the roads in Scotland were of very recent formation, and made at great expense by reason of the hills, morasses, and ravines, which intersected that country. The tolls upon them were consequently very high, and the only means by which The pressure of these tolls was alleviated were to be found in the low rate of interest which was paid to the creditors upon them, owing to the collateral security of trustees, some of the most public spirited of whom were personally bound for the debts. The railway projected through the counties for which his notice for returns was given, had caused great apprehension that the creditors might call up the monies they had lent; or at all events demand five per cent. instead of three and a half, for interest upon their bonds. The trustees would be obliged in such cases to cease from paying off' debt, and might be compelled to diminish the expense necessary for keeping the roads in the highest possible perfection, and to exact the highest possible rate of toll. The returns would show debt annually diminishing; money bonds chargeable with the lowest rate of interest; conveyances of the greatest weight carried through hilly districts with a very small horse power, by the smooth surface and level line of road formed by this system of personal liability, so creditable to the public-spirited persons who had come forward to establish these eligible lines of road for the public benefit. These trustees could not borrow at a higher rate of interest than five per cent., and could reap no profit whatever by such tolls on the traveller; whereas railway companies might gain twenty or thirty per cent. on travelling by their mode of conveyance; and might subject travellers on all public highways through which they passed to higher tolls or worse roads, and whose most valuable traffic, viz., passengers, they would carry away, to a decadence which would never be compensated to any but thoroughgoing travellers on one solitary line of communication. The hardship upon trustees whose lands were taken, and assignees whose securities were de-
 709
 Lord John Russell : Sir, in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish the punishment of death in cases of forgery, which it is my intention to follow up by moving for leave to bring in several other Bills respecting the criminal law of this country, I think it due to the House and to the country to state the motives which induce the Government to bring forward this subject at this time. In the present state of public business, when there are so many measures already before the House, each of which requires much consideration, I should have been most willing, if I could have done so consistently with my public duty, to postpone the measures for improving the criminal law until a more convenient season. The course I am now taking is the result of the appointment of a commission on the criminal law, some years ago. It was the intention, in the appointment of that commission, that they should consider, first the propriety of revising the whole of the unwritten criminal law on the one side, and of revising the whole of the written criminal law on the other; and, finally, they were to consider the expediency of consolidating the whole. The Commissioners went through many laborious investigations of the subject, more especially of the unwritten law, regarding thefts. One of those investigations was exceedingly valuable, as showing the various decisions of the common law with respect to thefts. It soon appeared, however, that, to make a digest of the whole of the unwritten law, and also to make a digest of the whole of the written law, could hardly be done without, at the same time, endeavouring to bring them into a more regular and methodical shape. That question led to others, most difficult and intricate. Seeing the time which must necessarily elapse—seeing the great importance and the great intricacies of the questions thus raised, and which had changed the whole body of the criminal law, as it originally prevailed, and as it
 710 711 712 713 714 715 "From returns which he had seen, and the accuracy of which there could be no reason to doubt, it appears that the transactions of twenty bankers in bills and checks, in three days of the last month, amounted to no less a sum than 9,000,000 l l l * "A Comparison of the Forgeries committed still Capital with those that are no longer so. "The Act abolishing the punishment of * 716 death in certain cases of forgery was passed in August, 1832. The only exception made in the Act was relating to the forgery of wills, and powers of attorney for the transfer of stock, or receipt of dividends. 
 
 "1833. The capital cases not separately distinguished 
 1834. Commitments for forgery, not capital  58 
 —— Capital (forging a will) 1 
 1835. Commitments for forgery, not capital 63 
 —— Capital (forging a will) 1 
 1836. Commitments for forgery, not capital 54 
 —— Capital (forging a power of attorney for the transfer of stock)  1 "Particulars respecting the Increase or Decrease of Forgery, drawn from the letters of the Solicitor to the Society for Prosecuting Forgery. "The Report states the number of forgeries committed on the twenty-four firms, which are members of the London Bankers' Association, from the commencement of 1832 to March 1835. "From January to August, 1832, when the capital punishment was abolished, seven forged cheques were issued. "From August, 1832, to August, 1833, forty-eight forged cheques and bills of exchange were issued; eighteen of which were traced to be the work of one forger. "From August, 1833, to March 1835, twenty-five forged cheques and bills of exchange were issued. "In the first period the number of forgeries averaged less than one per month; in the second four per month, or, exclusive of the eighteen forgeries committed by one person, 2½ per month. But in the last period they have averaged 1¾ only." 717
 Mr. Hume  felt highly gratified at the statement just made by the noble Lord, and was satisfied that the whole country would participate in that feeling.
 Mr. Ewart  cordially approved of the measures as far as they went, but regretted that the principle of mitigation was not carried much further, as he thought it might have been. The hon. Member was proceeding to detail his views upon the subject, when it was moved that the House be counted; but, at the solicitation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and Lord John Russell, the motion was withdrawn, and the hon. Gentleman was allowed to conclude his observations.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to bring forward his motion for a reduction of the tobacco duties; but it was immediately moved that the House be counted.
 Mr. Praed  said, the simple question was, whether an Act of Parliament, passed four years ago, granting compensation to these officers, was to be carried into effect? Was a certain rule of service, not referred to in that Act, to supersede it? As to whether certain statements were or were not omitted in the certificate to which the right hon. Baronet had referred—this, in his opinion, had nothing at all to do with the case. It was evident that the interests of these officers had been affected by the alteration in the East-India Company's trade; and that the Legislature intended they should be compensated. The right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control, appeared to expect him to support the view of the case which the right hon. Baronet had taken, but he was at a loss to know on what ground that expectation was based. When he was attached to the Board of Control, and these same claims were brought before him, he treated them in a very different light from that in which they were viewed by the right hon. Baronet opposite, and he would tell the hon. Member for Teignmouth, that his opinion on the real merits of the question was not
 754
 Mr. Vernon Smith  said, that the opinion of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was of some consequence. The hon. Gentleman had forgotten the case which, when Secretary to the Board of Control, he decided. His opinion on this subject was formed from the hon. Gentleman's opinion. He had a letter, written by the hon. Gentleman, when he held the office of Secretary to the Board of Control, by which it would appear, that the rule the hon. Gentleman acted upon was not one laid down by Mr. Grant, but by Mr. Praed. The letter stated, "that after serious attention had been given to the claims of these officers, the Board had decided they were inadmissible." He could not consider these gentlemen's interests were in any way affected by the alteration in the East-India-Company's trade; for though, as they stated, they were eligible to command the chartered ships of the Company, yet there was not a single instance in which a captain, having performed five voyages, was afterwards called upon to command a chartered vessel. It had been generally considered, that in five voyages the commanders had
 755 l. 756
 Mr. Alderman  Thompson had no personal connexion with any of these petitioners, and was not influenced by any personal considerations whatsoever. He was at a loss, however, to comprehend the force of the argument upon which the right hon. the President of the Board of Control resisted the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Tynemouth. The right hon. Baronet contended, that those gentlemen having served five voyages in, the command of the East-India Com-
 761
 Mr. Cressett Pelham  would remunerate these parties upon principle,—and would give them every thing which the means that were at his disposal would allow, with justice to other parties. He had no doubt but those individuals were most meritorious officers, who had established a legitimate claim upon the Company, or rather, upon the bounty of the House. But he must own, that no rule had been laid down by the Company or the Government, which would enable the House to give it. They did not come within the purview of that Act of Parliament to which he, unfortunately, was no party. They were called upon to express their judgment as a public body, on the expediency of compensating these officers out of funds which were not within their own disposal. If he were to hold out his hands, as a Member of Parliament, to give the public money away, he did not know how he should resist the endless applications of other gentlemen, who, on grounds of similar services, would prefer similar applications. Such a precedent might lead to most serious misapplications of the public money. It was to be remembered, moreover, that if these petitioners had applied to remain in the Company's service at the expiration of their voyages, they might have had this compensation without question; and he should have been disposed to give it the more readily, remembering that in former times they had had a very difficult, though a very profitable, employment.
 Lord Granville Somerset  hoped, that the concluding observations of the hon. Member for Middlesex would not have much effect on the House. The hon. Member said, that to open the case of these individuals, would risk the opening the cases of all the other officers under similar circumstances. If that were the case, be should say with the hon. Member for
 758 759
 Mr. Hawes  would have been better pleased with the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer if the right hon. Gentleman had discovered a disposition to place greater reliance on the statements
 749
 Mr. G. Palmer  had been much struck with the difference between the different views of hon. Gentlemen who had spoken. One hon. Gentleman grounded his objection to granting a Select Committee on the objection formerly taken by the right hon. Baronet, the President of the Board of Control, to entertaining such appeals from the decision of that Board. Was it not possible that the right hon. Gentleman might have been deceived by a statement, that officers in the East-India Company's service must have supposed that after making five voyages they would have no further occasion to concern themselves about pensions or compensation? Within the last few years there had been very few instances of gentlemen who had left the Company's service, after performing five voyages. Their rank in the service, thus acquired, was very valuable, no doubt; but it was a mistake to suppose, that in other respects they were thereby placed in such a condition, that a pension was not of very great importance to them. It would be very hard on any individual or class of men to whom a pension had been assigned by the Court of Directors, and confirmed by the Court of Proprietors, to have it afterwards taken away by the Board of Control. He was not of opinion, as it had been very unfairly insinuated, that the Court of Proprietors would be disposed to vote this money recklessly away, merely because they had not to pay it themselves. Such an imputation it was hardly justifiable to throw out upon a great body like the East-India Company. If those gentlemen had a claim founded on justice, what did it signify whether the East-India Company on the one hand, or the parties referred to in the former case on the other, had or had not granted or received an improper amount of compensation? He was sure that the hon. Member for Middlesex would allow, that an officer who had performed five voyages prior to his commanding a freight vessel, derived no advantage as an
 760
 Mr. Robinson ; The question was, whe-
 753
 Mr. George F. Young  presented a petition from Captains Newall, Barrow, and Glass-pole, of the East-India Company's late maritime service, complaining that the compensation to which they were entitled was withheld by the Board of Control. The brief and simple facts of the case would not render it necessary for him to detain the House at any length; and he was sure that the House, and he hoped the right hon. Baronet opposite, the President of the Board of Control, would agree with him, that this was a case which demanded inquiry. In the year 1833, the public were allowed, by an Act of the Legislature, to participate in the trade with China, which had formerly been exclusively confined to the East- India Company. The Act, also, of 1833, prohibited the East-India Company from trading for a term of forty years. To meet the case of those parties who would be likely to suffer by this arrangement, a clause was introduced into the Bill to provide compensation for them. Some difficulty was subsequently found in awarding compensation to the maritime officers,
 750 l. 751
 Mr. G. F. Young  was convinced that he should best consult the interests of the individuals whose cause he advocated by detaining the House only a very few minutes in reply. One or two circumstances, however, had been alluded to in the course of the debate, which, if he did not explain them, might prejudice their interests. In the first place, he thought the right hon. Baronet laid rather too much stress on the power which these Gentlemen had, he says, of so conforming themselves to the arrangements which were established in regard to the grant o compensations, as to have qualified themselves to make out their present claims beyond doubt or dispute. He knew not whether there was the disposition or not to communicate the necessary information to the parties concerned, at an earlier period after the arrangement upon that head was settled; but he did know that it was not till after the House of Commons had given its sanction to that arrangement, that the parties whose petition he wished to have referred to a Committee, had the remotest chance of knowing what the particulars connected with it were. The right hon. Baronet was aware that, by the custom of the East-India Company, it was usual to make such terms with their officers, that those looked forward, from their first entry into the Company's service, to the period of their becoming captains, with the prospect of obtaining pensions in virtue of their service, and the rank obtained—and that it had become the
 762 l. 763
 Mr. Bagshaw  had paid some attention to this subject, and fully agreed with the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Hobhouse). It was a fallacy to talk of the proprietors paying the money required in compensations. Every sixpence came out of the pockets, not of the proprietors, but of the people of India. Let the House consider what was due to them: they had no representatives in that House; and the Board of Control was bound to protect them.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the arguments brought forward by the hon. Member in favour of the reduction of the duty. The tax upon soap formed a great impediment to the extension of the manufacture; and though the materials from which soap was made were cheaper in this country than in the United States, Canada, and many parts of the Continent, the increase in our exports of this article had borne no proportion to the increase in the trade of countries possessing far inferior facilities. We were precluded from carrying on a valuable trade to all parts of the world by a set of duties which prevented the application of science and industry to the processes of the manufacture. It was well known, that under the present system, the manufacturers sustained the most ruinous losses, and that failures occurred in consequence every clay. No article of domestic consumption, except food, was more important than soap; and it formed a serious item in the expenditure of a poor family. He thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whatever might be the available surplus, should take off this duty, as being one which would give relief, not only to the fair trader, but to the whole of the community. If there should be a deficiency in the revenue from its repeal, there were fifty other ways of raising money with much less injustice to the public, and much less injury to property.
 Mr. Hume  said, if his vote would re-open the question he would not oppose the prayer of the petitioners. It was evident, that Lord Glenelg, and those who were associated with him in his official department, had very ill discharged their duty to the public. After this case had been argued, instead of going to a division upon it that night, they ought to have time allowed to review the whole question. In the speech delivered by an hon. Gentleman formerly connected with the Board of Control, there was a great mistake in the assumption, that these gentlemen did not come within the meaning and scope of the Act of Parliament. If the rule of compensation were a bad one—as, perhaps, it was—it was a very hard case on these three individuals, alter it had been adopted and acted upon in the cases of others, that they should not have the benefit of it. They had been efficient and able officers, and, so far as merits went, his mind was made up in their favour. These individuals, after performing five voyages, must have had as good opportunities of making their fortunes as any men could meet with. If the question had been put to them, before entering into the service, in this manner, "will you, after performing these voyages, enjoy your pension, or enter into the freight service?" they doubtless would have said, "we will enjoy our pension." For they would, perhaps, have considered it derogatory to the po-
 757
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion, on the ground, that if successful, it would have the effect of putting an end to smuggling. The evidence of this fact from every quarter of the country was so strong, that he was quite surprised to find so high a tax kept on. He was quite sure, that if the proposed reduction were made, it would, instead of diminishing, increase the revenue.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that his hon. Friends who had last spoken, in the present state of the House, could hardly be serious in proposing that the House should come to a resolution upon a point of such extraordinary importance after so slight a discussion. Some observations, however, had been made by both his hon. Friends, from which he must express his dissent. The present amount of duty he admitted was not defensible, but he had some remarks to offer to their consideration before the House came to any conclusion on the subject. He would state a few of the considerations which had operated with the Government, and which ought to have had some weight with the House, in abstaining from proposing any reduction on that article. His noble Friend, Lord Spencer, in 1831, when he brought forward his budget, proposed to reduce the duty on this very article of tobacco; and how was that motion met by the House? His hon. Friend, who brought forward the present motion, was not in that Parliament; but if there was one part of that budget which was objected to more than another, it was that very proposed reduction' of the duty on tobacco, and particularly on the ground that the reduction would not prevent smuggling, and would promote the consumption of the article itself. The chief point in his hon. Friend's speech which called for an immediate examination was the alleged extent of the contraband trade. He thought that a fairer subject for taxation than the article itself could not be pointed out. It came unquestionably within the definition of a
 766 767 l. d. 768 l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not inclined altogether to discountenance such discussions as the present. It was quite right that hon. Members who had turned their attention to particular subjects connected with the taxation of the country should lay their views and plans before the House, in order that when the general financial statement was proposed, the different claims to relief might be fully, fairly, and deliberately considered. He hoped, however, that the hon. Member, having made his statement, would follow the example of his hon. Friend, the Member for Worcester, when he brought forward his motion on the subject of marine insurances, and not call for an immediate decision on the case which he had made out. Indeed, if he were to call for an immediate decision, on the ground, for instance, of the present state of income and expenditure as he had stated it, the House would necessarily be led astray, as they must proceed not only on wholly inadequate grounds, but on grounds which were delusive and fallacious. Undoubtedly the revenue of the quarter showed a given amount of surplus, but that was anything but a fair criterion to go by as to the state of the whole financial year. The tea duties had been paid by anticipation last year, and there would therefore be a deduction in that respect. Nor did the receipts of the malt-tax last year afford any ratio of the receipt for the present. That item would be considerably less. much less, than the corresponding one last year. He thought this would be enough to induce the hon. Gentleman and the House, without prejudice, to postpone the decision of this question, and, as they would in their own private affairs, not decide what they would do with their revenue till they knew exactly what income they had to deal with, and what expenditure they had to provide for. He was ready to
 748
 Mr. Ewart  having presented a petition for a reduction of the duty on tobacco, then brought forward the motion of which he had given notice on that subject. He did not deny that, abstractedly speaking, tobacco might be a fair object of taxation; but, practically, it had turned out to be otherwise, for it had given rise to smuggling, and the extensive demoralisation which always accompanied smuggling. The duty, compared to the price, was actually 1,200 per cent.; and the consequence was, that no law could prevent smuggling. To prove that smuggling took place to a great extent, it was only necessary to state that the duty was 3 s. s. d., s. d., s. l. l. l, 765 s. s.
 Mr. Ewart  rose to renew the motion which he made in vain last Session—that landed property should be made subject to the same laws as personal property, and that in cases where the deceased left no will (and where there was no settlement to the contrary) landed property should, like personal property, be equally distributed among the children or the next relations of the deceased. He believed this to be a subject which, if it did not now interest, would some day certainly interest, the nation. As the merits of feudal prejudice and error were dispelled it would be clearly seen how this proposal was fraught with justice, good policy, and truth. Last year when he made this motion he received no answer, or, if his opponents gave him an answer, they were guiltless of giving him any reason. The Attorney and Solicitor-General ought really to blush for the sophistry with which they met the proposition; and, if he thought the Attorney and Solicitor-General could blush, he should have respectfully asked them to do so on that occasion. But he would come to the point at once with those learned and hon. Gentlemen—he would plunge  in medias res, 735 l. l. 736 l. l. l., l., 737 738 739
 Mr. Gillon  rose to bring forward the motion, of which he had given notice, for the abolition of the duty on soap. He begged it to be understood that he was induced to take up the subject from no feeling of hostility to his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer or to the Government, but simply from the conviction that the duty on soap was one of the most oppressive and impolitic that could be imposed. In bringing the subject forward, he calculated confidently upon the support of all the Radical Members, because the measure, if carried, would tend greatly to benefit the poor; and he calculated not less confidently upon the support of the Conservatives, because he remembered that last year they (the Conservatives) brought forward a similar proposition, in opposition to the reduction of the duty upon newspaper stamps. It was his duty in the first place to show that the state of the revenue was such as to admit of the reduction he proposed, and which he admitted was considerable. It appeared, then, that the surplus revenue, on the 6th of January last, amounted to 2,570,957 l., l. 742 l. l. 
 
 lbs.  
 Quantities of soap charged with duty in 1832, before reduction of duty 143,000,000 
 Ditto, in 1834 152,000,000 
 11,000,000 
 Rates of increase per cent, nearly 8,  
 In 1835 the quantity charged with duty was 160,000,000 
 Being an increase of 4 per cent. on 1834.  l. s., l. s., l. l. 743 l. l. s. l. 
 
 1830 to 14,657,666 lbs.  During these three years there was a bounty on exportation equal to the customs duties.  
 1831 to 15,506,561 lbs.  
 1832 to 22,078,000 lbs.  
 1833 to 25,650,868 lbs. Year of the reduction of the duty and the abolition of the bounty. 
 1834 to 23,718,273 lbs.  
 1835 to 22,946,674 lbs. l 744 l. l. l. l. l l. l. l., l. l. l.; l., l. 745 l., l. l. 746 l., l., l., l. s. d., l. 
 
 Glass. Soap. 
 Materials 14 l. per cwt 57 l. 5 s. For Common brown soap at 40 l 
 Labour, including coals 53 7 5 
 Duty 33 35 0 
 £100 £100 0 l. l. 747
 Mr. Gillon  regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not given an explicit promise to abolish the duty. As he saw no chance of carrying his motion, he would not press it to a division.
 The Attorney-General  said, he felt himself bound to oppose the motion, and could not help expressing a wish that the hon. proposer would turn his time and attention to practical reforms of the law, which would be much more acceptable to the House and beneficial to the public than theoretical propositions. If the arguments of the hon. Member for Liverpool went for anything, they went to support the practice of an equal distribution of property, which prevailed in France. [Mr.  Ewart, 740
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that the hon. Gentleman did him no more than justice in supposing that if he had seen any reason to alter the course he had adopted, he should have done so—but, in opposing the hon. Gentleman's motion for a Committee, he was doing no more than right. He would take the liberty to state his objections to the motion; but he must be excused if he were not so brief as he could wish to be. It was due to the claimants that he should repeat the arguments which had influenced him in opposing their claims. He did not deny that those Gentlemen considered themselves aggrieved; but when principles were laid down, it was essential to abide by them. According to those principles, in this case the petitioners were in that class which were not to be compensated; they had, in fact, completed five voyages, and were consequently precluded from receiving compensation. The case of the officer to which the hon. Member for Tynemouth had referred was not applicable to the present case; for having conformed to the regulation, and coming within the required limit, the Board of Control was not in a condition to refuse his claim. But what had these gentlemen done, that their cases should be specially considered? They had, as he had said before, derived all the advantages of five voyages; and if they had not been so fortunate in making money as some other gentlemen similarly situated—it surely would not be contended that they had a right to come to Parliament to interfere in order to make good the deficiency. When he first entered into the office he held he found that a similar case had been
 752
 Viscount Sandon  thought, that his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find that there was such an immense mass of smuggling, that it would be almost incumbent on him to take measures for the reduction of the duty, if not immediately, at some future time. That such was the case was abundantly proved by an accumulation of evidence from Committees, Commissioners, and facts derived both from private and public sources, showing that the honest dealer could not gain a livelihood under the existing system. The question, however, after all, must be left in the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was idle for a Member of that House to attempt to dictate to the right hon. Gentleman on such a subject, and all that private members could do was to bring the case before the public, and trust to their good sense for the ultimate adoption of the measure. Much as he desired to see the duty put an end to, he would recommend his hon. Colleague not to press his Motion.
 Mr. W. Williams  expressed his determination to vote in favour of the Amendment of his hon. friend, and he must say that the noble Lord had not made out any case why so large a military force should exist in this country. The noble Lord had entirely failed to show any solid reason why the present amount of force should be larger than that which existed in 1792. The police of Ireland and of London performed duties which, before the establishment of those forces, were required from the military; and with the police force in the metropolis, it did appear to him that so large an armed force was not only unnecessary, but monstrous and unconstitutional. It appeared that a Reformed Parliament was more extravagant in its expenditure than the unreformed, and particularly with regard to a branch of the public service which was most obnoxious to the principles of public liberty. The maintenance of such a force after twenty-two years of peace was wholly uncalled for, and was a proposition which the Representatives of the people in the House of Commons ought not to sanction.
 Mr. Barlow  Hay thought that no person who considered the hardships endured by the British soldiers during a long and dreary exile in unhealthy climates could wish to see them aggravated by a diminution of the military force. He wished to direct the noble Lard's attention to the present state of the transport service, which he thought ought to be placed under the immediate care of Government, and on the same footing as the navy. This he considered as a matter of deep importance when they recollected the time the soldiers would now pass on board ship in the passage from colony to colony. He entirely approved of the change proposed by the noble Lord as regarded increasing the comforts of the troops in the colonies. There was one regulation which he should like to see altered, as be thought it unjust to the troops of the line. The household troops held rank superior to the rest of the army, and they were allowed to exchange into the line with that full benefit of the rank. He had no objection to their holding a
 790
 Mr. Richards  observed that the noble Lord had referred to the hardships endured by regiments on foreign service, but he had not said a word as to the services of the troops at home. He considered 20,000 men not too large a force, in order to ensure peace and good order in England, Scotland, and Ireland? The noble Lord had enumerated with just applause the valuable services of the army abroad; but he had forgotten their valuable services in keeping the peace at home. And he would put it to the common sense of the hon. Member for Middlesex, whether for the preservation of the peace in England, Ireland and Scotland, the present military force was more than sufficient. If an increase had been proposed, he certainly should have voted for it in preference to supporting a vote for reducing the number.
 Mr. Roebuck  objected to the motion. The best way for him to point out his objection would be to read those clauses to which he was more especially opposed. In the first place it was provided that no licence should be granted without a certificate from the parson of the parish. Now
 772 l. 773
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  agreed in what had fallen from the hon. Member far Bath, and wished, at the Same time, to remind the House, that the retailers of beer already laboured under many hardships to which the licensed victualler was not subjected.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor , in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Bath, said, the clergyman's interference was to extend merely to the granting of a certificate as to previous character, and he had confined himself to the country parishes, because it was there the evil had been felt. Every county magistrate would say, that the evils were so great that there was an absolute necessity for something being done. He was taunted also for not interfering with gin palaces. He considered them the receptacles for every species of vice; but if he were to interfere with them at all, he would be told by the hon. Member, or some of his Friends, that he was interfering with the amusements of the people. The next charge was, that he was favouring country gentlemen, by obliging all beer-shops to be within a certain distance of the high road. The reason was, as country gentlemen knew, that many of those beer-shops were on the borders of forests, and it was notorious that they were the haunts of poachers, sheep-stealers, and persons guilty of every other species of crime. From the temper of the House, he had no doubt the Bill would be rejected, but it did not damp him: he would continue to turn his
 774
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  thought, that if the clergy had any reason to complain, it was of the hon. Member for Durham, not of the hon. Member for Bath. He (Mr. Duncombe) had heard of a place in Yorkshire, where the parsonage-house had actually been let for a beer-shop. As to the clergyman being allowed to licence of not, it should be remembered that a clergyman might be a member of a temperance society, in which case it was hardly to be expected that he would licence a place where liquor was to be had, which he thought injurious to those who drank it. In his opinion, a more ridiculous and arbitrary measure had never been brought under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Wynn  hoped his hon. Friend, the Member for Durham, would not press his motion to a division. The Bill would, in his opinion, impose a most invidious and irksome duty upon the clergyman of every parish.
 Mr. Wilks , on the contrary, advised the hon. Member for Durham to go to a division, because he was convinced that the opinion of the House would be distinctly expressed; and it was highly important that those persons who had invested their capital in beer-houses, should not be annoyed, Session after Session, by experimental notices and measures. He was convinced that, upon the whole, the establishment of beer-houses had been productive of great good, moral and physical, by diminishing the consumption of ardent spirits,
 Mr. Trevor  would defer to the opinion of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Montgomery, and would not press the Bill to a second reading. At the same time he must protest against the doctrines of the hon. Member for Boston.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he had a notice upon the book, which he should have been glad to have brought forward many weeks ago, and of which he should have been happy to have offered some explanation when the notice was given, if he had not been prevented by forms of the House, which he hoped were a portion of the wisdom of our ancestors, and not our own. The consequence of his being prevented from giving any such explanation was, that he had received a number of letters, from which it appeared that there was a persuasion that he intended to enter into an examination of the details of the office of the commander-in-chief. Now, he begged to say, that he had no more intention of doing that, than he had of inquiring into the details of the office of the Archbishop of Canterbury, if there was one. His object was simply to bring before the notice of the House, that the government of the army was withdrawn from the practice and application of that constitutional law, which, according to the principle settled in times of struggle and danger, gave us a remedy for, and prevention of the misapplication of the power of the Crown, by placing the administration of all the important departments of the state, in the hands of the ministers whose real responsibility consisted in the necessity for all going out of office together, whenever they ceased to be able to maintain a majority in that House. Though not a lawyer, his object could not be mistaken by any fair inquirer. If that mace or its predecessor could tell stories, it would speak of times when there was little doubt of what our forefathers meant by the customs and constitution of the realm, as distinct from Acts of Parliament. But, not to travel out of his immediate line, when the Mutiny Act said, that the raising and keeping up an army in the realm without consent of Parliament, was against law, was there a drum-boy that believed that meant, against an Act of Parliament? It was written and stamped upon the minds of all men that there was a law in this country to which even statutes made in that and the other House of Parliament were subservient. To that law, therefore, he appealed, and he would ask whether the government of the army had been kept in the state in which it had been placed by their forefathers? What on this point said
 776 777 778 grand coup de lance
 General Sharps  contended that the present number of troops was no more than was sufficient for the protection, not of the peace, for that he knew was hardly ever in danger, owing to the efficiency of the civil power, but of property in cases of sudden commotion.
 Captain Chetwynd  had been fifteen years in the Blues, and risen to the rank of captain, with the cheering prospect of being captain these ten years to come. Was not this an answer to the hon. Member for Middlesex's assertion, that
 791
 Captain Chetwynd  said, that all military men were perfectly satisfied with the conduct of the Commander-in-chief. The slowness of promotion in the army might, in his opinion, be remedied by permitting certain classes of officers to sell out after a certain period of service, allowing their names to remain on a reserved list for a specified time, with permission to re-purchase, if they should desire to do so.
 Captain Boldero , with reference to the vote before the House, wished to remark, that he had obtained returns of the number of officers who had been killed and wounded, both from the Horse-Guards and the Ordnance Department; but when
 795
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed it. He disapproved of it  in toto,
 Mr. Ruthven  believed, that if the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill were agreed to by the Legislature, a great portion of the military force now required in Ireland, might be altogether dispensed with.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he for one should make no objection to the increase of expense which had been incurred in consequence of the new warrant, as he believed the system of rewards which it established, would be one great step in advance towards the abolition of corporal punishment in the army, of which, except in time of war, he entirely disapproved.
 Mr. Goring  observed, that there was no man whose conduct had been so closely watched as Lord Hill's with regard to the appointments which he had made, and if there had been any ground for the charges which had been brought against him, such representations would have been made to the House, that it would have been impossible for him to continue in his office. Such appointments as had come to his (Mr. Goring's) knowledge, had been made on the most equitable principles.
 Mr. Aglionby , in moving the second reading of the Recovery of Tenements Bill, said, that for the sake of tenants themselves it was absolutely necessary there should be a summary mode of recovering possession of tenements. He regretted the Attorney General had not thought proper to take upon himself the management of a Bill of this nature, because he was convinced the law as it now stood required some alteration. The present Bill did not alter the law of landlord and tenant, because it only applied to cases where a system of swindling had been carried on by persons who obtained possession of tenements under a false character. The principle of his Bill was that which had been recommended by the Commissioners, who had investigated narrowly the common law which made the distinction; and he would not occupy the House longer than in stating, that he did not believe that by this Bill the situation of the tenants would be rendered worse than at present, but rather better by its provisions, as it would enable their landlords to afford them more indulgence, as they would not run the same risk of being defrauded by violence or bad faith. There would be quite a sufficient time given before they went into Committee to offer any suggestions for the improvement of its provisions, and he would be glad to adopt any which he considered would be beneficial.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, it unfair to move the second reading then, as many Members desirous of opposing it had gone away when they found that the hon. Alderman, at another part of the evening, was not in his place.
 Mr. Leader  inquired how it came to pass, that the Judge-Advocate under the last Administration, the right hon. Member for Leeds, who was admitted he believed to be a very good Judge-Advocate, was removed when the present Ministry came into office? The Commander-in-chief ought to concur in opinion with the Executive Government. Lord Hill might not bestow his patronage in an improper manner, but it was believed in the country that he did, and the effect of that belief in the country generally, and in the army itself, was very injurious.
 The Lord Advocate , in moving the second reading of the Bankrupts' Estates Scotland Bill, said, that as the enactments of it were the same in all respects as the Bill which passed through the House last Session, it was unnecessary for him to take up time by entering into any general view of the nature of the Bill, the object of which was to carry into effect improvements in the sequestration law, which had been contemplated and under consideration for a period of about twenty years. He was desirous, however, to point out the circumstances which had hitherto prevented the country receiving the benefits of the improvements called for, although many Bills had been brought forward by his predecessors in office and by himself. These arose chiefly from the great difference of opinion in different parts of the country, with regard to the nature of the provisions which ought to be adopted. It was contended by many persons that the sequestration of bankrupt estates should be carried on in the Supreme Court, as hitherto. On the other hand, it was not less strenuously urged, that sequestrations might be commenced and finished in each of the Sheriff Courts throughout Scotland. There were great objections to both those courses of proceeding. If sequestrations might be commenced in each of the Sheriff Courts, from the very limited jurisdictions, and many individuals and companies carrying on business in different counties, there might be jarrings and conflicting proceedings in each sheriffdom, and there would also be a want of general superintendence and check to prevent abuse taking place in particular districts. On the other hand, the expense of the procedure was much greater by the details of sequestration being confined to
 770
 The Lord Advocate  observed, that the Bankruptcy Scotland Bill was closely connected with the other. The object of it
 771
 Mr. Hume  was as sensible as the hon. Member for Knaresborough of the necessity of preserving the peace at home. The best way to keep the peace would, in his view of the question, be to reduce the enormous standing army kept up in time of peace, despite of the continually expressed dissatisfaction of the public at every meeting throughout the country. He should have preferred obtaining the returns he had asked from the noble Lord. If he would not grant them he must use such as he could procure hereafter. From all that had transpired he should feel himself wanting in his duty to the public, were he not to press the question of a reduction to a division.
 Mr. Hume  wished he had had the assistance of the hon. and gallant Officer when he moved, a short time ago, for returns of the services of a great number of officers belonging both to the army and navy, as his evidence would have been very valuable to him. His motion was met by an assurance from the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, that it would take at least three years to make up the returns which he had asked for. It appeared, however, that there would not have been so much time spent after all. With regard to what the hon. and gallant Officer said about the Admiralty, he thought he must be mistaken, because in Sir John Barrow's evidence it was stated that there were two books kept, which formed one of the most complete registers that was to be found in any department, and that it was only necessary for the admiral or any other officer requiring information to ring a bell, and in five minutes he would obtain all he wanted.
 Mr. Hume  thought, this the most objectionable vote of the whole, as the keeping up of the yeomanry corps was most injurious to the peace of the country. He proposed, therefore, to negative this vote altogether.
 Mr. Hume  would shortly state the objections which he felt to the keeping up of the large military establishment which at present existed in the country. Since the war, the national resources bad been lavished on an immense military force, without any regard to the privations which heavy taxation inflicted on the community, He said "privations," for seventy per cent. of the whole amount of taxation levied in this country, fell upon the poorer, the working classes.—In consequence of enormous expenses which were incurred by our large military force, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as in the instance of soap last night, the duty on which pressed on every individual, but most heavily upon the working classes, was unable to give them any relief from taxation. In 1792, the number of men employed in the army was 45,242; in the navy, 16,000; in the ordnance, 4,000; making a total of 65,242. Yet in those times France was hostile to us, and the Spanish fleet, then considerable, opposed us. Now, when there was not a single naval force in Europe, except that of France, which could bear comparison with ours, in a state of profound peace we bad 33,700 marines and seamen, 81,319 soldiers, and 8,255 men in the ordnance and engineer department—in all, no less than 123,274 men; and this, let it be recollected, was our efficient establishment. In addition to this, we had 48,113 yeomanry, besides militia available, as well as the armed police of Ireland, amounting to 7,367, and the new police, numbering 3,300. The entire force amounted to 182,000, exclusive of the troops in India, which amounted to 19,000 more. What was the reason for keeping up such a force as that?
 781 782 783 l., s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 784 l. s. d. l. s. d.,
 Mr. Hume  remarked that every great town had now a well-organized police, which rendered the military less necessary than hitherto.
 Mr. Hume  asked whether it was the intention of Government to act upon the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the civil service of the army?
 Mr. Hume  meant no personal reflection on Lord Hill, but he would not give him his confidence, for the same reason that he would not give it to Sir Robert Peel or the hon. Gentlemen opposite, though as hon. men as any in the House. The charge against the Government was, that they allowed Lord Hill to employ the patronage of his office against the views and interests of the Liberal party. Nothing was now more necessary to get promotion in the army than to have Tory interest. Would the Tories, if they came into power, allow a Whig to remain in such an office? The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Fergusson) was now a Colleague of Lord Hill's, and therefore it was that he stood up to defend him.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that Ministers ought to bring in a Bill even in the present Session, if it were only for the purpose of showing that they were sincere.
 Mr. Hume  said, the subject had been two or three years under consideration. The charge in this item for the Commander-in-chief's office was enormous. There could be no hope of a better administration of this department unless the present Commander-in-chief was turned out of office, and some person placed in his situation who would act upon the principles of the present Liberal Government. If Ministers found they could not get on with Lord Hill, let them get another in his place. He meant no personal imputation on the gallant officer, but was it not enough to make the country doubt the sincerity of Ministers, when they retained in so important an office a man who had not the confidence of that House, or of the country? The Government by such shilly-shally conduct were not doing justice to themselves or to the country. The charge for the Commander-in-chief's office was out of all reason, particularly when it was considered that the duties of it were almost exclusively confined to the army at home.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  did not know of a single instance in which political opinions had influenced the conduct of Lord Hill with regard to the patronage of the army.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  complained, that the Commander-in-chief and the noble Lord, the Military Secretary, were the constant objects of attack from the hon. Member. He did not know upon what ground the hon. Member was always bringing such charges against the Commander-in-chief and the Military Secretary. It was impossible that any men could receive more general testimony to their conduct.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  did not doubt
 794
 Mr. Ewart  contended, that subordinates ought always to co-operate with the Government under which they acted.
 Sir Charles Dalbiac  said, that a great deal of heavy duty was thrown upon the Horse Guards by the troops on foreign stations.
 Viscount Howick : There was a list at the Horse-Guards, and a very full and correct list, of the services of officers who had been killed and wounded, but that would not enable him to get a statement made out of the services of officers who had neither been killed nor wounded.
 Viscount Howick  would admit, that the Commander-in-chief, if he had political functions to perform, should be a person entertaining the same political opinions as the Members of the Government; but he maintained that the duties which devolved on Lord Hill were only of an administrative and executive nature. The hon. Member for Middlesex differed from him in opinion on this point, and it was his duty, therefore, not to seize an opportunity for making an incidental attack on Lord Hill, but to move an address to the Crown for the removal of that nobleman from the office he at present held.
 Viscount Howick  would admit that the charge was too great if the staff of the Commander-in-chief had nothing to do with the army abroad; but in this respect the hon. Member was completely misinformed. In fact there was as much laborious duty connected with the army abroad as with that at home. There were no men whose time was more fully occupied than that of the staff of the Commander-in-chief, Under the head of
 793
 Viscount Howick  said, that the Commissioners had drawn up the plan of reform which they were prepared to recommend; but before a Bill could be got ready there were many details and difficulties to be considered. It was not intended that the Report should be left a dead letter. He would allow himself deserving of the hon. Member's censure if, before the lapse of another Session, some measure, founded on the Report, should not be proposed, or some satisfactory reason given for not doing so. It was desirable that the country should first have an opportunity of seeing the Report. Ministers were anxious to get on with the public business, but the portion of time allowed them for this purpose was very inconsiderable.
 Viscount Howick  said, the recommendations contained in the Report could be carried into effect only by an Act of Parliament. The Session was now too far advanced to introduce any measure upon the subject.
 Viscount Howick  observed, that the hon. Member for Middlesex had called upon him to show some grounds for maintaining the amount of the force which it was proposed to keep up, and had asked, "Why not return to the amount of force kept up in 1792; or why not, at all events, comedown to the force maintained by a Tory Government in the years 1822 and 1823?" With respect to the comparison between the year 1792 and the present time, he wished to call the hon. Member's attention to this fact, that since the year 1792 the colonial possessions of this country had been very greatly extended. The amount of force required for garrisoning the colonies which this country held previous to the year 1792 did not at this moment materially differ from the amount of force required for garrisoning those colonies at that period. There certainly had been a large increase in the garrisons in New South Wales; but when the increase of the number of convicts, and the extent of territory over which those desperate men were dispersed, were considered, the absolute necessity for maintaining a large military force for the safety of the colonists must be apparent to every one. In fact, very recently only a necessity existed for sending an additional regiment to New South Wales. When he had the honour of being Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, on one occasion a very serious alarm existed in that colony from the difficulty of maintaining the peace in consequence of the disorderly conduct of the convicts. The hon. Gentleman had said, that the object of the Government in maintaining such a large military force was for the purpose of overawing the people both at home and in the colonies. If that really had been the object, he begged to assure the hon. Gentleman that he should not have been the person to frame the estimates, or to bring them forward. He begged to tell the hon. Gentleman that it was for no such purpose that the present vote was proposed. The hon. Gentleman had also been pleased to say that the Government had no voice or control over this matter. This, also, he begged to deny. If he had not possessed the means of ascertaining the reasons for which it
 785 786 787 788 789
 Viscount Howick  said, that, except in one or two points, the present estimates were precisely the same as those of the last two years. In the effective force there was this year an increase to the amount of 27,875 l., l., l. l. 779 d. l. l. l. l., l. 780 l. s. d.
 Mr. Wilks  was exceedingly sorry that his hon. Friend should attempt any legislation on this subject, especially after what had occurred on the preceding evening. He repeated what he then said, that those proceedings were inconvenient to the magistracy, to the public, and to those who had embarked capital in beer-shops. In fact, they could be productive of no good to any one.
 Mr. Wallace  rose to propose the following resolution:—" That it is the opinion of this House, that the general post letter receiving-boxes, at the branch offices throughout this metropolis, should be kept open for letters being put therein at any time convenient for the people, between seven o'clock p. M. and twelve at night, as is the case at the General Post-office in St. Martin's-le-Grand, and every post-office in the kingdom; and especially that the receiving bags for general post letters, in the Houses of Lords and Commons, be also kept open until twelve at night, thus making the time of the franking privilege all over London the same as at St. Martin's-le-Grand, and in all other towns." He observed, that this resolution affected the convenience of two classes of persons—the public at large, and the Members of that House. The plan he proposed would cost the country nothing, while it would very much promote the general convenience. It was probably well known, that all the post-office boxes at the receiving-houses,
 810
 Mr. Wallace  observed, that with reference to Sunday deliveries in the town of Cheltenham, there were two deliveries on Sundays. Again, the Speaker of the House of Commons got his letters on Sunday. But, in Dublin, there existed this strange anomaly, that the letters from "us aliens" were delivered on Sundays, but letters from the interior of Ireland were not. The hon. Member stated that it was his intention to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Richards  deprecated this mode of incidentally raising a discussion upon the merits of an absent illustrious individual without notice, and challenged any person in that House, competent to form a judgment upon a military subject, to deny that the Commander-in-chief was eminently qualified to fill the situation, and had actually discharged its duties with strict impartiality.
 Mr. Richards  said, that he understood, from various letters he had received, that numerous petitions would have been prepared against this obnoxious measure, had not the nature of the first division on the Bill been misunderstood in the country. The provisions of the Bill were of the most vexatious character; and would compel a creditor to expend 200 l l l l l l l 824 l l l l l Gazette, l l l l 825 l
 Sir Frederick Pollock  was anxious to call the attention of the Committee to the bearing of this clause. For his own part, he was not an advocate for anything like arrest for debt, except in extreme cases; and he was decidedly in favour of abolishing imprisonment for debt so far as was practicable. He must, however, admit that his hon. and learned Friend opposite had not carried out the recommendations of the Common Law Commissioners in this particular, and he really could not go along with him in admiring the policy of this clause. According to the report of the Commission, of which he had the honour to be a member, it was recommended that every facility should be given to make the property of the debtor available to his creditors. He must say, that the details of some of the clauses of this Bill did not contain sufficient machinery to carry this object into effect. Any man not arrested for debt, and against whom a judgment had been obtained, finding himself without the means of paying his creditor in full, might, as the law now stood, go to prison and petition the Insolvent Debtors' Court. It was in his power, when pressed by an arrest or by demand for the payment of a judgment debt, to apply to some tribunal, and make a  cessio bonorum 826 toties quoties cessio bonorum 827 s l 828 l 829 l l
 The Attorney-General  was glad to find that the opinions of his hon. and learned Friend had remained unchanged; and to him, as an authority, he would refer the hon. Member for Knaresborough. His hon. and learned Friend agreed that the creditor should be invested with a more direct remedy against the property of the debtor; he did not disapprove of the preceding clauses, which placed within the reach of judgments property and interests which formerly had been beyond them, but he objected to the 12th. Now, it must be obvious, that the new remedies would be in practice useless, unless a power were created of compelling debtors to make disclosures of the property henceforth to be surrendered to their creditors; this was only what was done by the 12th clause: it was necessary to cases the others out. The power of compelling the debtor to produce a schedule was substituted for the power of incarcerating his person; and this substitution was complained of as a hardship. It would but rarely, even as now imprisonment for debt, be put in force in cases, namely, where suspicion of concealment attached to the debtors. His hon. and learned Friend had complained of the imperfection of the proposed  cessio bono-rum cessio bonorum 830 l l l
 Mr. Richards  thought that the Attorney-General should have chosen the sums in the additional clause of which he had given notice, so as to include the interest of the community, and not in such a way as to consult the interests of the powerful deputation from the city only.
 Sir F. Pollock  asked, whether the Attorney-General would consent to a clause or proviso, giving a party against whom judgment and notice had issued, an appeal under the 12th section to the Insolvent Debtors' Court. As the Attorney-General would leave the clause, there would be three codes—the insolvent code, which would apply to cases of injury; the bankrupt code., which would apply to trade; and this special code, applying neither one way nor the other. Were a man relieved by the Insolvent Court, a person could afterwards afford to give him credit, because in that court the equity of subsequent creditors is preserved. Under this code no such credit could be given, for no such equity would exist. It would be better to make but one insolvent code; he however, preferred two. The notice alluded to would not meet the case of a trader, and he thought all creditors and all debtors ought to have, respectively equal benefits. Would the Attorney-General consent that the debtor might apply within fourteen days to the Insolvent Court? The debtor would then have the protection of a fit code.
 The Attorney-General  said, that it was utterly impossible for him to hesitate about disagreeing to the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend, on account
 831
 Mr. Hawes  thought the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Huntingdon a very extraordinary one, considering that the hon. and learned Member was one of the Commissioners who signed the report on this subject, in which great stress was laid on the waste of property which took place in the Insolvents' Court. His intercourse with commercial men led him to a conclusion quite different from that to which the hon. Member for Knaresborough had come respecting this Bill. He considered that it would be a great improvement on the existing system.
 Mr. Alderman Copeland  said, that at the present moment a great many men were kept out of their resources by the elements. He wanted to know what would be the effect of this clause, supposing that those individuals so deprived of their resources by the elements should be compelled within one and twenty days to come forward and disclose their assets to any single creditor? If you give the creditor the power of compelling such disclosure, you should give the debtor protection, by giving him a release from the claims of those creditors who availed themselves of that disclosure. It would be too bad to let a debtor be cited by creditor after creditor, to make this disclosure, and then when that disclosure had been made, to his great expense and loss, to leave him in such a situation as would disable him from ever rearing up his head again. God forbid that such should ever be the law of this country. He looked upon this Bill as an axe laid to the root of the commercial credit of the country. He should certainly divide against this clause, as it gave the creditor an advantage for which the debtor received no equivalent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  reminded the hon. Alderman that he ought to contrast the mischiefs arising from the present law with those which he anticipated as likely to arise from this clause, to which he so strongly objected.
 Mr. Grote  said, that the true answer to the objection of the hon. Alderman opposite (Alderman Copeland) appeared to him to be, that this clause could not come into operation until the creditors should have obtained judgement against the
 832
 Mr. Harvey  was fearful this clause had not been considered with the attention it deserved. The effect of it would be to give an undue preference to the relentless creditor, and to prejudice the interests of the indulgent. It moreover gave encouragement to fraudulent transactions, and denied protection to the unfortunate debtor. He was decidedly an advocate for the abolition of imprisonment for debt; at the same time, the creditor ought to be armed with prompt means wherewith to realize the assets of his debtor.—The mode of effecting this was the question. The present Bill enacts that after judgment obtained, the creditor may call for, and at a future time enforce, a schedule of the assets of the debtor. But in the interval (and three months is the shortest period in which such schedule can be effectively obtained) arrangements may have been matured by which all his property may be disposed of, and the creditor exposed to a vexatious amount of law expenses by way of addition to a debt now made worthless. But in cases where no fraud is practised, and the debtor insolvent, yet not subject to the bankrupt laws, why should one creditor sweep away every thing, leaving the debtor exposed to the unsatisfied demands of his exasperated creditors?—The moment a man is found to be incompetent to meet his engagements, an equal distribution of his effects should be made, and when no fraud is imputable to the debtor, his future liability should cease. To effect these two objects—an early and easy distribution of property and the acquittal of the debtor,—there can be and ought to be no difficulty, but he was sorry to be compelled to say the remedy was not provided by the present Bill. He was satisfied the Attorney-General had given great and unwearied attention to the subject, but he was opposed at every turn, which made it a hopeless toil for him to effect what is really desirable. A Committee of the whole House was not the suitable tribunal for such an inquiry; which ought to be before a Select Committee of professional and commercial men, who would sift the subject in all its bearings and intricacies. Equally unsatisfactory was it to hear hon. Gentlemen express
 833
 Sir Frederick Pollock  objected to it, are giving to a single Commissioner the power of committal, which he deemed to be unnecessary, and as giving to the Commissioners conjointly the power of making rules and orders without any control over them, save that of the Lord Chancellor.
 The Attorney-General  defended the clause. The rules and orders which the clause entitled the Commissioners to make only related to the practice of their court. The Commissioners of Bankruptcy had told him that they could not exercise their functions properly unless they possessed the power of committal, and therefore he had given it to them by the clause.
 Mr. Tooke  objected to the clause, and declared his intention of dividing against it.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  supported the motion, in order that the matter might be discussed in a fuller House. He was unwilling to invest the Commissioners with the power contemplated in the clause.
 Colonel Thompson  said, that he did not mean in the slightest degree to derogate from the military or personal character of Lord Hill. Indeed he had had opportunities of seeing that noble Lord in situations where he showed himself well entitled to the love and confidence that
 820
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that an important motion of this sort ought not to have been brought forward by the hon. Member for Middlesex without due notice. This was only the first step of a certain party to bring the army under the control of Parliament, and he could not conceive any measure fraught with greater mischief to the country than taking the control of the army and navy out of the hands of the Crown, in which they were at present placed by the Constitution.
 Mr. Villiers  was sure there was not an hon. Member in that House who was actuated by any feeling personally hostile to Lord Hill, but, upon political grounds, he thought the motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex ought to be supported,
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  declared, that he had never been able to understand why,
 819
 Mr. Grote  thought it hard that the noble Lord should make it a matter of complaint, that a specific and distinct fact relating to the partiality of the Horse-Guards should now be mentioned, because he understood that the noble Lord had challenged all those who disputed the propriety of continuing Lord Hill in his present situation to produce any case in which partiality had been shown by that noble Lord. But no sooner was a specific case adduced, than the noble Lord complained of it. This was a sort of argument which he (Mr. Grote) did not understand. He thought that no answer had been given to the question put by the hon. Member for Middlesex—namely, "Would Sir R. Peel, if he had remained in office, have retained a Commander-in-chief who was a Whig?" If the Gentlemen opposite were prepared to answer that question in the affirmative, then he would admit that they were now acting with consistency; but if they could not do so, then it was quite clear that they were not able to carry out the principle for which they were now contending.
 Mr. Robinson  complained of the inconsistency of the conduct pursued by the hon. Member for Middlesex, whose constant complaint was, when a Tory government was in power, that they appointed no persons to office but those who entertained similar political opinions with themselves. He would contend that a more mischievous doctrine than that advanced by the hon. Members for Middlesex and Liverpool, he had never heard; for the effect of it was, to convert the whole country into a political arena, and the consequence would be, that it could never experience peace or tranquillity. They were told by the hon. Member for Liverpool, that there ought to be a political army. Now, he would take upon himself confidently to assert, that this was an opinion that was not shared by any considerable number of persons in that House or out of it; and although that hon. Member and others flattered themselves that they spoke the sentiments of a great mass of the people of this country, he would say it was a most miserable delusion. He would say, that the largest portion of the respectable part of the community did not participate in the opinions to which he had referred. He knew nothing of Lord Hill but as a public officer, and he supposed he was retained in the exercise of the situation which he held, on the ground of his peculiar fitness to discharge the duties of his office. Let the House look to what the effect would be of changing any public officer on a change of government. What an expense it would incur to the country. He had seen many such changes, where persons of superior abilities had been replaced by their inferiors in that respect, while the country was saddled with the pension of the one and the salary of the other. The idea of establishing a pure democracy in the country which the bon. Member for Middlesex and his political supporters entertained, was a foolish Utopian notion which could never be realised. He protested against converting all the officers of state, magistrates and public servants, into political partisans. This system had been lately acted upon in Ireland, though the country was in such a disturbed state that it was hardly possible for his Majesty to get persons to undertake the administration of its affairs, and it had been pro-
 816
 Mr. George F. Young  thought, the reply to the argument of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was very Obvious. With the duties of the First Lord of the Admiralty Was combined the superintendence of the civil department of the navy; whereas with the administration of the civil affairs of the army, the Commander-in-chief had nothing whatever to do; therefore it did not belong to his department to introduce those economical improvements in the civil department of the army, which were effected in the naval department by the First Lord of the Admiralty, when the right hon. Baronet was appointed.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that according to the argument of the hon. Member for Tynemouth, if it could be shown to him that the Commander-in-Chief had a controlling power over the civil affairs of the army, the amendment of the hon. Member for Middlesex ought to be adopted. Now, he (Mr. Aglionby) thought it could be easily shown, that the Commander-in-Chief did possess that power; and if so, the hon. Member was himself bound to support the amendment.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, the Post-office Commissioners had recommended that letters arriving in London on Sunday morning, instead of waiting, as at present, till the Monday evening, should be sent out by the mails which left town on Sunday, towards their destination in the country.
 Mr. Labouchere  had always considered it imperative as fur as possible to transmit Parliamentary papers on the same day, although sometimes it was a matter of no small difficulty, and, from their enormous weight, interposed in all cases the most serious delay in the general arrangements of the establishment. When it was impracticable to dispatch them by the regular mails the same day, they were invariably sent off the next evening, or by the first steam packets. With respect to the opening of the general post receiving boxes on Sunday he had communicated some days ago with Colonel Maberly, who at once agreed to adopt the suggestion, and for the future they should be kept open in the same manner as the two penny-post letter-offices, As to the other parts of the
 813
 Mr. Warburton  had but a brief reply to make. He had mentioned the case of a collection of pictures merely in illustration of his argument. There were but two
 809
 Mr. Warburton  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to alter the property qualification of Members to serve in Parliament. He hoped the motion he was about to make would receive the sanction of the House without much discussion. It would be in the recollection of hon. Members, that early in the present Session the hon. Baronet, the Member for Cornwall, submitted a motion for the purpose of abolishing altogether the property qualification of
 803 l l 804 l l l l l l l l Oh, oh l l 805
 Mr. Leader  thought, that if a variety of qualifications were allowed, as proposed by the hon. Member for Bridport, they would, in all probability, be very strictly enforced, and the law would be more stringent, and not so easily evaded; whereas now it was notorious that the present qualification law was evaded every day. There were, perhaps, a quarter, or one-half, of the Members of that House who were possessed of a fictitious qualification only. It would, therefore, be an improvement if the law were altered, so as to compel persons to have a qualification in either land or money, or pictures, or some sort of property or other. But his own opinion was, that the proper qualification, the only real and true qualification a man could possess, was, that he had the confidence of a majority of the electors of any place that returned him. That was the only true and real qualification that ought to be required. He wished the hon. Member for Bridport had been present at a meeting of the Working Men's Association the other day, for he would have seen there men who worked for their living daily, and yet were as well qualified as many Members of that House to sit in it. Entertaining these opinions, he felt it to be his duty to move as an amendment, that the property qualification of Members of Parliament be altogether abolished.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, did not wish to see all the public functionaries consisting of the friends of liberal opinions, but those leading officers of State, only, on whom depended the character of the Government. It was well known, that not only was the Commander-in-chief opposed to the principles of Ministers, but the army had been made a mere appanage to a family hostile to the popular cause. If they were not afraid to speak out on the subject, the reason of Lord Hill's being in office would be stated simply thus—The present Ministers found that they would not be allowed to come into office unless he was continued in power, and they determined to abandon the control of the army, and to effect as many improvements in other branches of the public service as they could. If Government had really entertained opinions as liberal as those which they professed, and had been desirous of doing justice to their supporters, they would have stood out and refused to come into office until Lord Hill was put out. The country expected them manfully to confess that they were liberal only on sufferance, and that they did not put out Lord Hill because they could not. Lord Hill now ruled the army in defiance of Government, and the reason was, because hon. Gentlemen opposite had too much power in that House, and were numerous enough to pay of the efforts of the friends of the liberal cause. A little longer, and, if the state of parties remained the same, the present Ministry would be turned out. Ministers ought not to make false excuses, but should own that they could not deprive Lord Hill of his office, and therefore would not trouble themselves about the matter.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he could not allow this motion to be agreed to without addressing a few observations to the House in reply to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Bridport. He protested against any insinuation of a want of consistency on the part of those who were opposed to property qualification altogether if they did not support the present motion. He was of opinion that every attempt to alter the constitution and established laws of this country ought to be based on some grave and tangible principle. They ought not to interfere with any law without due caution and deliberation. The mere interference with any law was bad in itself; it was an evil, and one that could only be justified by some great and leading principle. It could not be justified by what was ordinarily, but correctly, termed a shifting expediency, which meant nothing more than a changing of the tack and a shifting of the sails to meet every wind that blew. No alteration should be attempted, then, unless we could tell what we were about, and what the precise end was we had in view, being fully aware what it was we were seeking, and using justifiable means to obtain our object. His hon. Friend spoke of the course taken in reference to the Ballot and the Reform Bill.
 806
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was his intention to move an amendment to this resolution, as regarded the reduction of the salaries of the Commander-in-chief and the Military Secretary. He considered it highly detrimental that Lord Hill should hold the office of Commander-in-chief, entertaining, as he
 814 l
 Mr. Hume  regretted the unwillingness evinced at the Post-office to carry into effect such recommendations as the present: unless the House took the matter up, it was in vain to offer any suggestions to that department. No man deprecated more than he did any species of interference with the details of a public office, but he could not see why, for instance, all the general receiving offices should not be opened of a Sunday, or why he and every other person in the same district should be obliged to send a servant with their letters to St. Martin's-le-grand, when the general accommodation might so easily be met by leaving the slips open during the whole of that day. Much less inconvenience would have been suffered had the Bill for regulating the Post-office, which the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, introduced last Session, been carried into effect. There would then have been a proper publicly recognised head to that department, who would take care that all the details were duly attended to; but at present the public business was sometimes altogether kept at a stand still, while the Postmaster-General was hunting or otherwise amusing himself. He did not mean to undervalue the services of Lord Conyngham, but it was quite necessary that the head of the post-office should be a permanently resident officer.
 Mr. Hume  said, that his present course of proceeding was perfectly regular and constitutional.
 Mr. Wason  said, that a Tory Government had shown in the case of Lord Beresford, that they considered a military commander subject to political control. When the Duke of Wellington brought forward the Roman Catholic Relief Bill, Lord Beresford was at the head of the Board of Ordnance at that time, and the noble Lord applied to the head of the Government to know if he might be permitted to refrain from voting on that occasion; the reply of the Duke of Wellington was, that Lord Beresford might vote as he pleased, but that the Master-General of the Ordnance must vote for Catholic Emancipation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman did not oppose the motion for leave to bring in the Bill. He was at a loss to conceive what could be the feelings of those hon. Gentlemen who wished to have no property qualification at all. That was a principle which he must oppose. The question now was whether the present law did not require some improvement, and whether the Bill proposed would effect the improvement which might be deemed necessary. If they interfered with the existing law, he thought they should do so effectually, and not leave it in an imperfect state so that it could be evaded. The course of objection taken by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire, would, he thought,. be equally applicable to the present qualification as to those proposed by the hon. Member for Bridport, because it seemed at present there
 808
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted, that it was within the province and duty of that House to look into and control every department, and especially so important a branch of the public service as the Post-office, with the view of regulating, diminishing, or altering the rate of duty charged on letters, and correcting any abuses which might be found to exist in the general management of the establishment. But, at the same time, he put it to the hon. Member for Greenock himself, whether it would not be misapplying the functions of Parliament and the time of the House, to undertake the task of determining the hours and other circumstances attending the opening and shutting of letter-boxes throughout the metropolis. It might be all very well to convey some suggestion on the subject to the recognised authorities at the Post-office, but it "was altogether inexpedient that the House should be called on at once, without inquiry and without knowing all the circumstances of the case, to adopt any general resolution on the matter. A great deal of those small matters of administration depended on minute local and other circumstances, which it was impossible for hon. Members duly to consider. The Post-office was responsible for its arrangements, and although something might be done with
 811
 Mr. Ewart  said, that the House was now considering, not the manner in which officers discharged their duty, but the principles which they held. If Lord Hill maintained the principles attributed to him, it was impossible that they should not bias his conduct. The government of the army would never be properly conducted so long as the authorities at the Horse Guards thought differently from the Administration; and it was essential to the
 815
 Mr. Tooke  said, he should be happy to meet the wishes of the hon. and learned Member for Huntingdon, if he could be insured a certain day on which the subject should be discussed. Therefore if this day fortnight were set apart for it, he should be most happy on that understanding now to adjourn the consideration of the proposition.
 Mr. Tooke : The object of the notice I have to submit to the House is to renew the resolution of February 26, 1830, with the addition of words carrying out the spirit of that resolution, purporting that neither the Member himself, nor any person in partnership with him, shall be engaged in transacting the private business of the House for pecuniary reward, whether such reward be received by the Member or by such partner, although by some collateral agreement the Member shall not participate in the profits of the Parliamentary business. Without, therefore, mooting the point of construction of the resolution as it now stands, and disembarrassing the question of all party feeling or personal application, it appears to me that there is no alternative between rescinding the resolution or of extending it as I propose; and I am clearly of opinion, that the latter is the course we should pursue. The profession have hitherto, as a body, to my certain knowledge, held that the resolution operated to preclude such qualified partnerships; and if once it is known that it does not, sure I am that there are several active and intelligent men among my professional brethren who will avail themselves of the latitude thus allowed to carry on a most lucrative concern. I know it may be alleged that there is no preventing near relations, or even friends, from engaging in the same course, without any tie of partnership; but this could never be carried on, or continued on the same scale of advantage as by an existing partnership, which allows of such constant and confidential intercourse as would give every facility for undue influence; indeed, as it is, a very thin partition divides us from an active, clever class of men, any one of whom obtaining by means of a limited partnership with a Member, a  locus standi 801
 Sir Andrew Agnew  deprecated opening the general post letter boxes on the Sunday. Hon. Members might be much better occupied than in writing letters on the Sunday. But if the present system were found inconvenient, and some change were desirable, he would much prefer extending the privilege of Members sending off twenty letters on the Monday, to opening the offices on the Sunday.
 Sir Charles B. Vere  said, that the army, as a body, ought not to have any political bias, and Lord Hill had proved by the admirable state of the army at present that he had supported that principle in the exercise of his command. There was no man deserved higher of his country than Lord Hill, and he ought not to be attacked by a side-wind motion of this nature.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  observed, that he had no desire to get rid of the important question brought forward by the hon. Member for Truro by moving the previous question, or that the House do proceed with the orders of the day, or indeed by any side wind. Neither had he any desire to meet the proposition by a direct negative, but, at the same time, if he was to be called upon at once to give an opinion whether the resolution ought to pass or not, he must give it his negative to-night. He hoped, however, that the House would not be forced to come to a hasty decision upon the subject. He could not avoid directing the attention of the House to a few cases, with respect to which the adoption of the resolution would be most objectionable. In the first place, he did not think the words were proper to meet the case lately brought under the attention of the House, with reference to the hon. Member for Penryn, who was admitted to have acted  bonâ, fide, 802
 Captain M. Berkeley  denied that he had made any charge, he had simply mentioned a fact in illustration and support of the position that it was unadvisable to intrust such power in hands that were hostile to the political principles of a Government.
 Captain M. Berkeley  was surprised, that doubts should have been expressed respecting the accuracy of the Statement he had made. He had been challenged to state names. He would do so. The gentleman on whose behalf the application was made to Lord Hill was Mr. Lovesey. The application was made by Lord Segrave and refused; but when made by the Beaufort family it was granted.
 Captain Maurice Berkeley  said, he
 817
 Sir R. Peel  took that opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman, or any other connected with Government, what were the regulations under which Parliamentary papers were sent by post? The general impression was, that Members were entitled to send a- Parliamentary paper, and provided it were of a limited weight great advantage might arise from it. [Mr. Hume. There is no limitation]. In that case there was the possibility of very great abuse. Suppose every Member exercised the privilege of sending reports, some of which weighed from eight pounds to ten pounds, it must obviously interfere with the arrangements of the Post-office. He could easily conceive great public advantage attending the circulation of their
 812 Hume  Hume
 Mr. Williams Wynn  denied that the course followed by the hon. Member for
 821 822
 Mr. Williams Wynn  would not offer any objection to the present motion, as he thought it might be expedient to consider the state of the law of qualification as it now stood. He had no objection to have the qualification consist of a permanent
 807 bond fide
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that it was not important what were the politics of Lord Hill, but only whether he had suffered himself to be swayed by political bias. Could hon. Gentlemen opposite bring any charge of that nature home to Lord Hill? In the absence of Lord E. Somerset it was impossible that the hon. House could lay any stress on the circumstance that had. been mentioned. After what had fallen from the hon. Members for Middlesex and Liverpool, it would be seen by what spirit the party opposite were actuated; nothing but party spirit could have dictated the amendment.
 Viscount Howick  rose but to make one observation. It was utterly impossible, he said, to give any answer to the statement that had just been made, ignorant as he was of the facts of the case; and when the hon. and gallant Officer reflected on what he had said, he thought the hon. and gallant Officer must acknowledge that he should not thus have brought forward a charge imputing blame to one who was not present to defend himself from the attack. He would call upon the House not to prejudge the case, but to wait until Lord E. Somerset, or some of his friends, bad an opportunity of explanation; it
 818
 Viscount Howick  wished to state that he differed entirely from the opinions put forth on this subject by the hon. Member for Middlesex. The duties of the Commander-in-chief were discharged by Lord Hill with perfect impartiality. He knew no instance to the contrary, and he believed none could be produced. He hoped the House, therefore, would not consent to strike off the whole of his salary, which had hitherto been regularly granted.
 Mr. Freshfield  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the hon. Member for Truro whether, when he stated last night that the resolution of 26th February, 1830, regarding Parliamentary agents had been got rid of by an evasion, he had alluded to his (Mr. Freshfield's) conduct?
 Mr. Tooke  had no hesitation in answering the question of the hon. Gentleman as, he was convinced that he (Mr. Freshfield) had acted most honourably, and upon the fair and honest conviction of his own mind. He (Mr. Tooke) had not, in the most distant manner, alluded to the hon. Member; but he had stated that persons less disinterested than the hon. Gentleman might evade the spirit of the resolution in the manner he had mentioned.
 Mr. Labouchere  replied, that his object in introducing the Post-office Bill, now on the table of the House, was to consolidate the laws relating to the Post-office department at present in force, and to remove some existing anomalies. This being the sole object of his Bill, he should listen to any suggestion for the introduction of new matter with extreme caution.
 Captain Berkeley  said, that the report which the noble Lord had just read to the House was nearly correct in every particular, except as it regarded Mr. Lovesey's father, whom he had stated to be dead; such was not the fact, though he did not consider it at all bore upon the question. With regard to another fact, it
 861 Morning Chronicle.
 Captain Berkeley  said, that in the first place, he did not think the noble Lord who had just sat down had any right to complain of his (Captain Berkeley's) want of courtesy in not having given him notice that he was about to mention to the House the name of the noble Lord's relative, and to bring his conduct before the House. When he came down last night, he found the House engaged in the discussion of the question, whether or not political bias prevailed at the Horse-Guards in favour of one party or the other, and if the Horse-Guards' authorities did not interfere improperly. The facts he had then stated, he still maintained were true in every word. He still maintained that Lord Segrave did on many and several occasions apply for this commission; that the answer was always the same, viz., that it was impossible to promise it, and that every delay was thrown in the way of his application. He should like to ask the noble Lord opposite who had read these letters to the House, whether he had taken the trouble to inquire for any letters written by Lord Segrave on this subject, and how often and in how many places that noble Lord applied for this very com-mission. The noble Lord opposite stated that he regretted that he had not had an opportunity of communicating with his noble relative in the country. So also did he (Captain Berkeley) regret that he had
 866 867
 Mr. Hope  said, it was much to be regretted that statements were too frequently made in this House, reflecting on individuals without their accuracy having been first ascertained. He rose to complain of some remarks attributed to the hon. Member for Ipswich, as having been made last night, as appeared in  The Times 868
 Mr. Hope  said, that the report quoted by the hon. Member cast a severe reflection on the noble Duke, who was charged with using such a threat, and upon the noble Lord to whom the threat was supposed to have been uttered. The only remark he could make upon it was, that the report quoted last night by the hon. Member for Ipswich was, from beginning to end, utterly without foundation in fact, and nothing ever passed between the two noble individuals in question that could give any colour or pretence for such a report.
 Colonel Thompson  said, that having been alluded to as one of two, he was
 886 887 levée en masse
 Captain Boldero  disclaimed being actuated on the present occasion by any desire to court popularity, as had been insinuated by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Fergusson), On the contrary, he maintained
 883 884 885
 Mr. Craven Berkeley  complained, that when the noble Lord opposite came down armed with these letters, he had not produced any of Lord Segrave's, nor the successful one of Lord Edward Somerset's. The noble Lord might try to convince hon. Members who were unacquainted with the county of Gloucester, that such was not the case, but it was notorious in that county, that when one of the Tory party applied at the Horse-Guards for a commission, it was obtained directly; but when one of the Whig party applied it was not to be obtained.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that the tone of the hon. Members for Gloucester and Cheltenham showed very clearly the  animus
 Lord Granville Somerset  was glad that the hon. and gallant Member had corrected one part of his statement. Well, he was extremely glad the hon. and gallant Member had corrected one part of the report. But it was somewhat curious to observe, that in all the papers the fact was stated much in the same way. But he was prepared now to state to the House the whole circumstances of the case to which the hon. and gallant Member had referred, in so far as Lord Fitzroy Somerset was concerned. If he understood the gist of the accusation, it was this,—that an application for a commission for Mr. Lovesey had been made by the head of the Whig party in the county of Glocester, meaning thereby Lord Segrave, and that he was unable to obtain it; but that immediately on an application being made through Lord Edward Somerset, the commission was immediately obtained. It had also been stated by the hon. and gallant Member, that the gentleman for whom the commission was desired, was anxious to obtain it, for the purpose of going abroad in a smart coat. On the statement of the hon. and gallant Member, he (Lord G. Somerset) would make no comment; but he would content himself with stating the circumstances of the case so far as Lord Fitzroy Somerset was concerned. It was impossible for him to have access since last night to Lord E. Somerset, as he was in the country; however, that could not vary the circumstances which he was about to state. The simple case was this. In the month of June, 1830, Lord F. Somerset received the letter he was about to read from Sir H. Campbell:
 "Richmond Park, June 1, 1830. "My Lord,—I have been requested to put
 862 "I have, &c, "HENRY CAMPBELL, Lieutenant-General. "To Major-General, Lord Fitzroy Somerset." "Charlton, near Cheltenham, May 30, 1830. "My Lord,—I beg most respectfully to request you will lay before his Lordship the Commander-in-chief of his majesty's forces my earnest solicitation to obtain, by purchase, a commission in the army for my son, John Whitehorne Lovesey, who has now attained his seventeenth year, and to which honourable profession he is most fully qualified from his habits and manners, as well as from the education he has perfected under the Rev. Thomas Rowley, of Bridgenorth, and the Rev. D. Davies, of Cranbrook, Kent, to whom, with the greatest satisfaction, I beg to refer for his character and general good conduct. "With the greatest respect, &c, "CONWAY W. LOVESEY. "To Lord Fitzroy Somerset, Military Secretary." "Horse Guards, June 4, 1830. "Sir,—I have laid before Lord Hill your letter of the 1st instant, and I have the pleasure to acquaint you that I have received his directions to add the name of Mr. John W. Lovesey to the list of candidates for the purchase of commissions, and to assure you that his Lordship will be glad to have the means of introducing that gentleman into the service. Lord Hill has, however, so many to provide for, that he cannot venture to hold out to Mr.
 863 "I have, &c, "FITZROY SOMERSET. "Lieutenant-General Sir H. Campbell, K.C.B." "Cheltenham, April 4, 1831. "My Lord,—With reference to your Lordship's letter of the 4th June, 1830, to General Sir Henry Campbell, in reply to the application, he was so good as to make to the Commander-in-chief for a commission, by purchase, for my relative, Mr. John W. Lovesey, and the interview I was honoured with by your Lordship in December last on the subject, I trust I may be excused, from the natural anxiety and interest I have for my relative, thus to trouble you to repeat my respectful but earnest hope that you may be pleased to bring the same again before his Lordship, the Commander-in-chief, and to assure you of the grateful obligation I shall ever be under to your Lordship by your kindness in furthering our views. "I have, &c., "F. H. MARSHALL, "Late 81st Regiment. "Major-General Lord F. Somerset." "Horse Guards, April 7, 1831. "Sir,—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th inst. "I shall be very happy to draw Lord Hill's attention to your wishes in behalf of Mr. Lovesey when I see a favourable opportunity; but that gentleman is still so low on the list that I am afraid it would be useless to urge his Lordship on the subject at this moment. "I have, &c. "FITZROY SOMERSET. "Captain Marshall." 864 "Cheltenham, April 5, 1832. "My Lord,—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter of the 31st ult., acquainting me of the success of my application for Mr. John Whitehorn Lovesey's commission of ensign in the 95th foot, and with a renewal of my best thanks for your Lordship's great kindness, I beg to acquaint you that the sum of 450 l. "I have, &c, "F. H. MARSHALL. "Lord Fitzroy Somerset." Berkeley 865
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that he was extremely
 859 860
 Major Fancourt  said, that in rising to move the appointment of a Committee to examine and report on the question of military punishments, he might be permitted to state the precise grounds on which he had been led to submit the question of flogging in the army to the consideration of the House in this particular form. It seemed to him, that after having yearly, and, he was sorry to add, unsuccessfully, divided the House on the immediate and entire abolition of corporal punishments in the British army, that it would be in some sort trifling with the House were he to trouble hon. Members for a mere repetition of their voles, without bringing forward further evidence in support of his own views. The appointment
 869 870 The London Medical 871 Gazette 872 d. s., 873 874 875 876
 Major Fancourt  explained. While he disclaimed all intention of saying anything disrespectful of those who composed the Commission, he had always thought it ought to have contained the names of some whose opinions were favourable to the abolition of corporal punishment.
 Major Fancourt  declined to particularise the regiment.
 Mr. Charles Wood  observed, that the supply of timber was open to competition.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that if when the hon. Member brought forward his motion, he would give him the particulars of the information he required, he would be prepared to assent to the returns, or to show such reasons for refusing them as he had no doubt would be satisfactory to the House. The first point to which the hon. Member had referred, was the expense incurred in building ships on the plan of Sir W. Symonds. The hon. Member had brought a charge against Sir W. Symonds on that ground.
 Mr. Charles Wood  would turn, then, to the next point which the hon. Member had made the object of his assault. He had said, that ships had been sold and broken up which were in a sound and seaworthy state. Now, he held in his hand, a report of a survey of the Scarborough, and from that it appeared that it was not possible that she could be sent to sea without undergoing repairs which would cost more than building a new ship. He might further state, with reference to the charge of building more ships than were wanted, that no ships were now building, nor had been built for the last two years, except small vessels or steamers. All the alterations referred to by the hon. Gentleman had been made before Sir W. Symonds was surveyor of the Navy.
 Mr. Charles Wood  reiterated his former statement respecting the repairs of the Boscawen, and confirmed it by reading the return of the repairs and the alterations made in that ship from 1810 to 1819. The report on the state of the Scarborough was made to the Admiralty through the surveyor by a scientific shipwright, who had seen the vessel, as the hon. Member said it should be seen, with his own eyes.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, that he had just as much knowledge of the statement to which the hon. and gallant Officer referred, as the hon. and gallant Officer had himself, and no more.
 Mr. C. Wood  observed, that two questions had been asked. The first question related to the number of ships which were at that time building in the dockyards. To that question he should reply by stating, that there were at present seven line-of-battle-ships building, the same number of frigates of the first class, nine of smaller dimensions, together with three armed steam-vessels. The second question related to the system of naval education, and to that question he should reply by stating, that the Government had considered a plan for the future education of the navy. The Admiralty were of opinion, that a better education would be given to our naval youth by blending their scientific education with that general system of education which it was desirable that every gentleman who entered the navy should possess. They had, therefore, decided, that to every ship of war there should be attached a competent schoolmaster, with an adequate salary, and that he should be well qualified for his duties, by being taken either from an English or a Scotch university. They had in consequence obtained an order of Council, raising the pay of all schoolmasters in the naval service to the amount given at present to a schoolmaster in a first-rate. The Admiralty likewise proposed, that as each
 912 l. l. l.
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer  thought, that the noble Lord, the Member for Glasgow (Lord W. Bentinck), had settled this question when, in his government of India, he declared, that the native soldiers should not be subject to the degradation of corporal punishment. The question now
 892 893
 Captain Polhill  said, that having passed a considerable period of his life in the army, he felt bound to say that he did not know how the power of inflicting corporal punishment could be abolished altogether without having recourse to a punishment much more awful, and much more serious to the offender, namely, that of death. He knew of cases within his own experience where, in marching regiments, but
 905
 Mr. George F. Young  declared, that he could not suffer this vote to be taken without expressing his objection to the present system by which the Government obtained their English oak for ship-building. It ought to be supplied by open competition and public contract.
 Mr. George F. Young  remarked, that the hon. Gentleman was perfectly incorrect in his statements. He had himself seen the Boscawen in the state in which she was originally built, and knew that she had undergone great alterations since Sir W. Symonds held his present office. With regard to the Scarborough, he took on himself to state, in spite of surveys, that she was as sound as a vessel could be. He asserted, that within the last
 909
 Mr. George F. Young : I brought no charge at all against Sir W. Symonds on the score of his plan causing greater expense than that of others.
 Mr. George F. Young  was glad to hear that such was the case, and therefore he would not repeat his objection to the present system, but he must express his objections to the system of suffering ships to rot in ordinary, while new ships were being built by way of experiment. He had seen with his own eyes, within the last fortnight, a 74-gun ship, which cost 60,000 l. l. l. 908 primâ facie
 Mr. George F. Young  had no doubt that the officers of the Barham would. have given the same favourable opinion of that ship that the officers of the Vernon had given of theirs, had they not been a little more discreet than the officers of their rival vessel.
 Mr. George F. Young  recommended the Admiralty to turn more of its attention to the building and equipment of armed steam-vessels. The steam-vessels belonging to our naval service were much inferior to those built by private enterprise. It was also to be lamented that our naval architects were in general so inferior to those of other countries. Sir William Symonds had printed a book upon the subject, of which he was now, in all probability, ashamed, as the merest tyro in hydrodynamics must see that he violated in it every principle of that science.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  entirely differed from the hon. Member for Finsbury. So far from considering it unfair on the part of the noble Lord to read those letters he thought it was no more than an act of duty. The statements of the hon. Gentleman with respect to Colonel Arthur were not characterised by that candour which he should have expected from him. The hon. Member found fault with the noble Lord for entering into any defence of Colonel Arthur's conduct, and complained of it as unfair. The hon. Member did not seem to remember that the petition presented by him contained six whole pages of attack upon that gallant officer, having reference, not merely to the subject of flogging, but embracing all the circumstances of a dispute of twenty years' standing between Colonel Arthur and Colonel Bradley, which originated at Honduras. That dispute had been four or five times the subject of discussion in that House. It was under consideration when Mr. Ellice was Secretary at War, when Sir John Hobhouse held the same situation—and upon all those occasions, whether the Whigs or Tories were in office, the conclusion come to was that Colonel Bradley had no case. The petition presented by the hon. Member for Finsbury merely stated that, in Colonel Bradley's opinion, Colonel Arthur, in the infliction of punishment at Honduras, acted with cruelty and inhumanity; but he mentioned no names, he stated no facts, he went into no detail of circumstances, he did not even say in what year it occurred. Now, was that a fair way of treating a gallant and meritorious officer, who had so long served the public faithfully and efficiently? Were his name and character to be thus brought before the public merely on account of a quarrel of twenty years' standing? The officer in command of the artillery at the time the punishment was inflicted at Honduras, and the gunners who witnessed the transaction, stated distinctly in their communications to the noble Lord (Lord Howick) that the punishment was inflicted in the usual way, without any circumstance of aggravation or of peculiar severity. From ail he knew and heard of Colonel Arthur it was his thorough conviction that
 902 903 904
 Mr. Bridgeman  knew many cases in which men had been flogged without having committed any offence. He knew of one case in which a man who was sentenced to be flogged said, that he should never survive it, and on being taken down and conveyed to the hospital, he took an opportunity of cutting his throat. He trusted that the House would sanction the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the whole subject.
 Mr. Hume  suggested, that Government should pay more attention to the building of steam-vessels of war, instead of those old-fashioned men-of-war which would not be found half so effective.
 Mr. Hume  considered the House entitled to have a fuller account than it had at present, of the number of ships in ordinary and in building, before the present vote was agreed to. He would take that opportunity of observing, that the right hon. Member for Cumberland had taken an unwise step in putting down, as he had done, the School of Naval Architecture, which had existed for more than twenty-eight years. Those who came after the present generation, would have cause to regret the mischief done to the naval service by the suppression of that school.
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that the right hon. Gentleman had cautioned the House against interfering, by any steps it might take on the present occasion, to impede the efforts made by the Commander-in-chief for the improvement of the military system; but the arguments of those, who thought with him on this question had been met by the same caution for the last twenty years, without leading to any substantive result. He had moved on the 2nd of April, 1833, a resolution in that House to restrict the infliction of corporal punishment to the offences of mutiny and drunkenness, which was lost by a majority of eleven, 140 voting for it, and 151 against it. It was intimated to him next day, when in his place, that the Commander-in-chief would issue an order in
 889
 Mr. Wason  said, that hon. Members who were in the House at the time would do him the justice to say that the statement alluded to was precisely in point with respect to the question then under discussion. If the hon. Member who had just sat down had never heard the report before, he believed he was the only hon. Member in that House who stood in that situation. If the report was incorrect, he felt, as every Gentleman must feel, sorry for having given currency to it.
 Mr. Wason : Those are the very words I used, or intended to use.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, it was rather a remarkable fact, that of all the witnesses who were examined before the military commission the hon. and gallant Gentle-
 877 878 879 880
 Mr. Lennard  cordially concurred in one at least of the statements of the right hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. R. Fergusson)—he confessed he saw no necessity for
 881 882 in terrorem
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  did not intend to find fault with the noble Lord for reading these letters. The noble Lord had told him about an hour ago that he intended to refer to the case, but he thought he should have some further
 898 899 Hear Name name 900 Name Name
 Mr. T. Duncombe  begged to observe that the discussion had not originated with him.
 Mr. Ewart  was astonished that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Fergusson) should have employed the argument that military men were best qualified to judge of the present question. Throughout the whole course of the ameliorations effected in the criminal law, the judges had been opposed to any alteration, and they were the last persons who ought to be consulted on a reform of the jurisprudence of the country. Experience proved, that professional men were generally opposed to any change of the system which they had themselves administered, and under which they had been educated. One objection urged against the abolition of flogging, by the Commission which had made their Report last year was, that drunkenness was far more prevalent in the British army than any other. This vice, however, was gradually disappearing before the progress of education and the improvement of morals, and the army was becoming every year more temperate. It ought to be the object of a wise and en-
 888
 Mr. Gillon  supported the motion. If a better system of rewards as well as punishments were introduced into the army, a much better class of men would be found to enlist in that department of the King's service. There had lately been a brevet which cost the country a great deal; he complained that promotion was not extended to the ranks. He hoped the Committee would be appointed, and would extend their inquiries into the whole system of the discipline of the army.
 Admiral Adam  said, that though the upper part of the Scarborough might be in a sound state, he had no doubt that it would be found upon further examination that her bottom was quite unsound. He was quite convinced, from examination, of the general correctness of the reports sent in by the surveyor of the navy.
 Admiral Adam  had only one observation to make to those which had fallen from his hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Admiralty. It was intended that the schoolmaster should have a separate cabin, and should mess with the other officers.
 Sir C. Dalbiac  said, the bravery displayed by the King's troops in the North of Spain was a striking illustration of the excellent effect of a system of discipline such as that now practised in our army. The hon. and gallant Officer proceeded to observe, in the midst of considerable confusion caused by the conversation which prevailed in the House, that he thought the same principle ought to apply to the navy and the marines as to the army; it appeared, however, that the abolition of flogging in the navy was a question which had been given up, even by the advocates of the present motion. He referred to the Report of the Criminal Law Commissioners, which stated that Dr. Starkie had given it as his opinion that corporal punishment might properly be inflicted in many cases of larceny and other offences. Now, if this punishment were to be left in the hands of the officers of the law, he could not see why high officers in the army should be precluded from resorting to it. His hon. and gallant Friend when before the Commission on military punishments, made reference to our particular regiment—he begged to ask him whether that regiment was the 12th Dragoons which he (Sir C. Dalbiac) took put to Bombay in the year 1822.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that he had himself been a midshipman eight or nine years, and during that time he had never been asked either to read or write, and had never received any instruction from any officer. He was happy to state, that that system of keeping young men in almost brutal ignorance no longer prevailed in our naval service. In all the ships which he had had the honour to command, he had always managed that there should be a competent schoolmaster. He had himself promised the schoolmaster a certain sum, and by making those young men, whose parents could
 913
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that if steamboats were built, and had to carry coals sufficient for steam, they could not at the same time carry men, and their necessary provisions; so that, in fact, a navy of steam-vessels would, for the purposes of war, be no navy at all. No Ministry would dare leave the country trusting to such a navy.
 Sir E. Codrington  spoke as follows * * 914 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d.; l. s. 915 l. s. d. l. s. d. s. s. d., s.; l. l. s. s. s. s. s. 916 s. d. s. s. d. s. d., s. 917 l. l. l., l. l. s. 918 s. 919 l. l. l. 920 l. s. l. l. 921 l. l. s.; l. s. l. 922 l. l. l. s. l. l.
 Sir George Grey  felt himself bound to protest against the course adopted by the hon. Member for Finsbury in endeavouring to raise a prejudice against Colonel Arthur, in anticipation of the motion which the hon. Member had given notice of for the 1st., of June, and this, too, by the statement of circumstances which he (Sir G. Grey) fully believed could not be substantiated by evidence, and which were, indeed, altogether at variance with facts within his knowledge. The conduct of Colonel Arthur in Van Diemen's Land had been such as to elicit the warm thanks of each successive Colonial Secretary, and to procure for the gallant officer the esteem, nay, the affection of a great majority of the colonists, an esteem and affection unequivocally shown in the fact that a large subscription had been raised among the colonists for the purchase of a piece of plate, to be presented, in the name of the colony, to Colonel Arthur. It was well understood that Colonel Arthur was fully prepared to rebut every charge that had been made against him, and the only reason that the gallant officer had not already come forward to meet these charges in person was the very sufficient one, that on his landing at Plymouth he had been attacked by a dangerous illness, which had confined
 901
 Captain Pechell  also contended, that in this case the surveyor bad done his duty, and that the ship was wholly unfit to remain in his Majesty's service. Whilst on his legs, he would take the liberty of asking the Secretary for the Admiralty whether a statement which had recently appeared in the public papers respecting the capabilities of the Vernon, and which purported to be signed by a number of her officers, was an official statement? It was an unusual course for the officers of one of his Majesty's ships of war to express an opinion publicly respecting the merits of the ship in which they sailed. But if that course were correct, and if officers were to be permitted to express opinions favourable to their ship, he trusted that they would also be permitted to express opinions, when they felt them, unfavourable to their ship. The gallant Officer read an advertisement stating the excellent sailing qualities of the Vernon. signed by a number of her lieutenants and six midshipmen. Now, was that statement official or not? If it were official, and it were held correct for his Majesty's naval officers to make such a statement, then in case he were again put in command of such a frigate as he had once commanded, he should feel himself at
 910
 Sir James Graham  observed, that what had just fallen from the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty, appeared to him to be in the main, most satisfactory. He thought that there should be one definite and uniform system of naval education, which the qualified schoolmasters should all be bound to teach. In a matter of such importance to our naval service, there should be no stickling about such paltry economy as the saving of 50 l. l.
 Sir James Graham  remarked, that he had on a former occasion, when he was in office, shown, from official documents, that from the time of William 3rd down to the time when he was speaking, there was never a smaller number of ships in ordinary in time of peace than now. With respect to the suppression of the School of Naval Architecture, he begged to console the hon. Member for Middlesex by assuring him, that if any mischief arose from that measure, it must be very distant, as there were many gentlemen who had been educated in that school, now in the dockyards, who were capable, if they were elevated to the situation, of fulfilling the duty of surveyor of the navy. He would now avail himself of the opportunity to ask the Secretary of the Admiralty a question respecting the suppression of the Naval College. He thought that the decision to which the Admiralty had come on that subject, was, upon the whole, a wise one. It was necessary, however, to consider how the naval youth were in future to be educated, to whom the honour of the British flag and the lives of British seamen were to be confided. He had himself unquestionably contemplated the
 911
 Viscount Howick,  in explanation, stated that the petition of Colonel Bradley was not confined to the question of the infliction of undue punishment, but embraced a variety of matters.
 Viscount Howick  wished sincerely that the hon. Gentleman by whom this motion was brought forward, had explained a little more distinctly what was the precise object of it. He should like to know distinctly, whether it were only a renewal, in another shape, of the gallant Member's motion of last year for the immediate abolition of flogging in the army, or whether the gallant Member really conceived that before the House could make up its mind upon the subject, before it could arrive at a satisfactory decision upon this important question, further information and an additional collection of facts were required. If the latter were the gallant Member's object, if he really proposed the appointment of this Committee, not merely as an indirect means of getting a few additional votes to condemn the existing mode of punishment in the army, if he took this course on the ground that the House was not in possession of sufficient facts or sufficient information to enable it properly to decide the question, he could not help expressing the surprise he felt that in the last Session of
 894 895 896 897 The Times
 Viscount Sandon  said, that it could not be supposed, that a Select Committee of the House would be able to collect a greater mass of information than the Commission appointed by his Majesty, or to deduce from it more accurate conclusions. That Commission had examined the commanding officer of almost every regiment in the service, and had investigated the subject with the greatest possible minuteness. Great stress had been laid on the Prussian military system, and the alleged beneficial effects which it produced. He was surprised that a system so utterly unfitted for the habits, manners, and feelings of the people of this country should be held up to the public as one
 890 891
 Mr. F. Baring  was understood to say, that inquiries had been instituted to ascertain what it was possible to do in the case adverted to by the right hon. Member for Tamworth. He was not aware that any objection existed to the production of the whole of the papers which had reference to the subject.
 Sir E. Wilmot  begged to ask the noble Lord whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill in the present Session embodying the recommendation of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the criminal law respecting the age at which boys were to be subjected to summary punishment?
 927
 Captain Berkeley  stated, that when he had been called upon to say whether Mr. Lovesey had made use to Lord Segrave of the words imputed to him in the Morning Chronicle, his answer was, that Mr. Lovesey had not done anything of the sort; but that it had been communicated to Lord Segrave that such was the intention of Mr. Lovesey in the event of his obtaining the commission through the interest of the Beaufort family. It now appeared, from the letter which the noble Lord had just read, that Mr. Lovesey denied having any such intention; and he (Captain Berkeley) gave the noble Lord the full benefit of that denial. But there was still this plain, broad, and simple fact, that at the election which took place shortly after the commission was granted, Mr. Lovesey, who had never before voted for a Tory, did vote on the Tory side. That was a fact which could not be contradicted; and on that fact he took his stand.
 Lord John Russell  rose, and moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  could assure the House that he should be most happy, if possible, to avoid a discussion upon a subject which, having been already before the House two Sessions, had been so fully debated, that almost every argument and illustration with reference to it was exhausted. But he felt it impossible, consistently with
 930 931 932 933 l. l. 934 l. l. 1. bonâ fide s. 935 936 937 938 939 940
 Mr. Tancred  was satisfied that if Corporations had never been known in Ireland still such beneficial effects would result from their establishment in that or in any other
 941 942
 Mr. Hamilton  said, that as a Member for Dublin, and connected in that capacity with the largest and most important of the Irish Corporations, as well as with the largest of the Irish constituencies, he was unwilling to give a silent vote on the important question then before the House, though it had been so frequently and ably discussed that he was not vain enough to suppose he could say anything that was new on the subject. The metropolis of Ireland was, indeed, so studiously excluded from the operation of the Bill in many important particulars, that he almost felt that he owed an apology to the House for offering himself at all to its notice as connected with that city; and, certainly, if he were a supporter of the principle of the Bill he should feel that he had reason to complain that Dublin was excepted in almost everything that really appertained to self-government or fiscal and municipal regulations. It did appear to him that in the discussions during the present session the question had been placed by those who supported the measure upon somewhat new grounds; or at least that language had been held both in and out of the House which was calculated to place it in what he believed to be its true and proper light, and to furnish its opponents with their strongest and best arguments against it. The proposition of the noble Lord was now supported by two classes of persons—both in and out of Parliament; those who were anxious, and avowed themselves, to advance the democratic principle and influence; and those who were seeking to strengthen the Roman Catholic interest, with a view, first, to the subversion of the Established Church, and with a view afterwards to other and ulterior objects. Now it was precisely because he thought that the one ought to be strenuously resisted, and the other strenuously restrained, that he felt himself compelled to vote against the measure.
 943 944 945 946
 Mr. R. Dillon Browne  could not offer any new arguments, the subject having been already so frequently and ably debated. Every argument had been used in support of the expediency and justice of the measure, and used, too, with the most triumphant success. Indeed, if the object of any hon. Gentleman was to combat the arguments of the Tory benches, there would not be much necessity for drawing on his ingenuity, or for seeking out new matter, for hon. Members opposite had not offered a single argument in justification of their opposition. They had upon every occasion deserted the narrow space which comprehended the real matter in debate, and they had taken up theirs upon the wide common of personality and vituperation. Like the learned Sergeant, the Member for Bandon, when they found they could not combat their adversaries by any efficient opposition, they tried, like the lord of misrule in the old mummeries, to shake their swords of lath at the King's executive in Ireland. They had also opposed this measure in defiance of every principle of reasoning; they refused to Ireland identity of law as well as identity of allegiance, because they objected to the viceroy, who was a mere existing accident; they refused great principles of justice on account of the bare existence of accidental circumstances; and thus they, arguing from the particular to the universal, proved that what they considered false in logic they considered, in Ireland at least, right in justice. The question before the House involved a great national consideration, whether the Government of this country should consider the people of Ireland as British subjects or not, and by what means they should exact allegiance from them. He thought it was a great political maxim, that in proportion as the allegiance of a people was the condition upon which they claimed the protection of the government of a country, so in the same proportion a
 947 948 949 950 "Defluit saxis agitatus humor: Concidunt venti, fugiuntque nubes, Et minax (quod sic voluere) ponto Unda recumbit."
 Colonel Verner  did not rise for the purpose of following the hon. Member who had just sat down, through the speech which he had just delivered. It was neither his wish nor intention to occupy so much of the time of the House; he merely rose to make one observation before he gave his vote upon the motion now before the House. It was said by some hon. Members on the opposite sides
 951 952
 Mr. Bellew  said, that after the discussion which this subject had already undergone, he should not go into any details, but would view the present measure as a section of the plan upon which the people of Ireland were to be governed, and he would say, that if the Bill even did not pass it would have no effect upon the present popular Government of Ireland. The peace of that country had already been restored by the mild sway of the Lord-Lieutenant, and the laudable exertions of the associations of the people themselves. He did not wonder at the opposition given to this measure by the hon. Gentlemen
 953
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  said, one asks for some great statesmanlike principle when a whole policy is at question. What is the principle here? A difference between the state of Ireland and England. Is that the principle? Well, then, Gentlemen are told of the difference between England and Ireland in regard to the Church question; what do they reply? That this difference is not to be taken into account—that Ireland is to be governed not as Ireland, but as part of the empire of Great Britain. They deny this difference on religious matters where the two people do notoriously differ; they contend for it on State matters, where, if the Catholic Emancipation Bill is not a lie, there is no such difference: was there ever anything so perfectly absurd as this? But let us carry on the argument: if the people are in a peculiar condition from all other countries, what follows as a consequence? That in legislating for such a people you must consult their peculiar wishes their peculiar interests. And how can you best ascertain these? Why from themselves to be sure. If, then, the Irish essentially differ from the English, you are bound in legislating for Ireland to consult the feelings and the opinions of the majority of the Irish people as expressed-by their representatives. If the Irish do not essentially differ from the English, you are bound to govern them by the English law. He did not see how Gentlemen could escape from one of these two conditions. But they gave the Irish nation representation for the purpose of knowing the sentiments of that nation, in order that they might legislate according to those sentiments? No, in opposition to those sentiments. This is all their care. When the majority of the Irish nation say, we wish in this matter to be held as apart from England, then you at once declare, that the two countries are to be considered as the same. When the majority of the Irish people say, we wish to be considered not as a sect apart, but as a portion of the citizens of the British
 954 955 956 957
 Lord Stanley  began by remarking upon the desolate appearance the House presented, when a debate of that nature was before it. He did not, he said, wish to add much to what he had already said upon this subject, He did hot hope to be able to attract much of the attention of the House, Still less did he hope that any thing be could address to hon. Members could in the slightest degree alter the opinion, or at all events the vote, of any hon. Member. He was well aware that the House of Commons had by a majority varying from sixty-five to eighty, at different times, recorded its general acquiescence in the measure proposed by his Majesty's Ministers. That was a position which he did not dispute, but be was anxious before the discussion terminated to state why, notwithstanding that opinion of the House, he still persisted in his opposition to the third reading of the present Bill. He thought that the present state of the House would be a sufficient guarantee that he could not be tempted to trespass upon their time at any great length. In his opinion in the present state of society, and more particularly looking to the present state of the Church in that country, it was not safe to give to Ireland municipal institutions, or at least not to give them those municipal institutions which were given by this Bill. He rested his objection to the third reading of the Bill on the ground of the partial provisions of the Act itself;
 958
 Mr. H. L. Bulwer  begged to explain. What he had stated was, the opinion delivered by some persons as to the course which the right bon. Baronet would pursue when he came into office—that he then perhaps might make the excuse of having passed a tithe measure, and that, having done so, then he might say, that the Church was safer than it was before, and consent to a Corporation Bill. He did not say that the right hon. Baronet would come into office—he did not say anything of the kind.
 Lord Stanley  was willing so to take the statement of the hon. Gentleman. That which the hon. Gentleman reported to have been stated by some persons he made as a charge against the right hon. Baronet of deceiving his countrymen as to the course he would take. His answer to this was, that the right hon. Baronet could not take any course in office which he was not prepared to support out of office. Let the hon. Gentleman call upon his Majesty's Ministers to take that course with the Church which they ought to do. What had his Majesty's Ministers done? they had put three questions together—the state of the Irish poor, of the Church, and municipal institutions. They bad put forward one question as the popular measure—they kept back the other two—they did not tell them what they would do with the other two, although all were combined in his Majesty's speech. If the state of society in the two countries were
 959 960 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 961 962 963
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, the noble Lord has very properly stated his conviction, that nothing that fell from him would induce any Member to change their opinion on the measure before the House. He has said nothing on the subject of any weight whatever; his objections to the Bill, unimportant as they were, came too late; they should have been made in Committee, and not on the third reading, but it sufficed his purpose to raise a clamour against the measure, and complain of the want of civilisation among the people of Ireland as a ground of objection. This argument, and others of a similar nature, he urged with less asperity, and less success than usual. His attack was a failure, and his objection to the charge in the Bill regarding the sheriffs was futile. Would he have supported it if the power was vested in the council, and, as he says he would prefer it, why did he not support it when proposed to be introduced into the Bill? The old theme, that the Protestant Church would be endangered, is also brought forward by the noble Lord. This from a person who struck off at one blow ten bishops! Was that no encroachment? Was that not an attack on the Church—a very direct spoliation? And with what colour can he appear against this measure, on the ground that it affects the Church? The great objection, in fact the only objection, is, that the great body of the people who are to reap the benefit of this measure, are Roman Catholics; that is
 964 965 Chronicle, 966 967 968 969
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  said, that he was unwilling the debate should close without having an opportunity of stating to the House, as shortly and clearly as he could, the grounds on which he opposed this Bill. It would be as absurd in him to attempt to defend the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, from the charges of ignorance and incapacity which had just been brought against him, as it was discreet in the Member for Meath to make them. He would take leave, however, to tell that hon. Gentleman that he was labouring under the strangest misapprehension, if he supposed that he had made one single convert, either by his invectives or his arguments. He (Mr. Gaskell) had listened with great attention to the whole course of this debate: he had heard Gentlemen descant at great length upon the abstract merits of municipal institutions; he had heard them appeal to the fears of their opponents and to the passions of their supporters, and prefer charges of injustice and of insult against those who differed from them in opinion. But he had not heard one single attempt to show, that in the present social and political state of Ireland, it would be wise or politic to intrust any additional power to its Roman Catholic population. He knew the answer which would be made to this. Gentlemen would say, "That may be all very well, but you are too late with your opposition. This Bill is the natural and legitimate consequence of Roman Catholic relief. You no longer retain the means of successful resistance, and you had better acquiesce in it at once." Undoubtedly, if he (Mr. Gaskell) held that opinion—if he thought that, in rejecting this Bill, they were rejecting any implied obligation which the Act of 1829 had imposed on them, or that they were making any declaration of hostility against the Irish people, he should withhold his vote from the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn). But he believed, on the contrary, that in supporting this Bill he should be acting in direct contravention of the spirit of the Relief Act; for if it were no part of the object of that Act to impose civil disabilities on the Protestants as well as remove them from the Catholics, then this
 970 971 972 973
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, I think it impossible for any man to take a review of this debate, both on the present and on former occasions, when the same question was before the House, without being satisfied that the real, and indeed the only objection which is relied upon against extending to Ireland the municipal institutions which you have established in England and Scotland, is the fact that the majority of the people of Ireland are Roman Catholic.
 974 975 976 977 978 979 980 tola cælo 981
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I do not wish to deceive the House, as to the question which we have really to determine. We are called on to decide whether we will give a third reading to this Bill, or whether we will leave the people of Ireland to those existing corruptions which, it has been fairly acknowledged in another place, are too gross and exclusive to be capable of being defended or upheld. It is now some time since a Bill passed into a law which stayed the corruptions that had long been practised in many Corporations of this country, and winch happily arrested the progress of their mal - administration; and this, avowedly, on the ground of their want of trustworthiness, At the same time, Ireland remained, and still continues, subject to this exercise of these corrupt practices, on the part of many of the Corporations,—to this mal-administration of the affairs of the communities they are set over,—and to this excluding spirit, which the great purport of the Bill before us is to remedy. Hon. Gentlemen on the other side tell us they object to this Bill, because it tends to substitute one exclusive domination in towns for another,—to take the exclusive dominion in Corporation affairs out of the hands of one set of men, and to place it in those of another.
 982 983 984 985 cadit quœstio, 986 987 988 989 990 The Lords still entertain the hope that the two Houses of Parliament may, at no distant time, devise such measures of Reform in the administration of local affairs as may give real contentment, by effecting real improvement, by promoting social and religious peace in the cities and towns in Ireland. I could not reconcile the plan proposed by the party with which I have the honour generally to act with my own interests, either as to
 991 992 993
 Mr. Sham  said, he would not at that late hour attempt to follow the right hon. Gentleman through his lengthened speech; he knew the House and the subject were exhausted. He was conscious, too, how frequently during the progress of the measure he had trespassed on the attention of the House, and he was reluctant to trouble them at all on that occasion; he would do so as briefly as possible, in answer to some of the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He could not, however, but think that the real bearings of the measure were not yet understood, and that the House and the country (he particularly meant England) were still unaware of the precise character either of the proposed Bill, or of the nature and limited extent of the opposition which was offered to it. First, he must advert to the fallacy of the right hon. Gentleman, that those who, on that side of the House, admitted that the ancient Corporations should be abolished, were, on that account, bound to support the third reading of the present Bill. No; it was they who had offered the alternative, and the Government, who, if they had desired
 994 995 996 997
 Mr. Scarlett  contended, that the noble Lord had completely vindicated the course which had been pursued by the commander of the forces; and that the whole gist of the charge was gone.
 Lord Granville Somerset  was sorry again to intrude on the House with a personal affair; but the conversation in which they had been engaged on Friday with regard to a military commission compelled him. Since that time he had had a communication with Lord E. Somerset, who staled, that as far as his recollection went, he had never made any written application for a commission for Mr. Lovesey; and that he had never entertained the slightest expectation of obtaining Mr. Lovesey's vote by getting him a commission. He (Lord Granville Somerset) had also had a communication with Captain Marshall, who denied that any political inducements had been resorted to obtain the commission. But the most important communication was a letter which he held in his hand from Mr. Lovesey himself, in which he declared that the charge brought against him of a change of politics in consequence of obtaining a commission from the Beaufort family was distinctly untrue. He had never been asked to make, nor had he made, any concession of political principle upon the occasion. He felt that he should not do justice to that Gentleman if he did not submit the letter to the House. He had given an intimation of his intention to do so to the hon. Member for Gloucester; and with the permission of the House he would read the letter:—
 "Coxhome-house, Cheltenham, April 9,1837. "My Lord,—I have read with much surprise the mention which has been made by Captain Berkeley of the application made by
 928 "I remain, my Lord, "Your most obedient obliged servant, "C.N. LOVESEY." "To Lord Granville Somerset."
 Lord G. Somerset  declared, that if he found any more letters he should have great pleasure in producing them. But it was very hard to call upon him to do what was impossible; to produce what was not in existence.
 Lord G. Somerset  would only remark, that two years elapsed between the granting of the commission and the election. The commission was granted in 1832; the election did not take place until 1834. When Mr. Lovesey applied for the commission to Lord Fitzroy Somerset, the latter did not know what Mr. Lovesey's political oponions were.
 Lord G. Somerset  would be most happy to produce such a letter if the hon. Mem-
 929
 Lord G. Somerset  observed, that the applications made by both Lord E. Somerset and Lord Segrave were personal applications, and were so entered in the book kept at the Horse-Guards.
 Lord John Russell  had no intention to bring in any such Bill himself, nor did he believe that any other Member of his Majesty's Government contemplated doing so. If the hon. Baronet thought proper to bring in a Bill upon the subject, he (Lord John Russell) would give it his serious attention, and if he found that it did not violate the principle of trial by jury it should have his support.
 Mr. Harvey  supported the Bill, and said that the question was, whether the clergymen at the west end of the town were entitled to a higher rate of fees than those at the other parts of the town? There were already three Cemetery Bills in connexion with the metropolis, that had passed into law, namely—the Northern Cemetery, the Southern Cemetery, and the Eastern Cemetery: under all these Acts the fees paid to the clergyman were 20 s. s. 924 s., s.
 Mr. Harvey  brought up the
 923
 Mr. Gally Knight  felt extreme objections to this measure on account of the inadequacy of the compensation proposed to be given to such of the clergy as would be affected by the Bill. He was quite sure that the House would not allow the clergy to be deprived of so considerable a portion of their income as was derived from mortuary fees. Under the circumstances of the case it was his intention to press for the re-commitment of the Report, with a view to obtain some more fair compensation for the clergy.
 Mr. G. Knight  said he would not press his amendment.
 Mr. Hume  begged leave to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was true, as had been reported, that his Majesty's Government had agreed to contribute towards the relief of the distress prevailing in the north of Scotland?
 Mr. Hume  allowed, that if Parliament had not been sitting, his Majesty's Government would have been justified in taking the course which they had taken; but, during the sitting of Parliament, he did not think there was the slightest ground for such a proceeding. The House ought to have had notice of the transaction before the public money was appropriated to such a purpose. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would take an early opportunity of laying on the table of the House the documents which, in his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) opinion, warranted the step which had been taken by his Majesty's Government.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his hope that the House would allow the Bill to go on another stage.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the noble Lord had produced those letters, but had left unproduced the most important one, namely, the letter written by Lord Edward Somerset to his brother at the Horse-Guards.
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that the noble Lord had certainly led the House to believe, that such letters were in existence, for he talked of a strict search having been made for them. Why search for that which it was known was not in existence? It appeared to him (Mr. Hume), and it was the feeling of those who sat around him, that the noble Lord intended to convey the impression that such letters were in existence, and in his opinion their non-production would make the case complete.
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared from the noble Lord's former statement that such applications had been made.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that on the whole his Majesty's Govern-
 926
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he did not like to answer questions of that nature prematurely; and he was sure his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, would allow that if there ever was a subject which required to be treated with more discretion than another, it was that to which the question he had just put referred. However, as the question had been put, he would answer it; and if the answer was not as full as his hon. Friend might wish, his hon. Friend must impute it to the cause to which he (the Chancellor
 925
 Mr. Wakley  said, it was monstrous that after this Bill had gone leisurely through all its stages, the parties to it should now be put to the expense of going back again before the Committee. The fees in the Bill were in exact accordance with those introduced into two other similar Bills which had passed that House, and received the sanction of the right rev. Prelates in the other House.
 Sir R. Inglis  observed that the question was, not what had been allowed in other cases, but what had been the average charges in the parishes about to be affected.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that he had a short time ago presented a petition to the House from the town of Dundee, respecting the ice-bound whale ships. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether any measures had been adopted by his Majesty's Government for the purpose of endeavouring to afford relief to those vessels and their unfortunate crews. Several memorials had been presented to Government on the subject. Did any objection exist to their production?
 Mr. A. Trevor  was opposed to the Bill as it stood at present because he wished to see the interests of the clergy respected.
 Lord Howick  distinctly understood the hon. Member for Gloucester to state in the first instance, that Mr. Lovesey's application was made, not to Lord E. Somerset, but to Lord Segrave.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down had made a very un-English sort of speech, by holding up the case of French towns as examples to be followed by England in refusing the advantages of a participation in political rights to Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell : Those towns had portions of political rights only; they had no entire political rights; and therefore it was that he was about to comment upon the instance quoted of the French towns. The hon. Gentleman had given them strong reasons for voting one way, and had declared his wish to vote for the Bill, and yet persevered in the determination to vote against it. With reference to the words which had been imputed to him, if he had not had an ulterior object in view, he should not have adopted them. He should not now perform his duty if he did not make an appeal once more to the English Legislature, or rather to such portion of it as would condescend to listen to him, and to hear him again advocate his favourite demand of "Justice to Ireland!" Yes; he demanded justice for Ireland. There could be no tranquillity in that country, and God forbid there ever should be, till they obtained justice. Till they obtained justice agitation would increase. But the hon. Gentleman ought to make his vote tally more with his argument. Now he called for justice for Ireland. Justice consisted in an equality of civil and political rights. England enjoyed the advantages of Municipal Corporations; Scotland the same; and should he be told that Ireland was not to have Municipal Government? Did hon. Members on the opposite side seek to postpone the concession of this right to Ireland? Suppose that Ireland already had her Municipal Corporations, and that Englan
 1052 1053 1054 Shaw: 1. 1055 1056 1. s. d. 1057 1058 s. d., l. 1059
 Colonel Thompson  said, that, without making any promise not to be "somniferous"—and on looking round he saw sad symptoms of the progress the disease of somnolency had made in invading their proceedings—he must say one part of the question appeared to have been entirely overlooked, and that was in what light the "young blood" of England might happen to view the case, if Ireland was driven to the extremities which hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared to be bent on? That House ought not to make itself too sure of being a rigid criterion of all the feelings and sentiments existing in the country. There were large masses from which it was the boast and glory of that House to separate itself, as from a  profanum vulgus, 1062 1063
 Lord Stanley  had said, that the Protestant Dissenters, by the 9th George 4th., were placed in the same situation as the Catholics have since been by the 10th of George 4th; for, in the latter Act, it was found necessary to provide that the 9th of George IV. should not be dispensed with.
 Lord Francis Egerton  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had mentioned a fact, of which he was before entirely ignorant; namely, that scarcely a night passed in which some hon. Member in that (the Opposition) side of the House, who was formerly distinguished for his advocacy of the Catholic claims, did not come down and express a wish to see the Catholic Relief Bill repealed. He certainly was not aware of this circumstance, and with respect to himself, it was perhaps unnecessary for him to say that he entertained no such desire. It was unfair to charge those who objected to the present Bill with being opposed to the Roman Catholics as a body; but they could not avoid seeing that in the present state of Ireland every question relative to that country assumed a religious tinge; for such was the division of society in that country, that the great mass of Catholics belonged to the lower orders, while the higher and wealthy class was com posed of Protestants. This division of society produced a state of circumstances which induced him
 1072 Cheer. 1073
 Lord John Russell  could well conceive that it must have been the wish of the right hon. Gentleman opposite to have had the debate closed on the previous evening, for a position more difficult or more embarrassing than that in which the right hon. Gentleman was placed, he had never witnessed in that House. On former occasions, and upon the very last discussion of this question, the proposition raised by hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House was, that Municipal Corporations ought not even to be reformed, but that they were to be entirely abolished in Ireland. This was an argument which he thought was quite untenable—it was one which he thought did not support the views of those who used it; but it was an argument which must be paralyzing to those who maintained it, when they now argued for the utility of Corporations, but refused to give them to the Irish at this time. They yielded with great propriety to the declared sense of the House, that Municipal Corporations in Ireland ought not to be abolished—that they might and must be reformed, and yet at the present time, and in the present state of society,
 1084 l. l. 1085
 Lord John Russell  thought, it would have been much better, as well as much more convenient, that his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) should have stated his opinion upon points of detail when the Bill was in Committee. For his own part, he could only repeat at that moment the
 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095
 Lord John Russell : The right hon. Baronet said, the corporate towns did not ask for this measure; but the people of Ireland generally did, he supposed he would allow. But the people of Ireland were in this unfortunate condition, that if they did not speak out loudly, or if they expressed their anxiety without noise, then it was said that they were not eager for the measure; but if they urged their claim vigorously, then came the portentous declaration from Gentlemen opposite, that they would not yield to the clamour from without. And then the right hon. Gentleman touched upon a topic which he should have thought he ought to have omitted, after the previous speeches, namely, that of the misfortune of mixing up politics with religion. Now hardly any hon. Member had mingled religion with politics. If, indeed, any one had brought forward religious matter, it had been the right hon. Gentleman himself. He would ask what was the meaning of the passage which the right hon. Baronet read from a pamphlet, giving a description of a Spanish priest, on a former evening? Did he, or did he not, mean to apply that paragraph to the priests of Ireland? And, if the right hon. Baronet read the passage for this purpose, was it fair, he would ask, to make this sort of wholesale accusation against the priests of six millions of people, and then give them a solemn lecture on the impropriety of mixing up religion with politics? The right hon. Gentleman had said, that his noble Friend (Lord Morpeth) near him, had declared this not to be a vital question. Now what his noble Friend did state was this, that there were other vital questions to be considered, but that this was not, perhaps, the most vital. He had declared on former nights, and he had not departed from his opinion, that this was a vital question to the present Administration. He had before stated the same thing, and his opinion had undergone no change. Then, again, the right hon. Gentleman said, that he would not agree to this Bill, because certain resolutions had been passed by the General Association of Ireland. He would presently advert to those resolutions, but, in the mean
 1086 1087 James Graham 1088 1089
 Mr. Villiers  said, that as he observed a disinclination on the opposite side to take any part in the debate, and that as the "leisure moment" which his hon. Friend the Member for Hull had spoken of had not entirely ceased, he would take the liberty of making a few observations upon the question; and first he would say that he did not wonder at the course which the discussion had taken upon this question being the subject of general remark, and that astonishment was expressed that a measure which was thought of sufficient importance to justify resistance at the expense of offending the pride and feeling of numbers of our fellow-subjects should go forth from this House to be thrown out in the other House without an argument being offered in answer to those by which it had been supported, and that here, in this second stage of the debate, that we should hear only repeated those personalities, those fallacies, that bigot cry, which had done so little credit to the House on the former occasion, and which had then been the subject of such just reproof from this side of the House. He was not surprised at this, as he had observed from the first a deliberate purpose on the other side to remove the question from its natural province, and to argue and to use it for other purposes; and, whether wisely or not, he had seen that the other side, distinguished as it was from this upon principle, were determined to take their stand before the country on this question. It had been selected to make an experiment upon the present opinion of the country. The reform of the institutions of the country, and the resistance to that reform, had brought the struggle now to a question of principle, and the ground was now fairly chosen on which to decide the contest by which power the policy of this country was to be guided and governed in future. The question was whether the general policy of the Government of this country was to be dictated by the House of Lords or the House of Commons. That was fairly the conflict in which we were engaged. The advocates of governing this country by the
 1067 1068 1069 1070 1071
 Mr. Finch  contended, that the principle laid down by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, if carried out to its full extent, would lead to the inevitable destruction of the Established Church in Ireland. He maintained that there was no need of corporations in Ireland, and that they could confer no benefit upon the people. Where was the advantage resulting from corporations
 1060 1061
 Mr. Knight : The towns in France had municipal rights, but they did not pervert them to political purposes.
 Mr. Gally Knight : I sincerely hope the wish which the hon. Member for Middlesex expressed about himself may be fulfilled; but I cannot say that I think his speech was calculated to reconcile Gentlemen on this side of the House to the measure proposed. It will increase their alarms instead of inspiring them with confidence; and as no material alterations have been made in the Bill during its progress through the Committee (and it would have been useless for us to have attempted any, for we are in the hands of not a very conceding majority, and no attempts would have been successful), it is impossible for me or for any man who has voted against the Bill in its previous stages, not to vote against the third reading; but, at the same time, I am free to confess, that it would give me great satisfaction if at some future time this Bill were to return to this House under similar circumstances, and with such modifications, as would enable us to bring this  vexatissima questio 1050 ignis fatuus 1051
 Mr. Hume  said, it was not his intention to intrude very long upon the patience and attention of the House, but feeling strongly the importance of the measure now before the House, as essential to the peace of the United Kingdom, and feeling also that its rejection would be of serious consequence to the Church of Ireland, he wished to state to the House what he had
 1044 1045 1046 1047 1048
 Mr. William Roche  said, that the gallant Colonel who just sat down alluded to the almost ealised invasion of Ireland by General Hoche. He referred to the gallant Member's allusion because nothing could exceed the loyal spirit, the heroic enthusiasm, and cordial co-operation with the national troops, manifested on that occasion by the peasantry and people of the south of Ireland, in their readiness and vigour to oppose that hostile and powerful armament. Why did this pleasing state of things then exist, but because the people were not, at least in that quarter, then so goaded and exasperated by the harsh measures instituted in other parts of Ireland, as to supersede their inherent loyalty and love of country. Most necessary, he said, was this disposition of the people at that crisis (had there been occasion to call forth the practical exercise of it), for so ill-prepared were the constituted authorities to defeat or meet the danger, that in some instances it was notorious the cannon-balls were not suited to the calibre of the artillery. It was a proof, that when the people was treated kindly we might always anticipate the same gratifying results. Having in an earlier stage of the Bill expressed his sentiments on the common fairness, the obvious justice and sound policy of conferring upon Ireland (so peculiarly in need of it)
 1064 1065 1066
 Sir James Graham  here observed, that the corporate towns did not ask for it.
 Sir James Graham  said, that nothing would have induced him to rise, had it not been that he was one of those who had voted last night against the further continuance of the debate; for no man could feel more strongly than he did that the
 1078 l. l. l. l. "Tantum religio potuit suadere malorum." 1079 Cheers. 1080 casual 1081 voluntary principle Morpeth, 1082 1083 primâ facie,
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the surprise which he last night felt that the House
 1096 1097 1098 facilis descensus, 1099 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. l. l. 1. 1100 1. 1. 1. 1101 1102 1103 "We humbly assure your Majesty that we will direct our attention to the state of Ireland, which your Majesty has been graciously pleased to bring especially under our notice; and that, convinced of the wisdom of adopting all such measures as may improve the condition of that part of the United Kingdom, we will take into our early consideration the present constitution of the municipal corporations of that country, the laws which regulate the collection of tithes, and the difficult but pressing question of establishing such legal provision for the poor, guarded by prudent regulations and by such precautions against abuse, as our experience and knowledge of the subject may enable us to suggest." 1104 1105 1106 1107 1108 1109 Question. 1110
 Mr. A. Trevor  would not have ventured to trouble the House upon the present occasion, but for certain expressions which had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. The hon. Member had denounced the other House of Parliament, extolled the learned Member for Kilkenny as the great hero of the age, pointed out the awful consequences of the course which (the Opposition) were about to pursue, and crowned the whole by pronouncing no small eulogium on himself. But let the consequences of their present course be what they might, if the Church of England and Ireland were destined to fall they were prepared and willing to fall along with it. They felt it to be their duty to uphold those principles which had been handed down to them from their ancestors, which were not only perfectly consistent with, but the real foster-parent of all sound and rational liberty. He looked upon the present and every other measure introduced by the Ministers as having for its object to convert Ireland from a Protestant to a Popish country. The hon. Member for Middlesex, had himself admitted that this Bill was only an instalment intended to prepare the way for further and more extended innovations. Past experience had proved what they must expect from concession. They had been told a few years ago that, Catholic emancipation granted, Ireland would be content, and nothing further would be demanded, yet what had been the consequence? It was now seen to be only the beginning of the end. If this measure were conceded Ireland would not be satisfied; the more they were disposed to yield, the more would be required of them. A stand must be made somewhere, and he conceived no better stand could be made than around the altars of their holy religion. This Bill would give complete power to one party over the remainder in Ireland, and once let that party acquire supreme power, history warranted him in predicting it would not be so tolerant as the members of the Church of England; they would have tyranny and oppression of the most cruel description, and in its worst and most painful forms. The hon. Member for Middlesex had represented the Established Church as the enemy of improvement—the stumbling-block and bar to the public
 1049
 Viscount Morpeth  rose to trouble the House with a few observations, although he must admit the subject matter of the debate had been worn almost threadbare. The noble Lord opposite had assured the House that it was most unjust towards him, and those with whom he generally acted, to infer that he or they came down to that House with a feeling of opposition to the Roman Catholics as such, or with any desire to repeal the Act of Emancipation. He was sure that the straightforward mind of the noble Lord would indispose him to any such course; but he must say, that the tenor and force of all the arguments and statements of the speakers at all the different meetings and dinings together of noblemen and gentlemen of similar political opinions with the noble Lord, went to create and foster such an impression as this in the minds of the public. The noble Lord and his friends were quite wrong in supposing that it was the wish of Members to invest the Roman Catholics of Ireland, as such, with any exclusive privileges; it was not their wish to do this any more than it was their wish to give these exclusive privileges to the Protestants of Ireland. What they aimed at was, to do away with exclusive privileges altogether, and to give to all classes alike equal privileges. What was the only real argument which had been brought forward in this discussion, more particularly by the noble Member for North Lancashire last night? The noble Lord stated that this was not the time for the measure; that the hour was not auspicious, or he might be inclined not to oppose it. The planetary conjunctions were not favourable. The noble Lord, it seemed, could not consider this Bill, because the Irish Poor-law Bill had not been read a second time, and because the Irish Tithe Bill had not been introduced at all. He
 1074 1075
 Captain Berkeley  hoped the House would give him its attention while he stated shortly the reasons which induced him to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He would not go into the details of the Bill, as he considered a Committee the best place for their consideration; but he would rest his opposition to the measure on the ground that it contemplated the destruction of rights and privileges which had existed for centuries, and which had been confirmed
 1116 termini; terminus terminus, terminus,
 The Earl of Darlington  had never seen an instance of an attempt to bring in a private Bill likely to produce greater injury to property and less benefit to the public. Could it have been shown that the measure would be productive of public advantage, and that compensation would be afforded for the injuries done to property, he should have considered himself bound to support the undertaking; but as no public advantage could arise, and as there was no prospect of compensation, he felt it his duty to oppose the second reading. The promoters of this Bill were a joint-stock company, and the object was
 1117
 Sir George Strickland  thought it a wholesome practice for the House sometimes to reject Bills on the second reading, and not put parties to the expense attending a Committee. The present was one of those Bills which, he thought, the House would act wisely in rejecting; for the river Severn had for centuries formed a common highway for the trade of a large and important portion of the country, and many thousand individuals gained their living by participating in that trade. It was not, therefore, reasonable or just for a
 1118
 Colonel Wood  allowed, that the river Severn was a beautiful highway, but so was the Thames, and the Thames bad been improved by locks, and a toll had been imposed for the purpose of carrying those improvements into execution; nor had the proprietors on the Thames been subjected to any inconvenience from increasing the depth of the water, and he saw no good reason why there should be any fear for the meadows along the Severn, He had a petition in favour of this Bill to present, and from that petition it was plain, that advantage would arise from the contemplated improvements, for the petitioners prayed that the Bill might pass, as they
 1119
 Alderman Wood  opposed the Bill, and explained, that the improvements in the Thames had been effected by a public company, which had borrowed their money at five per cent., and which contemplated the entire abolition of the toll when the debt was paid off. He contended, that great injury would be done to the fisheries on the river, while no compensation was provided for that injury; and he would tell the Irish Members not to be deceived by the prospect of being able to send their oats further up the river than they did at present. He would ask the hon. Member for Brecknockshire (Colonel Wood) whether he was aware that the company contemplated next year, should they succeed with their present Bill, carrying their measures still further, and taking such steps as would have the effect of impeding the traffic along the Welch roads? Did he know, that they proposed cutting across those roads, and was he aware of the impediments which would be thrown in the way of his own tenants, perhaps, by the passage through the bridges of a number of vessels ascending or descending at the same time? He would vote against the second reading.
 Mr. Richards  said, the objection that this was not a public company was applicable to all parties that came before that House on petitions for private Bills. He thought the present company, as they took upon themselves a considerable risk for the public good, were entitled to the thanks of the worthy Alderman who had last spoken. He quite agreed with the observation, that if it could not be shown that the undertaking was for the public good, it ought not to receive the sanction of the House; but the undertaking would be productive of great public advantage, and he therefore trusted the House would allow the parties to proceed with the Bill. It had been said, that this was a plan by which the beautiful meadows along the Severn would be destroyed; but what was the fact? Why, the permanent water-line was two feet six inches below the level of those meadows; yet they were told, that the pounding up of the river was to destroy the beautiful meadows along its course. They would, however, be as dry as at present. Again, the object of the company was not to impede the navigation of the river, but to render its navigation practicable at all times. They proposed to give the public facilities for their trade during
 1120 d.
 Mr. Robinson  maintained, that there were no grounds for calling this measure a monopoly; for the company were willing to undertake a great improvement at their own cost, and that undertaking could not fail of being beneficial to the public. The Severn was only open for navigation for eight months, and they proposed for one farthing per ton to open the navigation for the whole year. Let the House, then, consider what would be the consequence to trade of a dry season, and then let them say whether the contemplated undertaking would not prove highly beneficial to the public. The object was to open up a communication into the heart of a populous manufacturing country; and the expense at which that important object was to be attained certainly could not be complained of with justice. It had been objected that the clause providing compensation to the landowners and others whose property might be injured by the undertaking was not sufficient; but, in the name of the company, he would pledge himself that a clause should be inserted affording the most ample guarantee. He therefore hoped the House would allow the second reading to take place.
 Mr. Robert Clive  opposed the second reading on account of the injury the measure would inflict on the traders of Salop; and contended, that although it was true that the river was not navigable for the whole year, yet by occasional floods the traders were enabled to carry on their traffic.
 Mr. Hope  made a few observations in opposition to the second reading, but the cries of "Divide" were so loud that we are unable to give their import.
 Sir John Wrottesley  supported the second reading, and observed, that the opposition came from two points—namely,
 1121
 Captain Winnington  said, if he thought any inconvenience or danger would accrue to the landowners from the measure, he should be as ready to oppose it as he was now to advocate it. But this supposition had been completely negatived by the opinions of Mr. Cubitt, Mr. Walker, and several other experienced engineers. He hoped the hon. and gallant Member for Glocester would consent to withdraw his amendment and permit the Bill to be read a second time.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  expressed a hope that a little attention would be paid to the opponents of so monstrous a measure as that now under consideration—a measure which went to turn a river into a sea. A measure similar to the present had been brought forward in that House fifty years ago; it was rejected, however, as he trusted the present Bill would be.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had only one single sentence to offer, which was, that the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down was conclusive in favour of the second reading of this Bill. If the measure would convert this river into a great sea, and thus make a new seaport in the very centre of the country, it might be a monstrous measure, but it would be one of great advantage to the commerce of the country.
 Mr. Alston  complained that the hon. Member for Middlesex had put his (Mr. Alston's) name to the Bill, without any reference to him for his consent.
 Mr. Hume  begged to explain. The hon. Member had presented a petition from the county of Hertford in favour of the Bill, and he was given to understand that the hon. Member was a warm supporter of the Bill. So he had been informed by a Friend of the hon. Member; and the hon. Member not having been in the House when he moved for leave to bring in the Bill, he had named the hon. Member as one of those who was to bring it on. When the hon. Member presented the petition from the county of Hertford, he understood the hon. Member would be a strong supporter of the principle of the Bill; indeed the hon. Member had told him so himself.
 Mr. Alston : It was quite true, that he was favourable to the principle of the Bill; but if the hon. Member had shown him the Bill, if he had seen the bulk of it, and the machinery requisite for working out its details, he should at once have declined to give it his support. The petition he had had the honour of presenting from the county of Hertford, was for the establishment of a better principle with regard to County-rates, and in so far he coincided in the principle of the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for Middlesex. He considered that the County-rates had hitherto been administered in a very culpable manner, and inasmuch, as representation ought to accompany taxation, he considered that the payers of the rates ought to possess some knowledge of their appropriation. This object might be effected by a county council or board, but he thought the present Bill so complicated, and calculated so much to increase the expenses of counties, that he was quite sure his constituents would not pray for its introduction into their county. In fact, he was sure that it would increase the expense ten times told, and would be the occasion of adding to the rates more than the Poor-law Act had diminished them. If this Bill should pass, of necessity the counties must be divided into wards; there must be a
 1127
 Mr. Gally Knight  said, that the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for Middlesex, and of which he had now moved the second reading, went to cast a reflection upon the whole of the magistracy of England, and he regretted that the hon. Member had not confined its operation to the county of Middlesex, which he represented. He was free to confess, that the present state of things in the county of Middlesex could not be defended. The magistrates of that county had allowed large sums of money to be carried off by defaulters, and before the county had recovered from the difficulties thrown upon it from that cause, the magistrates had allowed other irregularities to creep in. He was of opinion that in Middlesex some preventive check was requisite; but what was requisite for a metropolitan county, formed no test of what was necessary and requisite for the rest of the counties of England.
 Colonel Wood  regretted that the hon. Member should have dragged the county of Middlesex and its affairs into this discussion. If the management of its pecuniary affairs were investigated by a Select Committee, he was confident that a report would be made acquitting the county of the charge brought against it. With respect to the general question before the House, he decidedly objected to this Bill. The board which it proposed to constitute would not only supersede the judicial au-
 1128 "Hear," and a laugh. 1129
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, that there was a great deal of mismanagement under the present system, and that was a sufficient motive to induce him to vote for the second reading of the Bill. The hon. Member for Brecon must settle, the details of the plan he proposed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he rather thought, that whoever might be the individual filling that office, would not support the hon. Member in throwing the whole of these charges upon the Consolidated Fund. He did not approve of the mode of forming the county courts proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex, but he cordially concurred in the principle of the measure. He was certainly opposed to the principle of having annual elections of the persons to form these county courts; and he should not recommend to the House to agree to the second reading of the Bill, if he were not prepared with a substitute, which he was convinced would act with great simplicity, and be most effective—namely, constituting the courts of a delegate from each union in the county. If he found that there was no other resource against the evils which at present prevailed, he should vote for the second reading of the present Bill, in the hope that, although the hon. Member for Middlesex was rather pertinacious, he would be prevailed upon to alter its details in the Committee.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  regretted that the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department was absent when so important a measure as this was to be discussed. The Bill was an indictment against the magistrates of England, and he was surprised to hear the hon. Baronet who spoke last, say he would support it. There was no complaint against the County-rates in Kent. The hon. Baronet was much mistaken if he supposed the board of guardians would add to their other labours that of managing the County-rates. The magistrates of the county which he had the honour to represent were most anxious to reduce the rates as much as possible, and they had succeeded. He had no hesitation in saying, that the effect of this Bill would be to add 3,000 l. l. 1130
 Lord Ebrington , though he did not agree with the details of the Bill, quite approved of the principl—that the people should elect those who imposed the rates. An infusion of rate-payers in the vestries had been productive of the best consequences, having produced an amendment in the distribution of the funds, and, in some instances, decreased the burthen one-half. He objected to the machinery by which it was proposed to carry the principle into effect, and he agreed with the hon. Member that it would be better to name a Committee to inquire into the subject.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  thought that every provision of the Bill would lead to difficulty and expense, and, though not unfriendly to the Bill, he could not support it in its present shape.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, though some hon. Gentlemen were pleased to call the principle of the present Bill a new one, it was, in fact, in operation both in that House and in all the boroughs throughout the kingdom. The principle was, that taxation and representation should go together, and that those who expended taxes should be responsible to those who paid them. He considered the unpaid magistracy a nuisance to the country. [ Cries of "No," and "Order." 1131
 Mr. Edward Buller  declared, that if any thing had been wanting to induce him to vote against the second reading of the Bill before the House, it would have been supplied by the speech which he had just heard. He protested against this Bill, or any Bill which, under pretence of regulating County-rates, would abolish the present system of county magistrates. If the Bill were to become law, it would be impossible for the magistrates to discharge their duties, and therefore he should oppose it. He had always held that justice should emanate from the Crown, and therefore he should vote against the measure.
 Mr. Byng  objected to every clause of the Bill, and therefore thought it would be more candid and explicit in him to vote at once against the second reading. He did not think that the magistracy of England deserved to be disgraced by such a Bill. He was satisfied with the magistrates of his own county, who, in conformity with the obligation imposed on them by an Act of Parliament passed fifteen years ago, published their accounts every three months, and sent them to the overseers of each parish. It was true that there had been an increase of the rates in the county, but be could account for every shilling. The increase was owing to the expenses of building the House of Correction, the Lunatic Asylum, and the Westminster Bridewell. The money for the erection of the first had been raised by a tontine, which would soon become extinct; the sums expended on the second had been raised in the ordinary way, and not only was the interest paid, but one-fourteenth of the capital paid off every year. Seven years had elapsed since the money had been borrowed, and in seven years more the Lunatic Asylum would have been paid for by the county. Of this asylum, too, he must remark, that the system adopted by the magistrates administering its affairs,
 1132
 Mr. William Miles  hoped that hon. Gentlemen who had found fault with the details of the Bill, would not vote for the principle of it. He left it to the House to pronounce whether the unpaid magistracy of England deserved the reprobation bestowed on them by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. The principle of the Bill, as it appeared to him, had not been sufficiently explained. It should be considered whether any alteration at all was necessary, and, if any, what that alteration should be. It should be asked whether a radical reform was required? and whether, if it were wanted and this Bill adopted, there would be a more effectual control over, and a more certain diminution of, the expenses, combined with an equally secure guardianship of person and property? If the system did really give cause of complaint, it was strange that, notwithstanding the exertions of the hon. Member for Middlesex to promulgate his Bill both last year and this, the petitions on the subject were so few. The hon. Member had introduced his measure with four petitions from Marylebone. As a county Member, he must protest against a Member for Middlesex, backed by the vestry of Marylebone, dictating to the counties of England. If he had not seen in all magistrates and bodies of magistrates, a disposition to redress grievances—if he had not observed that every quarter session was marked by some magistrate rising to propose something beneficial, he might perhaps think and act otherwise. In his own county there was either a most complete apathy on the subject of expenditure, or there was a perfect satisfaction with the economy of the magistrates. The working of the system of Finance Committees had been most excellent. He could not see why the principle of the Municipal Reform Bill should be introduced into counties, or why this uncalled-for experiment should be, forced on the rural population. That population looked on the magistrates
 1133
 Mr. Lennard , in supporting the Bill, begged it to be understood that he cast no reflections on the magistrates of England. But he supported it for the sake of the principle involved in it namely, that where there was taxation there ought to be representation; that there ought to be popular control in every case where public money was expended. The evil of the present system was, that any number of gentlemen arbitrarily nominated by the Lord-Lieutenants of counties, had the power of raising money and spending it as they thought fit. This was a state of things which he thought most unsatisfactory and unconstitutional; and this power in the magistrates, whether it had been abused or not, was so objectionable in principle, that he thought it ought no longer to be retained. It had been said, that the object of the Bill was to introduce into counties the practice which now prevailed in boroughs. He believed that practice to be a very beneficial one, and he should be glad to see it extended to the whole country, since nothing was, in his opinion, more desirable than to accustom the people to the management of their own affairs, and to self-government. He would not say, that the large power now enjoyed by magistrates was an usurpation, for it had been conferred upon them by successive Acts of Parliament; but he was sure, if we had
 1136 de novo,
 Mr. Tulk  said, that so far as his observation went, no body of men could have acted more honourably than the magistrates of this country. He must say, that he had remarked, that gentlemen of all parties were eager to save and economise the funds which in their capacity as magistrates they had to administer. But when he said this, at the same time he must observe, that it was a matter of importance whether that control should be exercised subject to the superintendence of the ratepayers or not. The principle of the Bill, in his opinion, was so good, that he should vote for the second reading of it. He wished to see the election principle carried out as far as possible throughout the country. That principle had been carried into operation in the corporations of England and Scotland. Why, then, not apply it to counties? Till that was done, the rate-payers would not be satisfied that their interests would be attended to as they ought to be. He thought the hon. Member for Middlesex had not been fairly treated in this debate. Some hon. Gentlemen had either mistaken, or chose to mistake the principle of the Bill. They argued as if nomination for the choice of the Crown and election were one and the same thing. He wished, however, that his hon. Friend had not made this Bill so complicated, and if he would simplify the details, he was quite sure that he would carry it.
 Mr. James  had no intention of saying anything in disparagement of the magistrates of England; he had been a magistrate of the county of Cumberland for twenty years, and he was not going to cast any discredit on his own order. He was quite sure that if the magisterial office were taken out of the hands of the present magistracy, the rate-payers would be the worse for it, because, if the magistrates were like the magistrates of Cumberland and Middlesex, they had always done their duty, But he believed that if the election
 1137
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that after the full discussion which this measure had received, he should not trespass upon the patience of the House with many observations. He could not help wishing, however, that this discussion had taken place in the presence of some Member of the Government; at least, of that Member of it in whose hands was placed the control and superintendence of the magistracy of the country, in order that it might be made known that the measure either had the support or the opposition of Ministers. He was aware, from disclosures which had been made on the preceding evening, that Wednesdays were dedicated by the Government to avocations not altogether disconnected with business, but yet partaking of a festive character. He did not wish to interfere with the relaxation of those, who, in the present situation of affairs, conducted the business of the country, and he had, therefore, waited till the present hour of the evening, in the hope that the noble Lord would make his appearance in the House, and, with increased alacrity and refreshed and reanimated by the grateful relaxation in which he had indulged, would be prepared to state the opinion of the Government on the measure. This was no ordinary measure, to be left to any Member to deal with as his fancy or caprice might dictate. The Government themselves had not so considered it. They appointed a commission to inquire into the subject two years ago, and they had transmitted the report of that commission and the present Bill to the different quarter sessions of each county, and required an answer to be sent to Lord John Russell at the Home, office, acknowledging the receipt of both, He held in his hand a copy thus addressed.
 Mr. Hume  begged to say, that it was quite true that he did request the Home, office to send copies of this Bill and of the report of the commission to the different quarter sessions; but he received an answer from the clerks of the office, that the Government did not choose to interfere in the matter, and he sent the copies himself as a private individual.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that with respect to one copy, then, the hon. Member had been too late in arresting the progress of his first arrangements; however, after the statement of the hon. Member, he would not press that point farther. He entirely concurred with the hon. Member for Hampshire, who said, that he did not see why he should be called upon to explain the reasons for the Report to which the Committee appointed by the Government had agreed. The Government ought to be called upon to state what were their views and intentions on this subject, and to enlighten the House by an exposition of the bearings of the measure. He therefore did expect, that if the noble Lord himself (Lord J. Russell) was prevented from attending, some Member of Government would have been in the House prepared to state the intentions of Government with respect to this measure. He saw the Under-Secretary for the Home Department present, and, therefore, there was yet hope. He indulged the confidence that the House might know from him before the debate closed, what were the views and opinions of the Government upon this measure. For his own part, he could not concur in the motion for the second reading of this Bill, because every Member who had approved of the principle, had stated his disapprobation of all its details. He could not help thinking that the hon. Gentlemen who approved of the principle, but disagreed with every one of the details of the Bill, would act more wisely and consistently by voting against the Bill, and leaving to the Government to bring in such a measure as they thought necessary. The hon. Member for Middlesex said, that the present was not a judicial question, but merely a financial one. Why, the hon. Gentleman could not have read his own Bill. By the provisions of this Bill, the sheriffs of the county were subjected to all the responsibility of the custody of the prisoners within the county, but the council were to determine who should be the gaolers, and what should be the regulations of the county prisons. The judges were to try the prisoners, but the constables were to be appointed by the council; when they were acting wrong, they were to be punished by the council; and if they did right, by the council they were to be rewarded. He would not go into the other provisions of this Bill. There were at least twenty other instances in which similar inconsistencies existed, He said, there-
 1139 l. 1140
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that nothing could be further from his imagination when he entered the House, than the supposition that he would be called on to address them on the present occasion, nor should he have deemed it necessary to do so, if the absence of his noble Friend had not been made the subject of observation. The right hon. Gentleman had stated, that the Home-office had caused copies of this Bill to be sent to the quarter sessions of the different counties; but all he could say was, that the right hon. Gentleman's assertion was the first intimation he had received of such a fact. He did not, however, believe that the Home-office had used any influence one way or the other on the subject; and, as the Government regarded the matter as a mere
 1141
 Lord Stanley  would not enter into the discussion of the merits of the Bill, although he had a strong opinion with regard to it, but he was satisfied, that one way or the other, the decision of the House upon that subject was one of the greatest importance, involving as it did the whole management of the civil economy of the country, and of its whole criminal and civil jurisdiction. This was the first time that it had been stated in the House of Commons, that it was either expedient or decent for his Majesty's Ministers calling themselves the Government of the country, to abstain from expressing, in their places as Ministers of the Crown, the views they took of the system pursued with regard to the magistracy of England. If any hon. Gentleman considered this measure unimportant he was quite at liberty to differ in opinion from him; but if this Bill was important, they would not deny that the Home Secretary ought to have been in his
 1142 1143
 Major Beauclerk  hardly considered it decent to bring a charge against any individuals without knowing what reasons there were for their absence. The stronger the language used, the more cautious ought hon. or noble Members to be how they attacked parties without knowing why they were absent. He did not stand there to say anything against the magistracy; that body was composed of men of the most noble and honourable character. He happened to be one himself—one of the magistracy, not one claiming a noble character. Those hon. Gentlemen who understood the meaning of plain English, would bear him out in that assertion. He had heard with great surprise the statement of the hon. Member opposite, that the magistracy, as now appointed, gave satisfaction to the people of England. To the aristocracy they might give satisfaction; but the middling classes of the people by no means felt that satisfaction in the manner of their appointment, selection,
 1144
 Mr. Ewart  rose amidst cries of "Oh, oh!" and "Question!" The hon. Gentlemen opposite might continue their cries as long as they pleased, but he was determined that they should not put him down by their clamour. As the hon. Gentlemen opposite were beginning to behave with that decorum which, was necessary to qualify them for their duties as representatives of the people, he would proceed to express his opinions briefly upon this Bill. He had many times had occasion to acknowledge the kindness and courtesy of the noble Lord opposite, with whom he had once had ties which he could not easily forget, He was paying a compliment,
 1145
 Mr. Brotherton  hoped that the House would listen to him on the present occasion with the same pleasure with which they generally listened to him when he rose to speak last. He should not have risen had he not been anxious to correct a statement made by a right hon. Gentleman opposite,
 1146 l. l. l.
 Mr. Benett  declared his intention to oppose this Bill. He defended the magistracy from the attacks which had been made upon them that evening, and called the attention of the House to the fact that not one single proof had been adduced in justification of those attacks. He was certain that the people were quite content with their present control over the magistracy.
 Mr. Villiers  was decidedly in favour of this Bill, which instead of being an innovation, was only a restoration of the ancient practice of the constitution. He denied that the people had at present any control over the county magistracy. The only check on the county magistracy was derived from the publicity of their proceedings; for everybody knew that the check upon them in the courts of law were merely nominal. He asserted, upon the authority of his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire, who had the experience of fifteen years as chairman at the quarter sessions for that county, that the county magistracy were unfit for the administration of justice.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  intimated to the hon. Member that he had never made any such declaration.
 Mr. Villiers  was under the impression, that on a former occasion his hon. Friend had made such a declaration. In a conversation which occurred during the present Session on this Bill his hon. Friend stated that in his opinion he did not go far enough and that something more was wanted, for whenever he (Sir E. Wilmot) wanted the county magistrates to assist him in a case of criminal justice, they regularly shrunk from the responsibility.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot : The hon. Member is making a personal attack on me, and therefore I beg leave to say that I never—
 The Speaker  called the hon. Baronet to order, and informed him that the time
 1147
 Mr. Villiers  said, that he had not the slightest intention of making any personal attack on his hon. friend the Member for North Warwickshire. But it had been said that evening, that the conduct of the magistracy gave general satisfaction; and, as he differed from that statement, he thought that he had a right not only to mention his own experience on the point, but also to quote, as a supporter of the Bill, the authority of his hon. friend the Member for North Warwickshire, who had unquestionably said, that whenever a question arose upon the administration of the county finances, then a crowd of magistrates were always present to discuss it; but that he could get none of them to assist him whenever an important case connected with the criminal justice of the country came before him. He contended, that it was coeval with the constitution that taxation and representation should go together; and he was surprised to find the noble Member of North Lancashire opposing that principle, which was incorporated in this Bill, merely because he thought that the passing of it might be construed into a slur upon the magistracy.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  felt himself called upon to explain the observations which had fallen from him on a former occasion, in consequence of what had just been said by his hon. Friend. He certainly had made use of the expression that this Bill, if it were to be made law, would not go far enough. He had said that this Bill, if pressed to its full extent, would destroy the judicial power of the magistracy. He repeated, the same opinion now. If the Bill passed, no magistrate could act in a judicial capacity. An hon. Member had said in the course of the evening, that he would resign his commission of the peace if the Bill passed. He (Sir E. Wilmot) said so too. As to the other part of the observations which he was represented to have made—he meant that part of them which accused the magistrates of not being present at criminal trials—he had only to
 1148
 Lord Worsley  said, he was not at all surprised that this Bill had been introduced, as he had heard very general complaints during the last four years that the County-rates had not been properly applied.
 Mr. Edward J. Stanley  said, that he should vote for the second reading of this Bill, as he concurred in the principle of it, that there should be some species of representation of the rate-payers in the body which imposed no small amount of taxation upon them. He was surprised at the opposition which the noble Member for North Lancashire had given to this measure, for that noble Lord, in the Bill which be had introduced for the regulation of grand juries in Ireland—bodies which in that country stood in the place, and executed several of the functions, of the county magistracy of England—had admitted the principle of having a number of assessors chosen by the rate-payers associated with the grand juries in levying the county-cess. He therefore called upon the noble Lord to admit in England the principle which he had sanctioned in Ireland—a country to which he was sorry to say that the noble Lord was reluctant to give any species of popular representation. He thought, that the people of England might claim from that noble Lord, as a right, to have granted to them that species of representation which, with all his prejudices against Ireland, he had felt himself unable to withhold from the people of Ireland. He maintained that the people of England had a right to have a vote in the election of the body which imposed taxation upon them. Indeed, the magistrates of England were the only irresponsible body which had power to impose and levy taxes upon the country. He was simply stating his reasons for voting for the principle of the Bill. He would not trouble the House further—he would give his vote for the principle of giving the people some representation in
 1149
 Mr. Hume  said, it was singular that so many hon. Members should admit the principle of his Bill, and object to the details, without, in any one instance, specifying which of the details they objected to. He was rather surprised at his hon. Friend, the Member for Cheshire, being in any degree astonished at the inconsistency of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, in conceding this principle to Ireland when he refused it to England. The conduct of that noble Lord was one altogether of inconsistency. While the noble Lord sat on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, and, as it were, spell-bound by liberal opinions, he had given utterance to opinions as liberal as the most liberal could desire; but when he changed his seat to the other side of the House, his sentiments were as Tory-like as the bitterest Tory could wish. Hon. Members had accused him of drawing an indictment against the magistrates of the country, but the gentlemen who were considered to be thus accused did not act as gentlemen usually did by sitting as judges in their own cause. If they considered themselves accused, he called upon them to leave the House. It was altogether unfair that they should judge in a cause in which they were concerned. All he wanted was this—let the magistrates riot as much as they pleased in their judicial power, but let them not put their hands into the pockets of the people. Alter the hon. Members who had spoken against the Bill, and had therefore misstated its objects and intentions, let them allow it to go to a Committee, and he should be prepared to defend every one of its clauses, and to show that its machinery would not involve one-fourth of the expense now incurred in any one county. In the face of the Commons of England, he would say to the magistrates, "You who think yourselves arraigned — you who
 1150
 Mr. A. Trevor : After the unjust course which the House had taken, in not allowing the hon. Member for Coventry to proceed with his measure, should divide the House on the question of adjournment.
 The Lord Advocate  observed, that he was not aware that it was intended to oppose this Bill, or that there would be any discussion upon it in Committee; and the rule the House had acted upon was, that where no opposition was intimated, the business of the House was allowed to proceed.
 Sir William Rae  asked, and he would have put the question to the Secretary of State had he been present, whether the vacancy occasioned by the death of Mr. Rolland, one of the principal clerks of Session, had been filled up.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the vacancy had been filled up, and that in the commission to the person appointed, there was a Clause that he should perform any additional duties that might be imposed upon him by the Legislature or Secretary of State. That this enabled him, in a subsequent Clause, which he would move, to annex additional duties to the junior principal clerk, which he could not do in the case of those clerks who had been selected, and received their appointments without reference to any such additional duties.
 Sir George Clerk  asked, whether one of the jury clerks was not fit to perform the duties of the office; and as they were to be reduced by the Bill, a saving would have arisen from that appointment, and the reductions proposed would sooner take effect.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  said, that as hon. Members were going into the discussion of the measure, he would move that the Chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  said, that he had before requested his hon. Friend not to
 1153 Edinburgh Review,
 The Lord Advocate  stated, in reply to the observations, that the most serious objections which had been urged by the Judges and the heads of the Committee to whom the working of the Bill must be intrusted, was, that it had reduced the establishment of clerks a great deal too low. Two principal and two deputy clerks were reduced, and eventually, on the death of the jury clerks, their situations were not to be filled up. The jury clerks had, therefore, been retained, that no inconvenience might be felt from the immediate operation of the Bill, so far as regarded jury cases, and he proceeded on the ground that, before the country would be deprived of the services of those persons who had been selected with a view to jury trial, the other clerks would have an opportunity of making themselves fully acquainted with those duties. The eighth Clause of the Bill provided for that case. He had carried reduction, as far as was safe or practicable in this and every other provision of the Bill, consistently with due regard to the convenience and advantage of the suitors and the administration of justice, and he could not have carried it so far as he had done, against the remonstrances he had received from the person entitled to the greatest deference, if he had not retained all the jury clerks for the performance of their duties. He did anticipate, that from the business being simplified and fully understood, the provisions of the Bill might take effect in the event of any of the present jury clerks being hereafter, by death or otherwise, unable to execute their duties; but, in the meantime, he considered it important for the success of this measure of retrenchment, that the jury clerks should continue to perform the duties in which they were trained, and that the prospective reductions should be provided for.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that his objection was, that in a Bill which went to consolidate offices, this new appointment should have been made instead of making a selection from the officers who had held
 1154
 The Speaker  said, the usual course was to print such clauses in italics, but that was not the case in the present instance, and the objection of the hon. Member must therefore prevail.
 Mr. Buckingham  rose to move the second reading of the Merchant Shipping Bill, which he said he had founded upon the Report of a Committee that had been appointed to inquire into the number of wrecks of vessels in the merchant service, and what
 1124
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. The eighteenth clause of the Bill imposed a tax. He submitted, therefore, that the Bill, according to the standing orders, should have been preceded by a resolution in a Committee of the whole House.
 Sir E. Codrington  seconded the motion.
 Major Beauclerk  presented a petition from certain landholders of Surrey against this line.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  presented a petition from the chairman and others of the provisional Committee of a company for constructing a railway from London to Brighton, complaining that the sub-committee on standing orders had been griev-
 1159
 Mr. Curteis  rose to call the attention of the House to a petition which he presented two or three days ago, and which had been printed, with the votes. Its prayer was, that the House would be pleased to institute an inquiry, by means of a Select Committee, into the evidence given before the sub-committee relative to Stephenson's line. Mr. Mills had stated to him that morning, that there were, to his knowledge, no less than thirty-seven material alterations between the plans left with the clerk of the peace for the county of Surrey, and those deposited in the private bill office; and, moreover, he had stated that the petitioners, whose petition, the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), had just presented, were prepared to prove 131 variations between these plans. Under these circumstances, he did say, that this was a fit case for inquiry; and he begged to state, that in the course he was taking, he was by no means actuated by a desire to stop the progress of Stephenson's line before the Committee. He was wholly uninterested in these railways; and, as he had said the other day, he brought this matter forward distinctly as a breach of the privileges of the House, for he did deem it a very grave Parliamentary offence for agents to come before Committees of that House, and state what was untrue. If the allegations contained in these petitions were proved, he should not think that the parties received more than their due, if they were confined to Newgate for the rest of the Session. This, it might be well to observe, was by no means the same case to which he had called the attention of the House on a former day—it was a case where, as he fully believed, false evidence had been given before the sub-committee; and having the strongest assurances from an engineer, that it was practicable to prove 131 instances of this false evidence, he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the subject. So little was he interested in, or acquainted with, the case, that he did not even know who were the parties concerned, and he only wished for a Committee to inquire into the case, which could be fully sifted in an hour or two. He moved that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the matters
 1160
 Sir G. Strickland  thought, that if the allegations of the petitions were true, it would be quite impossible for the House to pass them over in silence, because he had a very strong feeling of the great injury which parties occasionally suffered from the loose mode of conducting business in the Committees of that House. The conduct attributed to these agents would, before a court of justice, take the name of perjury; but, as the House did not examine on oath, it only amounted to a breach of veracity. He thought the House, nevertheless, were bound to institute an inquiry, and he should vote for the motion.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  opposed it. He could not but think that the object of this proceeding was to get quit of Stephenson's line, and so give the preference to Mr. Rennie's.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, that with respect to the objection that this motion was intended to raise obstacles in the way of Stephenson's line, he, for one, saw no reason why, if these allegations were proved to be true, the further progress of that line should not be obstructed. In that case, who would deny that the Bill ought to be thrown out? Not one individual connected with Stephenson's line, not a single hon. Member, had come forward to contradict these allegations. If (as had been objected) Mr. Mills had not himself been damnified or injured by the conduct of the agents, a very great injury had been done to those parties whose petition he had that day presented—the chairman and other members of the provisional Committee of a company for constructing a railway from London to Brighton. He thought the House, consistently with what was due to their own dignity and character, could not refuse their assent to the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Green  begged to suggest, that the only point for the consideration of the Committee was, not the whole subject matter of the petition (for it was obvious, that they ought not to go into a great deal relating to Mills's line, and to his mistakes respecting the standing orders, which formed part of the statements of the petition), but whether any parties had deceived the sub-Committee by their statements before it, and who those parties were.
 Lord George Lennox  would answer the
 1161
 The Speaker : This is a case in which the House ought to be very cautious. The inquiry ought to be limited strictly to investigating whether false evidence has been given. It is to be considered that even this inquiry in this stage of the proceedings on the Bill, may involve the House in difficulty. Will the House allow a Bill to proceed, if it shall be found that false evidence has been given? Will it stop the Bill when the parties complaining, not only might, but ought to have brought the question forward, at a time when the matter could have been investigated, without involving the House in those difficulties? The House, therefore, ought to have a very strong case made out before it consents to enter upon such an inquiry, and which must be productive of so much difficulty and embarrassment.
 Mr. Curteis  having (by leave) withdrawn the first motion, begged to move, that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire whether any false evidence had been given before the Sub-Committee, with reference to the observance of the standing orders, by the agents of Stephenson's line.
 Lord Stanley  said, with respect to any arrangements that promoters of rival lines of railways might enter into, to refrain from pressing objections, on the score of observance of the standing orders, he thought they were the last things which that House ought to sanction, or even to allow. The question was one of a gross breach of privilege; and the House was called upon to inquire whether or not the parties now actually before the Committee had obtained certain advantages by means of false statements made before the Sub-Committee respecting the stand-
 1162
 Mr. T. Duncombe  observed, that the discussion had originally stood for Tuesday, and had been postponed to meet the' wishes of the promoters of Stephenson's line.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that the reasons adduced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for keeping up the tax, were precisely those which weighed with him for its abolition. He hoped it would be no longer permitted to press on the newspaper trade. While it continued, the press could not be said to be unshackled. Every man who paid a penny postage on newspapers in the metropolis since October fast, was defrauded of that amount. It was the clear intention of the Act of last Session that all stamped newspapers should go postage free in town as well as in country, though the twopenny post was not specified in it. If the principle were, not opposed in town, it would be extended, to the country in a very short time.
 Mr. Arthur Trevar  was of opinion that if any individual, or any body of indivi-
 1175
 Mr. Richards  was somewhat surprised, that the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty should call on the House to disbelieve these gentlemen because they had been accused, and to believe him who was their accuser. The Board of Admiralty had been designated a tribunal, when, in fact, it was no tribunal at all. He did not think that the Admiralty ought to shelter itself under the prerogative; if the facts were as the hon. Secretary stated, no objection ought to be made to the inquiry; he therefore should support the motion.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that some investigation was necessary. The practice of striking officers off the Half Pay List without trial was not right, how honourable soever the persons to whom the power of doing so might be committed. The hon. Secretary had mentioned the case in which the Admiralty had, in consequence of subsequent inquiry, redressed the grievance committed by its having relied on the sworn testimony of one brother against another; he (Mr. O'Connell) thought, that it would be better to investigate previously to dismissal. The House would observe, that Mr. Millner had declared the power of attorney produced by Alexander to be a forgery, and he could not but think it suspicious that during the whole of Mr. Millner's absence on service, that power of attorney had remained unused. The House, in voting for the inquiry, would not pass a vote of censure on the Admiralty, but simply vote for the production of papers; he, therefore, should support the motion.
 Captain Gordon  said, that if he understood the question right, the object of the motion was, to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown; and, in his opinion,
 1194
 Colonel Thompson  thought, that without questioning the decisions of the naval or military departments, motions such as this, ought to be acceded to as a means of satisfying the public. The course adopted by these departments would not be
 1193
 Captain Gordon  considered that the plan was exceedingly good, and one which it was most desirable should be carried into immediate effect. He wished to know whether it was the intention of his hon. Friend, in cases where nothing could be established against particular prisons, that the parties maintaining those gaols should be put to additional expense.
 Sir William Mae  inquired whether or not it Was intended that the same responsibility as formerly should attach to magistrates in cases where debtors effected their escape.
 Mr. Maule  said, it was expected that in future a more respectable class of men would fill the office of gaoler than had done so formerly; they would, therefore, be enabled to find sufficient security, and the magistrates would then be relieved from further responsibility.
 Mr. Fox Maule  replied, that if the proposed measure became an Act of Parliament, the prisons of Scotland would be placed under one board possessing power to levy a general assessment over the whole Country, by which means counties and boroughs would be relieved from any future expense.
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, the subject which I feel it to be my duty to bring under the notice of the House, is one of so much importance, that I trust I may be permitted to trespass for a short time on its attention, while I detail the amendments which I propose to make in the management of the prisons and system of prison discipline in Scotland. All who have turned their attention to this interesting subject, concur in opinion that without uniformity of system no great improvement can be obtained, and, however in some cases centralization of management may be undesirable, in respect to prisons there seems to be but one opinion as to the propriety of its adoption. Fully subscribing to this doctrine, which I find strongly recommended in Mr. Hill's two Reports on the prisons of Scotland, I have endeavoured to frame a measure which shall carry it into effect, and rescue that country from the stain which the present system casts upon it. Did my time permit, I might enter into a detail of the present evils, which, perhaps, would be the most formal course previous to suggesting the remedies; but these are so well known to every one connected with that country that I feel, as far as they are concerned, it would be an unnecessary consumption of time, and will content myself by referring the House and the
 1202 l. l. 1203 1204 l. 1205
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the Bill was a Government measure, and that Government would do all in its power to carry it through Parliament.
 Lord John Russell  was unwilling to oppose this motion, although he could not see its utility. He understood that these documents were considered as public documents in the library at Lambeth, and that any person who wished to see them might do so for a small fee, He doubted, however, whether it was worth while to go to the expense of either copying or printing them.
 Lord John Russell  concurred with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, that some Parliamentary ground should be laid for demanding these documents as public property from the Archbishop of Canterbury.
 Mr. Hawes  said, it would be highly advantageous, if, in establishing regulations of the kind proposed, arrangements should be made for rendering the gaols of Scotland self-supporting establishments.
 Mr. Charles Buller  as a  quasi Devoniensis 1180 1181 1182 1183
 Mr. Cumming Bruce  considered, that it would be a dangerous proceeding to transfer the functions of the Admiralty to a Committee of the House of Commons, and he should therefore oppose the motion.
 Major Cumming Bruce  was sure the House would agree with him, that no apology was necessary for his hon. Friend for occupying their time with the able statement with which he had introduced the present important measure; a measure which he trusted would soon remove the disgrace which at present attached to Scotland from the state of her prisons. He liked not only the general principles of the measure, but the details also, and he anticipated the happiest results from its operation. Though not a friend to the principle of centralization in all matters, he was convinced, and he was sure that others would agree with him, that this was a case in which centralization was necessary, seeing that this was a matter not of petty local interests, but of national concern, and that it was only by putting the prisons of Scotland under one general direction, that any efficient and permanent reform could be obtained. If he had had any doubt of the necessity of this and the other leading principles of the Bill, those doubts have been removed by the perusal of the reports of the inspector of prisons for Scotland. In all the principles and views brought forward by Mr. Hill in those reports he heartily concurred, and he thought that the more the present measure was made in accordance with those views and principles, the more good it would contain. The advantage was to be general, and therefore it was quite reasonable that there should be a general assessment, and that all should contribute according to their ability, whether they happened to be inhabitants of burghs or not. The burghs had already borne their peculiar burdens too long, and he was glad to find that this measure would afford them relief.
 Mr. Charles Wood  opposed the motion. In all the cases mentioned the parties had an opportunity of stating their case before a fair tribunal. That House was not the place to adjudicate them in. He believed it was not denied that the King, by his prerogative, might dismiss officers of the navy and the army. There was this difference between the two branches of the service, that the King delegated the whole of his prerogative to the High Court of Admiralty, but did not do so as regarded the army. The House knew that there was a class of offences qualified under the designation of ungentlemanly conduct. When charges of this nature were made against officers on full pay they were tried by Court-martial. It was not the case as regarded officers on half-pay. The Admiralty had the power to dismiss officers on half-pay. He would
 1188 1189
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, he had the necessary papers with him upon the point of the half pay alluded to, but he was sure Mr. Millner was, at the time, on half pay, and, that being afterwards appointed to the Diadem, on full pay, and wishing to raise a little money to fit himself out, he applied to Alexander for a loan, to whom he gave an order to draw his half pay. Alexander sent the order to his agents in town, and up to the day of his death he swore that the signature was that of Mr. Millner; in addition to which, his (Alexander's) wife had since corroborated his testimony by stating that she remembered the circumstance. Mr. Millner, on his return home, kept out of the way so long, that the time within which he could have been brought to a courtmartial passed away before recourse could be had to such a trial.
 Mr. Harvey  said, the present was not a gratuitous proposition of some Member who was ever found ready to bring forward cases which had something to redress in them. The Board had been stated to possess constitutional responsibility. They claimed the power of cashiering at will, naval officers, and having done so, he would ask, to whom was that Board amenable? It had also been said, that the House ought to place confidence in the correctness of the inquiry which had already taken place; but was the House prepared to place such confidence in any Member of his Majesty's Government as to receive his statement without calling for evidence? Why, he would ask, having admitted the right of the House to make the inquiry, did Government refuse to grant the Return required? A constitutional House of Commons could never recognise the dictum that the House ought to be satisfied with the inquiry which the Board had made; on the contrary, the House ought to say they were willing to believe the motives of the Board had been beyond suspicion, but they would take leave to judge for themselves.
 Mr. Baines  had gone to the library at Lambeth Palace, and having stated that he wanted to examine these manuscripts for historical purposes, had received from the Archbishop of Canterbury and from his librarian every facility he could desire, and that, too, without the payment of any fee.
 Mr. Robinson  seconded the motion; and be would not do so were it not that the petitioners had exhausted every other means of obtaining redress, and were, therefore, driven to bring the case before the House. If the prerogative in such cases was exercised with the advice of Ministers, Ministers ought to be responsible. Though commissions were given by the King, it Was not so clear that they could be justly taken away without inquiry, after officers, had earned their half-pay by length of service. There would be no ground of complaint if officers, when charges were made against them, refused to submit to inquiry. He saw no reason for refusing inquiry except the mere technical one that these officers not being on full pay could not be tried by Court-martial. It would be easy to substitute some other tribunal of officers.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he had heard nothing in the arguments of the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty to warrant his refusal to produce the Returns moved for. The real state of the case was, that there had never been any trial at all—at least nothing worthy the name of one. There never was a case of greater hardship and injustice than that of Mr. Rowland Millner. Talk of the honour of the service! Was it for the honour of the service that the evidence taken before a harsh tribunal like the Admiralty was never laid before the parties accused? The hon. Gentle-
 1190 l. 1191
 The Speaker  observed, that the circumstance to which the right, hon. Baronet referred had frequently given him much pain. He had always felt the interruptions to be irregular, but had yielded to them, from a desire to consult what, at the time, appeared to be the general feeling of the House. He was, however, firmly convinced, that the convenience of the House would always be best consulted by adhering with strictness to the fixed and settled rule of debate.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the present system of prison discipline was a disgrace to Scotland, and could not be allowed to continue. It was also a consideration not unworthy of the attention of the House, that the proposed measure was likely to prove a measure of economy. That it must be so, was evident from this —that if crime be diminished, expense must be diminished in the same, or nearly in the same proportion.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he was disappointed at the way in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had answered his statement. He had put the question on its widest base, and had laid down the principle that the State ought not to tax the necessaries of life, among the foremost of which he would place education. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had not met the argument, had not shown that a tax on newspapers was no obstruction to the diffusion of knowledge; but had merely said, that because other things were taxed, education must be taxed also. The doctrine which he (Mr. Roebuck) held was, that they should tax those things which were least necessary most heavily, and those things which were most necessary, and which it was most difficult to get, most lightly. The argument of the right hon. Gentleman might be very good for a Chancellor of the Exchequer, but would not satisfy any man of education. The Post-office had nothing at all to do with the large circulation of the London newspapers. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had attempted to fasten on him a reprobation of the language used by the press when the fact was, that he never said a word about the manner in which the press was conducted. He hoped the House would not refuse to abolish a monopoly so injurious to the general advantage of the community.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to order. He had given no description whatever of those parties.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for the appointment of a Select Committee, to take into consideration the expediency of abolishing the penny stamp on newspapers. He placed his proposition on the single ground, and on no other ground whatever, that it was desirable to remove every obstruction to the education of the people. It was the duty of that House so to frame their proceedings as to give every facility to the attainment of that object. The existence of the penny stamp on newspapers was unfavourable to that object. Whoever had recently attended to the concerns of this country, and the world, must be aware, that the people took a greater interest in political matters at the present, than they had taken at any former period. As a larger mass of people were thus submitted to the influence of education, it was the duty of every Government deserving the name of Government, to do all they could so to fashion the measures of the Legislature as to give the community the amplest means of instruction with, respect to that on which they wished to be informed, the general concerns of the community, social and political. Now, what had the present liberal Government' done to remove obstacles to the attainment of knowledge by the people? Had they done all they could for that purpose? No;
 1163 1164
 Mr. Hume  hoped, as they were about to divide upon the question, that he might appeal to the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) for his vote. The right hon. Baronet had heard the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He should be glad to know whether the right hon. Baronet differed in any great degree from the view taken of the subject by the hon. Member for Finsbury? Or would the right hon. Baronet tell the House that he considered the taxed press as that moral, highly-improved, and intelligent organ of communication that aright hon. Gentleman opposite had once told him it was. He did not wish to take off the penny postage; he only wished to place all the newspapers in the country in the same situation as that in which three or four of the metropolitan newspapers stood. In London several papers were published without a stamp for circulation in town and the suburbs of the town, and with a stamp for circulation in the country. Now, he wished the same liberty to be extended to every place in the kingdom. He wished that every place in the kingdom should be allowed to publish an unstamped paper for circulation at home, liable to a postage charge of a
 1176 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d., l. s.,
 Mr. Hume  would be sorry to put the country to any unnecessary expense, but he still thought that these documents ought to be printed. He assured the noble Lord that he had found great difficulty in obtaining what he wanted in these manuscripts. It was of great importance that the contents of these documents should be open to the public.
 Mr. Hume  said; he was anxious to bring the House back to the real question before them. He must say that a secret inquisition was highly objectionable; and as he thought it unfair that the characters of officers should be whispered away by a dozen individuals, on, perhaps, incorrect information, he was Opposed to the power which was placed in the hands of the Board of Admiralty. It was true, that they had an appeal to the Crown, but of what advantage was that appeal, when the only thing to be gained from it was, a reference back to the same authority by whom the matter was decided in the first instance.
 Sir Love Parry  said, it was evident that there was an anomaly at the Admiralty between the cases of officers on half-pay and those on full, for the former could not, like the latter, have the opportunity of clearing themselves by a Court Martial from charges brought against them, while the latter could do so. He considered, that the individuals in question, as well as any others, had a right to call for investigation into their conduct, and not to be thrown upon the world as paupers, without having had a satisfactory trial. Such, he was happy to say, was not the case in the profession to which he belonged. The returns moved for, could not, with any show of justice be refused.
 Mr. Phillip Howard  declared, that resting on the authority of the gallant Admiral (Sir E. Codrington) who had brought forward the motion, he should give his vote in favour of it.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  rose to renew his motion for copies of all the Parliamentary surveys of Church lands made in 1646, and deposited by Parliament in the library of manuscripts in Lambeth Palace. He was sorry that accident had prevented him from being in his place when his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex brought this motion forward as his substitute. He was afraid that he had, by his absence on that occasion, placed his hon. Friend in a most ungracious position. The papers of which he was now moving for copies, were the property of Parliament. They contained the surveys of Church lands, which Parliament had ordered to be made in 1646, and were placed by Parliament, which did not know what to do with them at the Restoration, in the care of the Archbishop of Canterbury for safe custody, They were therefore beyond all dispute public property; but still, if you wanted an extract respecting any particular parish you must pay a fee of half a guinea for it to the Archbishop's secretary, or if you wanted, as he had wanted, extracts respecting twelve parishes, you must pay
 1200 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  resumed. Why, the hon. and learned Member had argued that the effect of the present duty was to put some thousands of pounds into the pockets of a few monopolists of London. By giving a free circulation to newspapers a national charac-
 1165 1166 l. l, 1167
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had been misunderstood. His argument was this, not that the stamp improved the press, but that the substitution of a postage duty for a stamp duty would deprive the English press of its present character.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt it to be his duty to oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Bath. Whoever had heard that hon. Gentleman, must suppose that his Majesty's Government wished to retain the duty for some odious purposes of their own. Nothing could be further from the fact. The stamp-duty on newspapers was as low at present as it was a century ago. When the subject of the reduction of the stamp-duty on news, papers had been first introduced, after his coming into office, he had stated his fears, that the financial state of the country would not permit his making such reduction. But, in a future Session, he redeemed the pledge which he had given by inference in a preceding one. He must now say, that he could not propose, in making any new arrangement, to redeem the remaining tax on the article of newspapers, seeing that he had already made so large a concession. He defended its continuance, moreover, because he contended, that with respect to newspapers, the Government gave to newspapers great advantages, in exchange for the tax which was laid upon them. The free circulation of newspapers through the General Post-office of this country, was just one of those advantages which were given, and one of the means afforded to improve the character of the press, and to diffuse political knowledge amongst all classes of the community. The hon. and learned Member for Bath maintained, that the present law went to establish a monopoly of the press of the metropolis; and the hon. and learned Member had used some hard words in reference to the proprietors of that press.
 Mr. Wakley  said, if [the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer were really so well satisfied with his own plan, he would ask, how could he hesitate to knock off the remaining half of the tax? The right hon. Gentleman had argued that the people had derived great advantages from the free circulation of the newspaper press; and yet he had declared against the setting of the press free, and hesitated to do that which was right. He felt that the Radicals were placed in an unfortunate position since the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues had come into office. They had been in a sort of partnership with the present Ministry, supporting them in their good measures, and hesitating to give that support when they disapproved of their proceedings. The Radicals were thus the watching, not the sleeping, partners of the Ministry, and were acting] in a most unfavourable position. If they, in sincerity, advocated those measures which were likely to serve the public cause, was it not hard that after all these efforts on their part they could not obtain from the Government one solitary supporter? It was almost time that this state of things should cease; and it was utterly impossible that it should much longer continue. And he could assure his Majesty's Ministers with much truth, that the Radicals were subjected to very bitter complaints out of doors for the very quiet, easy part which they took in that House. It was often asked of them "What matters it to us whether Whigs or Tories, whether Conservatives, as they are called, or Radicals, be in power, provided we see
 1168 Name, name! 1169 1170
 Mr. Wakley  was obliged to his right hon. Friend for correcting him; and although the interruption might have been irregular, he was glad it had been made, because, instead of impairing, it tended to strengthen the argument he was about to advance. His right hon. Friend said, that if the penny stamp were abolished, he thought it would deprive the English press of its present character. Now everybody in the habit of reading newspapers knew how private persons and public characters were often abused; and everybody so circumstanced must acknowledge that the present character of the press required to be changed. By way of illustration to this point, he would take the liberty of reading an extract from one of our public journals. They all knew that in poetry the finer qualities of the mind had play. To show what a stamped press could do, he would take a specimen of the poetry of the  Times "Seum condensed of Irish bog! Ruffian—coward—demagogue! Boundless liar—base detractor! Nurse of murded—treason's factor! Of Pope and priest the crouching slave, While thy lips of freedom rave; Of England's fame the vip'rous hater, Yet wanting courage for a traitor. Ireland's peasants feed thy purse, Still thou art her bane and curse. Tho' thou liv'st an empire's scorn, Lift on high thy brazen horn— 1172 Every dog shall have his day, This is thine of brutish sway. Mounted on a Premier's back, Lash the Ministerial pack; At thy nod they hold their places— Crack their sinews, grind their faces. Tho' thy hand had stabbed their mother They would fawn and call thee brother; By their leave pursue thy calling, Rend thy patriot lungs with bawling; Spout thy filth—effuse thy sllme, Slander is in thee no crime. Safe from challenge—safe from law— What can curb thy callous jaw? Who would sue a convict liar? On a poltroon who would fire? Thou may'st walk in open light, Few will kick thee—none can fight. Then grant the monster leave to roam, Let him slaver out his foam. Only give him length of string, He'll contrive himself to swing." The Times The Times 1173 l. l. l. 1174
 Mr. Forbes  did not much approve of any further increase of centralization, and certainly, before he gave his assent to the measure then before the House, he must see what was said to its details in the county which he had the honour to represent.
 Admiral Adam : Sir, I must Say that I also was surprised to hear the hon. and gallant Admiral behind me prefer such charges against my old and gallant Friend, Sir Pulteney Malcolm. If the hon. and gallant Admiral had had charges to bring against my old and esteemed Friend, why did he not make them in an open and manly manner, and net by Way of insinuation?
 Admiral Adam  could not find fault with the hon. and gallant Member for bringing forward this motion, if he really felt that justice required it; but he could not, at the same time, avoid congratulating him on the able supporters he had in the hon. Members for Durham and Knaresborough. He, however, called on the House to beware how it interfered with the prerogative of the Crown, which had been given for the benefit of the country. In the absence of any other constitutional tribunal, the Admiralty had investigated this case, and had come to an honest decision upon it; and until some other tribunal was appointed, they would continue to exercise the functions of judgment reposed in them, with, he hoped, as much honour to themselves as benefit to the service, and to the country.
 Sir Edward Codrington  was understood, in explanation, to speak to the following effect:— "Sir, I mentioned the subject because I had complained to the right hon. Baronet himself, that men who were not at the battle of Navarino, had received two dollars each as prize money, for guns fished up after the battle from the Bay of Navarino. I made the complaint because the right hon. Baronet resisted giving to my men the gratuity I claimed for them for that battle. But, Sir, what did the right hon. Baronet do? Why, he appointed that very officer who did this, to supersede me in the command of the Mediterranean fleet. Sir, the right hon. Baronet has taunted me with not having named the officer to whom I alluded, but as I should be incapable to speak that of a gentleman behind his back, which I would not say before his face, I have no hesitation whatever in stating, that the officer to whom I alluded is Sir Pulteney Malcolm. I, for one, Sir, disapproved of Sir Pulteney Malcolm's conduct, and I think that marry men would have subjected themselves to be tried by a Court-martial, if they had acted in the same way. If any other officer had been tried upon the charge, and it had been proved against him, I am convinced that this would have been the case. Now, Sir, I hope I have spoken explicitly. Sir Palteney Malcolm spoke freely of me, and in doing so he did not speak fairly. I state this, Sir, as a fact. I think I have spoken explicitly now."
 Sir Edward Codrington  observed, that the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Graham) had on a former occasion stated, that if he (Sir E. Codrington) should act in any way unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, the right hon. Baronet should feel it his duty, if he were at the Board of Admiralty, to recommend his dismissal from the service. Now, he should be glad to learn from the right hon. Baronet what he considered to be conduct unworthy of an officer and a gentleman. Did he think that a naval officer who employed his Majesty's ships in carrying materials for building houses would be acting in a manner unworthy of an officer and a gentleman? Would he consider that the officer in command of a ship, who fished up brass guns which had been blown up, and distributed the proceeds of their sale as prize-money among men who had never been in the action, at the rate of two French dollars a-man—would he consider that a naval commander, who had thus conducted himself, had been guilty of behaviour unworthy of an officer and a gentleman? He should be glad to hear the right hon. Baronet's opinion on this point, because he knew that such circumstances had taken place.
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his motion for a Return, stating the period at which the names of
 1185 l. Times 1186 l. 1187
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  denied that' injustice, if any had been done, had been inflicted by the present Admiralty. It was a case of almost thirty years standing. He had himself investigated the case, and was satisfied that no injustice had been done. What interest could the Admiralty possibly have in breaking an officer unless he had committed some offence? If this interference were established, the service would be ruined, for it would infringe upon the due observance of those rules which had for their origin the necessity that every man in such a profession should be a gentleman, and wholly untainted by the least suspicion of dishonourable conduct.
 Sir James Graham  said, that if the object of the division was to ascertain who were the friends, and who were the enemies of the navy, he for one gladly accepted the hon. and gallant Admiral's challenge. Nothing, he thought, could be less conducive to the interest of the service, than to have persons whose honour had been tainted, in connexion with it; and he was persuaded, that if the sense of the navy were taken, it would be found that they were not unfavourable to the power exercised by the Board of Admiralty, or desirous of an appeal from its decisions to the authority of that House. He must deny that he had ever contended that the power vested in the Board of
 1195 1196
 Sir James Graham : The hon. and gallant Officer has spoken explicitly enough. The hon. and gallant Officer alluded to this subject on two or three former occasions, but this is the first time that he has ever mentioned the name of the officer to whom he referred. Sir, I entertain the highest opinion possible of Sir Pulteney Malcolm, and I do not believe that there is a more honourable or gallant officer in the profession to which he belongs, it
 1197
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the language of the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last was so seducing, his countenance so very friendly, and his demeanour so alluring, that he was almost afraid, if he did remain entirely silent, that part of the House might infer that he was going to vote with the hon. Gentleman, and the country in general might suppose, in the present state of political parties, that there was some secret communication between them—that that alliance which the hon. Gentleman spoke of between those whom he called the Reformers and the Government was about to be dissolved, and an alliance about to be cemented between the former party and the Conservatives. He therefore thought it absolutely necessary for him to inform the hon. Gentleman that he agreed with his Majesty's Government on the question before the House. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that there was no breach of good faith in the case; and he hoped that he should not be the means of interrupting the communication of the allied parties. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), proposed to lay before the House documents which would exhibit to them the result of the experiment which had been made by the late reduction of the stamp-duty. The hon. Gentleman said, that because he did not
 1177 Penny Magazine" Penny Magazine; d. 1178 Hume: 1179
 Sir Robert Peel  took the opportunity afforded by the interruption of the Chancellor of the Exchequer of rising to a point of order. It had often of late occurred to him that they were falling into a bad habit of allowing Gentlemen in the midst of a speech to offer explanations, which, according to the rules of debate, ought to be deferred until the speech was concluded. This practice had a tendency to interrupt the train of argument in the
 1171
 Sir Robert Peel  was not going to throw
 1201
 Sir William Rae  said, that the country ought to feel obliged to the hon. Gentleman for having brought this measure forward. He trusted that this was a Government measure, as it was the only mode in which it could be effectually carried through. He had paid much attention to this subject, and had endeavoured to apply a remedy to the acknowledged evils at present existing. His chief difficulty had been in providing the large district prisons and procuring the necessary funds, but the ban, Member would not have the same difficulties to contend with, if he obtained
 1206
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  stated, that a sense of justice would compel him to vote for the motion. The circumstances under which the parties were placed, made it only fair to grant an inquiry.
 Lord Stanley  replied, that in the Report of the Committee of 1828 it was distinctly declared that the composition of the Legislative Council did not require the interference of the Parliament by Legislative enactment, as its composition could be improved in the degree required by the sound judgment of the executive. On this ground he did not think that any legal enactment was required.
 The Chairman  stated, that it was the fifth resolution which was to be considered.
 Lord Stanley  said, that perhaps his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) would excuse him if he did not attempt to enter further into the general question than to address himself to that part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman which had been directed most pointedly at him. Whatever the hon. Member for Bath might think of that uncontrollable temper with which he had been pleased to compliment him, he could assure the hon. Member that his want of control was never less put to trial than on the present occasion, and his object in now rising to address the House was to give an explanation on one point, which explanation might save the hon. Gentleman and the House some trouble. It appeared by what the hon. Member had said, that be bad done some
 1230 1231 * * * † Ibid. p. 692, 693. 1232 1233 1234 *
 Lord Stanley  wished to ask a question of the noble Lord. Treating as these resolutions did of a variety of different subjects, it was quite impossible to mix them up in one discussion, or to come to one decision upon the various subjects involved in them. He wanted to know what course in fulfilment of these resolutions was intended to be taken by his noble Friend. He wished to know which of the resolutions was to be made the subject matter of those Bills which it was absolutely necessary should be introduced and passed in order to give them the slightest effect. The first resolution required no Bill at all; but the fifth resolution, which they were now discussing, ought to form the subject of a separate Bill. He was quite satisfied that it was not advisable to subject the Executive Council to the control suggested by the House of Assembly. If the noble Lord meant to follow up this resolution with a Bill to enforce it, he should not object to the general statement in the resolution, that it was expedient to adopt means of improving the Executive Council of Lower Canada. If no Bill was to be introduced, he should protest against being mixed up with anything like an implied pledge of the kind. If the noble Lord intended to
 1250
 Lord J. Russell  was very glad that he had given way to his noble Friend who had just spoken, because it gave him an opportunity of again explaining the grounds upon which these resolutions had been proposed, as well as the general course of policy by which the Government had been guided upon this very important question. It was stated in a former debate, and had been made the ground of a charge against his Majesty's Government, with respect to these resolutions, from two very different quarters, that they were totally inadequate to the object they pro-
 * 1235 1236 1237 1238 1239 "The presence in the provinces of certain pretended authorities, whose powers and attributes are not to be found either in the constitution, or in any law, has so often been alleged by your Excellency, and by the executive authorities in the metropolitan state, as being of a nature to retard to a future period the restoration of order and the introduction of those improvements demanded by the people, that we cannot refrain from here making a few general observations which must have attracted the attention of every public man. We believe that this House is the legitimate and authorised organ of all classes of inhabitants in the country, and that its representations are the constitutional expressions of their wishes and of their wants. We believe that the impartial use we have made of the powers vested in us for the protection and happiness of all our fellow-subjects ought to have secured to us due confidence when we solemnly exercised those high privileges. It must, however, have been the result of an unjust distrust of this House, and the people of this province, that his Majesty's Government has rejected our prayers to defer to the opinions of a few individuals, strangers to the country, the fate of which was thereby committed to men whose vague and subordinate mission could not be acknowledged by any independent authority recognised by the constitution, the spirit of which his Majesty is particularly desirous to maintain." 1240 1241 animus, 1242 1243 1244 1245 1246 1247 l. l., l. 1248 1249
 Lord John Russell  stated, that it certainly was his intention to bring in a Bill to carry into effect the changes he proposed in such cases as required an Act of Parliament. This would not be necessary in all cases. He would, however, mention one as an instance. It was proposed to exclude the judges from sitting as members of the Executive Council, and this would be effected by a Bill.
 Lord John Russell : The hon. and learned Member for Bath has acknowledged that I have, in the course of this debate, spoken in terms of moderation and temper towards the Canadian people; and I trust, that in the terms I am about to use, I shall not be found wanting in that moderation and temper, either towards the Canadian people or towards the hon. and learned Gentleman himself: but I do think myself bound to say, that I shall not be turned from the course which I have thought it my duty to pursue, by any regard for the threats of the hon. Member. The case, as it is brought before the House, is this. The House of Assembly of Lower Canada have asked for an elective Legislative Council, and for an Executive Council, which shall be responsible to them, and not to the Government or Crown of Great Britain. We consider that these demands are inconsistent with the relations between a colony and the mother country, and that it would be better to say, at once, "let the two countries separate," than for us to pretend to govern the colony afterwards. We know, likewise, that a considerable number of the inhabitants of that colony, of British origin, protest most loudly against these demands, as leading in all probability to their oppression. This is the stale of the case; and when we come forward to ask the House to agree to a resolution, upon these questions, the hon. Gentleman tells me that we ought not to proceed; first, because the people of Canada may raise the standard of revolt; and, secondly, because be says that, if I do proceed, he
 1278 1279
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to the present Motion, though he entertained some doubt as to the value of the documents. When they were deposited with the Archbishop of Canterbury, it was intimated that he might, if he thought proper, transmit to the several dioceses of England and Wales, such of these documents as related to their dioceses respectively; it might, therefore, not be in the power of the most rev. Prelate to deliver up the whole of them or allow them to be copied, for the obvious reason that they were not all in his possession.
 Mr. Hawes  said, he had the honour to represent the Archbishop in that House—the most rev. Prelate was a constituent of his. He had lived in his neighbourhood many years—he had had some intercourse with him, and he must be allowed to say, that he did not believe a more disinterested or distinguished Gentleman ever filled the situation of Archbishop. With regard to his conduct in this matter, there could be no doubt that it was in every respect what it ought to have been.
 Mr. Charles Buller  felt regret at prolonging the discussion, because it seemed to him that the longer it was protracted, it was conducted with the worse temper. By temper, he meant the spirit in which the House approached the question, and he certainly thought that they were legislating upon this question in ignorance, in passion, and in indifference, in a national and perfectly excusable indifference, arising from ignorance, and in ignorance that very naturally fomented and excited passion. To this he himself pleaded to be as guilty as any Member in that House could be, for it was but within the last three or four days that he had seriously and sedulously applied himself to the consideration of this question, and he now felt that he should be incurring a very heavy responsibility if he gave the assent of silence to these resolutions, as he had already given the silent assent of absence. When he talked of the indifference of the House, he alluded to that indifference which was so vary natural when the interest was so very
 1269 ex post facto 1270 1271
 Mr. Grote : The hon. Gentleman who spoke last expressed his regret that Government had delayed these resolutions so long as they had. He took a different view of that circumstance, and, on the contrary, rejoiced at the delay, thinking that Government would thereby have an opportunity of reviewing some of the most prominent points in these resolutions. He regretted much that they had not been induced to alter their course. The language of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) who had passed over the eighth resolution was, that he did not perceive the tendency of the eighth resolution. It insulted the people of Canada, and went to deprive them of all chance of good government for the time to come. The noble Lord took credit to himself for not repealing the Act of William 4th. This resolution did more, for it disposed of the whole revenue of Canada, without the consent of the people, and subverted all those maxims on which good government had been always considered to rest. The noble Lord knew the history of England. He must recollect that in the time of the long Parliament Lord Strafford advised Charles not to call
 1261 1262
 Mr. Robinson  reminded the noble Lord, that he told him what would be the consequence of postponing the consideration of these resolutions, and he now saw the result. When the resolutions were first brought forward, they were considered in a full House, and this, of course, would have its effect in the colony; if, however, they passed the House when such a small number of Members were present as then occupied the benches, they would have little or no effect in the colony. He thought that it was a most unwise course of proceeding. He knew that the object of the hon. and learned Member for Bath was delay, and he did not blame him for the course he had taken; but he could not help finding fault with the Government for so readily yielding to his demands. The hon. Member for Bridge-water said, that he would oppose the resolutions by every means in his power; and now the noble Lord had an opportunity of seeing, that when a delay was asked for, on the ground that there was not sufficient information before the House, it was intended that the moral effect of passing these resolutions by a large majority should be taken away; for if they were agreed to in a House like the present, when not one-fifth of the Members were there, they would have little influence in the colony. The Commissioners, indeed, in their Report, stated that the effect of the course taken would depend on the state of the majority by which it was sanctioned in that House. With respect to the subject matter of debate, he must observe that it was of too much importance to allow of its being mixed up with personalities; he should
 1256 1257 1258 1259 1260
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that having spoken upon this subject on a former occasion, he was unwilling to detain the House at that late hour. He was anxious, however, to correct a misapprehension of what he had said on a former night, in being supposed to have advocated the principle of an elective Legislative Council. He had never expressed his approbation of that principle with respect either to Canada or to any other of our colonies, because he considered it highly dangerous in its application to any of them. He thought it also dangerous, that it should go forth to those colonies that any Member of his Majesty's Government had expressed his approbation of that principle, even in the abstract. It was contrary to the genius of the constitution of this country. There was no war-
 1290
 Mr. Leader  reminded the noble Lord who so much desired to see an overwhelming majority in support of these resolutions, and who expected that they would meet with that degree of support from the House that all the Bills of Lord North—all the measures which succeeded in exasperating the American people in the last age—were carried by overwhelming majorities. He maintained, that the present position of Canada tallied exactly
 1267
 Dr. Nicholl  said, that on the preceding night it had been intimated, that the Archbishop of Canterbury was perfectly willing to facilitate access to those papers, and to give them up if such were the wish of the House, for he Considered himself as only the depositary of these papers, regarding them as Parliamentary documents. The secretary looked for no fees, and would not interfere with any arrangement which it might be thought necessary or expedient to make.
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to say one or two words in explanation, as the right hon. Baronet appeared to have misunderstood the force of his observations. He had not threatened this country with a Canadian revolt—he had not said, that the French Canadians were anxious to dissolve their connexion with England. On the contrary, he had said, that there was a strong desire on their part to maintain the connexion; and as a proof of it, he had only to call to memory how right gallantly they fought for us in the last war. There were two or three points of the speech of the right hon. Baronet, on which he should like to make a passing observation, but at that late hour he felt that he ought to abstain from trespassing further on the patience of the House.
 Mr. Roebuck  must acknowledge that the manner of the noble Lord and the language of his speech were quite conciliatory; nothing could be better in these, two respects, but, nothwithstanding these, there lurked under them the painful reality—the same insult and deep injury to the Canadian people, who would not be conciliated by gentle manner and gentle tones. The noble Lord had heaped injury and insult on a whole nation, by telling them that, in spite of the remonstrances and the acts of their representatives, he would do with them what he pleased, because he did not consider them worthy of self-government. An hon. Member had charged him with a wish and an intention to raise a flame in America. He would ask that hon. Member what he could gain by raising a flame in America?
 1272 1273 Hear, hear. 1274 1275 pro hac vice." 1276 Robinson: 1277
 Mr. Roebuck  begged to remind the noble Lord that the Government did not state that it adopted the resolutions of the Committee of 1828. The Executive Council was created by Act of Parliament, and not by the Crown, and therefore would require the agency of the former to alter its constitution.
 Mr. Roebuck  was surprised that the noble Lord did not make his objection before they agreed to the last resolution. He should have asked, before the last resolution was put, what measures were to be founded on it, and whether an Act was to be introduced.
 Mr. Roebuck  rose and said: Having what I believe to be an important proposition to lay before the Committee, I am exceedingly desirous of obtaining their attention while yet untired and undisturbed by the warmth and asperities of debate. I am now about to endeavour, for the last time at which the attempt can be successful, to propound a plan for the reconciliation of the people of Canada and this country, and for the amicable and immediate arrangement of the perplexing and fatal dissensions which have so long existed between the provincial Government and the imperial Administration. We are on the eve of taking a step which will for ever preclude all hope of peace and content hereafter. I say this is no spirit of boasting or of taunt. To me, a quarrel between England and Canada can bring nothing but pain and regret; but I thus warn this House, and the Ministers of the Crown, because I know the subject on which I am speaking, and but too plainly perceive the long train of disaster and distress which the fatal course we now meditate, will inevitably entail upon the people of both countries. In order to avert this evil, I deem it my duty to make one effort more, and a solemn duty I esteem it; and, in order that I may perform it to the best of my ability, I beseech the attention and indulgent consideration of the Committee. If the resolutions
 1210 1211 1212 1213 "We have as yet," (say they) "only spoken of those causes of imperfection in the upper chamber which were of an adventitious nature, depending upon the mixed quality of the population, or growing out of the false position which the council assumed, when it charged itself with the duty of supporting the political ascendancy of a minority. To which we might have added the damage it received from the frequent and injudicious compliments that were in former times paid to it at the expense of the Assembly, in the speeches at the prorogation of Parliament, or on other public occasions. We have still to notice the more essential disadvantages, that highly respectable and well-qualified as are many of the individuals who might be found to till the places of councillors, yet in a new country, where there are no distinctions of title, and few of fortune it is difficult for the mere nomination of the Crown to confer upon any person sufficient importance to maintain him with effect in the position of a legislature that in such a country the people will be little inclined to respect any Legislative body which does not emanate from themselves; and that this effect must be enhanced in Lower Canada by the example of the powerful states which flourish so immediately in her neighbourhood. For these considerations,
 1214 "In the course of these protracted disputes, too, it happened that the Assembly, composed almost exclusively of French Canadians, have constantly figured as the assertors of popular rights, and as the advocates of liberal institutions; whilst the council, in which the English interest prevails have, on the other hand, been made to appear as the supporters of arbitrary power, and of antiquated political doctrines; and to this alone, we are persuaded the fact is to be attributed that the majority of settlers from the United States have hitherto sided with the French rather than the English party. The representatives of the counties of Stanstead and Misisquoi have not been sent to Parliament to defend the feudal system, to protect the French language, or to oppose a system of registration. They have been sent to lend their aid to the assertors of popular rights, and to oppose a Government by which, in their opinion, settlers from the United States have been neglected, or regarded with disfavour. Even during our own residence in the province we have seen the council continue to act in the same spirit, and discard what we believe would have proved a most salutary measure, in a manner which can hardly he taken otherwise than to indicate at least a coldness towards the establishment of customs calculated to exercise the judgment and promote the general improvement of the people: we allude to a Bill for enabling parishes and townships to elect local officers and assess themselves for local purposes, which measure, though not absolutely rejected, was suffered to fail in a way that showed no Friendliness to the principle," 1215 1216 1217 1218 1219 1220 1221 1222 1223 1224 1225 1226 1227 currish 1228 1229
 Mr. Roebuck  said, if the leading Members of the parties in that House were to make their speeches before ten o'clock, it would be found to have a beneficial effect. At present, the House was nearly emptied from soon after five o'clock until that hour, as it was well understood that no great
 1209
 Sir Love Parry  could, not agree in the condemnation which the hon. Member who had just sat down had passed on these resolutions; on the contrary, he hoped that the people of Canada would see that they were really adapted to the exigencies of the case, and would receive them, accordingly, in the spirit of thankfulness. He confessed, that he expected
 1268
 Mr. Patrick Stewart  thought that if Ministers had entertained, any doubt with
 1263 "It appears very clear that the relation of dependency which a colonial Establishment supposes could never be secured by a delegation of that authority to the Governor, or an extension of those rights to the people which give energy to the Executive power, and secure complete liberty to the subjects on this side of the Atlantic." "To take one example only of the radical difference between the two systems, the influence of the Commons, from their power of withholding supplies, which almost always prevents the negative of the Crown from being exerted in Great Britain, and is, indeed, the great corner stone of the British Constitution, has almost no existence in the colonial system. Accordingly every measure proposed by the Colonial Legislature that does not meet with the entire concurrence of the British Cabinet was sure to be rejected
 1264 "If you elected the second Chamber, and found that, having elected the Second Chamber, the obstacle to the popular will was the sovereign power not elected, is it not in the course of reason natural that you should wish to proceed to elect also the sovereign power?" "I have not heard many opinions expressed upon that subject, but I will take the matter even with a larger view. If, in the course of time, it was found that, the interests of the colony were so widely
 1265 "A local responsible, and national Government, to decide on peace and war, and commercial relations with the stranger, that is what Ireland and British America demand; and this is what, before a very few years, they will be sufficiently strong to take, if others are not sufficiently just to give it to them." 1266
 Mr. Borthwick  would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury for the production of copies Of these documents; and he should do so with much greater pleasure if he had not heard the concluding remarks of that hon. Member. The imputation, that the Archbishop wished to make money of those documents for his secretary, could not have been seriously meant by the hon. Member. It certainly was wholly unmerited by any act of the most rev. Primate. He Would, support the Motion, on the ground that these documents were the property of the public.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  observed, that the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, appeared to think that the House ought to give compensation to the Archbishop's secretary—it should be recollected that the papers in question were public documents, and that the Archbishop of Canterbury ought himself to pay his own secretary.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  said, that the House ought to obtain copies of those documents in the first instance, and then they might consider what might be the expense of having them printed. He thought the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford was quite mistaken as to the expense of copying. He could get it done for 50 l. l 1294 l.
 Mr. Ward  said, that it was hardly possible for him to express the pleasure he felt at hearing the early part of the speech of the noble Lord, but this had been damped by the latter part of it. It was not without great pain that he listened to the noble Lord when he alluded to the intention of adopting steps for the enforcement of the suggestions embodied in their resolutions. He differed from the hon. and learned Member for Bath on one
 1251 1252 1253 1254 1255
 Sir Robert H. Inglis , adverting to the Motion (made last night) for copies of certain portions of Parliamentary Surveys in the library at the Palace, in Lambeth, observed, that he was authorized by his Grace the Archbishop to express his willingness to give any extracts from, or copies of, those documents the House might require; but he would put it to the House to consider that the very copying of those documents would cost 400 l.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to avail himself of the present opportunity to explain to the House the reasons for the vote which he was now about to give upon this question, and the view which he took of the resolutions which had been proposed by the noble Lord. He assured the hon. and learned Member for Bath, that he was never more mistaken in his life than in the impression which he seemed to entertain that he would abstain from delivering his opinions on this question, in order to increase the embarrassment of his Majesty's Government in dealing with this subject; and it was not because he concurred with the propositions of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, or blamed the noble Lord for the course which he had marked out for the Government in his resolutions, but because he agreed with his noble Friend near him (Lord Stanley) and participated in the objections which he had made to those
 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 Roebuck: 1288 1289
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the general understanding with respect to those papers was, that they were documents' of a public character, that therefore, there could exist no objection to their production, and he should vole for their being produced; but he confessed that he could not help participating in the surprise which had been expressed by the hon. Member near him at the allusion made by his hon. Friend to the conduct in this matter of the Archbishop of Canterbury. It did very much surprise him that the name of that most rev. Prelate should have been mentioned on the present occasion in any other terms than those of acknowledgment and respect; for he had not only afforded every facility of access
 1295
 Sir R. Peel  was quite sure that all those who were expected to take up a subject, after every argument had been exhausted, would heartily concur in the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. It was a most harassing task for any one to get up after a three nights' debate, and address the House after all had been said upon the question that it was possible to advance.
 Sir R. Peel  believed the time was fast approaching when the House, by the general consent of all parties, would make some great improvement in the manner of conducting the public business. He did not impute blame to any one; but discussions had been allowed to proceed to such a length, and they had got into such a habit of adjourned debates, that nobody could feel sure when a question, even of the greatest importance, would be brought under consideration. Like the horse, of whom it was said, that it was easy to bring him to the water, but that it was not easy to make him drink, it was easy for an hon. Member to bring in a Bill, but it was not easy for him to force the House to come to a satisfactory conclusion with it. All parties ought to wait and to direct their undivided attention to the remedy of this evil. At present, the discussion of one subject was immediately followed by the discussion of another. A month perhaps intervened before the discussion of the first subject was resumed; by that time all the arguments that had been urged were forgotten, and it became necessary to repeat them. It would be highly satisfactory to the subject if some better arrangement could be made; if, for instance, they were to select two or three of the most important and pressing Bills, and perfect them before proceeding with any other. Such a course would be much more satisfactory to all concerned, than the manner in which the business was now done.
 Mr. Curteis  said, he was always unwilling to take up the time of the House; it was his wish to have seen the matter settled when the question was last under consideration. The case was simply this: —The petitioner (Mr. Mills) stated, that the plans and sections delivered in by the parties to Stephenson's line, were not in accordance with the standing orders, tend it was alleged, that in 131 instances the orders had not been complied with. It
 1302
 Lord G. Lennox  contended, that the motion for a Committee was not for the purpose of proving that the parties to Stephenson's line had acted improperly, but was made with a view of having Mills's line again introduced to the House, He therefore trusted the House would not allow Mr. Milk's line to be again brought forward, or take any step which would have the effect of injuring or retarding Stephenson's line.
 Colonel Wood  believed, that the present proceedings originated with a disappointed engineer, whose own line having been thrown out, was now attempting to defeat
 1303
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that the noble Lord stood in a position that might well be envied. He was not the friend of Don Carlos—oh, no; nor was he the enemy of Don Carlos—he was only the enemy of the enemies of Don Carlos. That was the position that the noble Lord took in assailing the British Legion. In the same way, the noble Lord was not friendly to the Orange faction in Ireland, but only the enemy of the enemies of that faction. The noble Lord was perfectly consistent: he refused to ameliorate the institutions of Ireland, and he protested against the amelioration of the institutions of Spain. The noble Lord's information was every way worthy of his consistency. He gave the House a long account of his conversations in France with the wandering deserters whom he found there from Spain, and he told the House what severe censures those high authorities had passed upon the conduct of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He (Mr. O'Connell) thought that the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, could really very well afford to put up with the censures of the men who had deserted from the Legion at St. Sebastian. The noble Lord's next observation was upon the Foreign Enlistment Act. One would think, that in discussing that Act, the right place to look for the principle of it
 1381 1382 H. Hardinge: H. Hardinge: Interruption. 1383 "During the Peninsular war, what was the universal system of the allies, but one of unmitigated cruelty? Was not every straggling Frenchman assassinated? Were not the prisoners of war often, after capitulation, murdered in cold blood by the Guerillas? Were not carriages of the wounded, and of women and children, waylaid and massacred? Were not French soldiers roasted alive by the Spaniards?" 1384 1385 1386
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he should be sorry to receive praise from such a quarter as Mr. Richardson's. If he was not mistaken, all the officers of his regiment refused to mess with him.
 Colonel Thompson  rose to say a few words in explanation, having been personally referred to in the course of the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny. There was certainly no mistake in the statement made by the hon. and learned Member, in reference to the order given at Buenos Ayres. He himself heard the order given, which was mentioned by the hon. and learned Member, and he would repeat it to the House, lest there should be any inaccuracy in the manner it had been understood. The order came down the column from the mouth of a field officer, who rode down the ranks on. a good Sunday morning, and who exclaimed, "Spare old men, women, and children; but every man who is able to bear arms, put him to the bayonet." These were the words in which the field-officer delivered the order, which he coupled with an addition, by way of a joke of his own, "Give them only three inches of it; it will be the more easily pulled out again." He could name the officer if he was asked; he was an officer of bright repute, who fell two hours after giving this order.
 Sir Edward Codrington  rose, and addressed the House in nearly the following terms: Sir, I rise to complain of a breach of the privilege of this House on the part of  The Morning Post 1307 The Courier
 Admiral Adam  could state in a very few words what he had said—
 The Speaker  suggested that unless the hon. and gallant Member rose to a point of order he could not be heard.
 Sir Edward Codrington : The next passage which I shall refer to, as given in The Morning Post, is, I believe, and I hope I can prove, not true. These words were imputed to the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland (Sir James Graham), and I hope I shall find, that the right hon. Baronet will admit that they were such as ought not to be, and were not, used by him, because they impute motives to me, which is a proceeding not warranted by Parliamentary usage. The right hon. Baronet is said to have declared, "I admit that I am responsible for having superseded the honourable and gallant officer, and that I did so because I would not listen to insinuations and charges which were made in such a manner as the insinuations and charges made to me were made." Now, allow me to say, that the origin of my referring this subject to the right hon. Gentleman was the complaints which were made to me by the men engaged in the battle of Navarino, who asked for some remuneration for their losses, &c. I remember that that gratuity was a long time before it was paid, the poor fellows having had all their clothes torn off their backs. But I complained, moreover, that these men, who had been in the battle, had neither pay nor anything else beyond this gratuity. I beard that others who were not in the battle shared amongst them two French crowns which had been obtained from the fishing up of guns. That report reached me,
 1308 "No. 23, York-terrace, April 14,1837. "Sir—It appears from the report of your speech in the House of Commons last night, as reported in The  Morning Post, 1309 "I am your most obedient servant, PULTENEY MALCOLM." "Admiral Sir E. Codrington."
 Sir James Graham  said, after what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down, the House would expect him to say a few words in reply. He would first address himself to that part of the subject, which related to Sir P. Malcolm, for it was in defence of his gallant Friend on a former evening that he was tempted to address the House. As he understood the hon. and gallant Officer, he now retracted every charge reflecting on the honour of Sir P. Malcolm. As he understood the hon. and gallant Officer, he said he had not used the words which certainly he had seen very generally reported in the newspapers, and, relying on his recollection, he thought they were what he heard. But since the hon. and gallant Officer had withdrawn them, he was bound to believe that he did not hear them,—namely, "that Sir P. Malcolm had spoken freely of him, and that what he had said was not true." The gallant Officer now denied having uttered those words, and after that denial he Sir J. Graham could not believe that he had done so. He was quite sure that such denial would be satisfactory to the country, to the House, and to his gallant Friend. The hon. and gallant Officer had said that he was most anxious to uphold the character of the profession to which he belonged. There could not be a more legitimate object, and he hoped this discussion might create that effect. He was sure of this, that the character of a British admiral could never be a matter of indifference to the representatives of the British people. It was of the last importance that a man who had stood, as Sir P. Malcolm had done, in that situation for half a century, should, notwithstanding that, have his honour vindicated, or else after his long services he might be rendered one of the most unhappy and wretched men alive. How stood the matter with regard to the two charges which had been brought forward by the hon. and gallant Member? Passing by the personal altercation between him and Sir P. Malcolm, and understanding, the first of those charges to be, that Sir P. Malcolm had allowed some of the guns that were lost during the battle of Navarino to be fished up and sold, and the produce to be shared as prize money, what was the exact meaning of the words "shared as prize-money?" Professional men in the House knew the meaning perfectly well. It was, that all officers, the
 1311 E. Codrington: 1312 E. Codrington: 1313 1314
 Sir Edward Codrington  hoped, notwithstanding the cheers which had accompanied the conclusion of the right hon. Baronet's speech, that he might be heard fairly, as soon as those cheers had subsided. He had stated most distinctly, that he did not wish to go further into this question; but whatever might be the consequences, either in or out of doors, he had endeavoured to do that which was just to Sir Pulteney Malcolm—to clear him from any imputation on his character, because he believed Sir P. Malcolm's word of honour. He was bound to say that the right hon. Baronet had made some most gross allusions which he ought not to have made. Being then at the head of the Admiralty, he ought to have known, the Asia came to England and had half her crew drafted. Statements were made to him by the people who had served under him in the battle, that others who had not been in the battle, had shared the money obtained from the sale of the guns as prize money. He would now correct the statement, believing, as he did, the word of Sir P. Malcolm. Did it, then, become the right hon. Baronet to taunt him? The right hon. Baronet had not directly answered the question which had been put to him. He would, then, distinctly ask him—had he used the words imputed to him or not? He would read them again.
 The Speaker  understood that exceptions were taken to particular expressions used
 1315
 Sir Edward Codrington  scarcely understood the position in which he stood. The right hon. Baronet had spoken generally, but he had not at all answered the question. What he, (Sir E. Codrington) wanted to know was, whether the right hon. Baronet had made use of these words or not. The Report stated him to have said, that "I admit that I am responsible for having Superseded the hon. and gallant Officer, and that I did so because I would not listen to insinuations and charges which were made in such a manner as the insinuations and charges made to me were made. Those who were fully competent to form a correct opinion of the conduct of Sir Pulteney Malcolm I consulted, and I now feel it my bounden duty to declare that I totally disbelieved the charges brought against him. Sir, had there been any foundation for these charges, might not Sir Pulteney Malcolm have been called upon to answer them before that tribunal to which he was amenable? He never was, and I therefore think it rather hard the hon. and gallant Officer should have attempted, for three years to whisper away his character without mentioning his name, until the hon. and gallant Officer found himself driven into a corner." Why, Sir, I believe that I have a character to sustain as well as Sir Pulteney Malcolm, and I think it very material that the House should allow me to make my statement; because the right hon. Gentleman has said further, according to the Report given, that he superseded me in the command of the fleet, and that he so superseded me on account of the insinuations which I had made against Sir Pulteney Malcolm. Now I beg at once to ask him whether he did so supersede me on the grounds so stated? I put a direct question, and, notwithstanding the cheerers, I trust the right hon. Baronet will give a direct answer.
 Sir James Graham  said, he had already told the hon. and gallant Officer, that he was not responsible for the correctness or incorrectness of any reports which might have appeared in the morning papers, but he would say they were generally accurate. The hon. and gallant Admiral had heard what he said on the occasion in question: be had the opportunity of calling him to
 1316
 Admiral Adam  said, that called upon as he had been by his hon. and gallant Friend, he could not refuse to say that the words which had been imputed to him he had not uttered. It was said, in the report of  The Morning Post
 Captain Dundas  considered, after what had taken place, the hon. Baronet opposite was bound to give some explanation of the language used by him. Had there been any attempt to whisper away the character of Sir P. Malcolm for three years he must have heard of it, and he would have been the first to call for an explanation from the gallant Admiral.
 Sir John Beresford  thought, that nothing could justify the expressions of his gallant Friend; but those words ought to have been explained at the moment. He rose, however, chiefly to state that which was his own, and he believed it was the feeling of all who knew Sir P. Malcolm, that the eulogiums which had been made on that gallant Officer's conduct had been such, as his character as an officer and a gentleman justly merited.
 Lord John Russell  thought this discussion should not close without some declaration from the Chair as to what were the rules of the House. The hon. and gallant Admiral had stated the words reported to have been said by the right hon. Gentleman, and had asked for an explanation of those words, making at the same time a statement which seemed to imply that con-
 1317
 The Speaker : Undoubtedly the course pursued by the hon. and gallant Officer is most irregular. This is the first time in my experience that any hon. Member has come down to the House with a newspaper, and, adverting to the material facts of a whole speech, endeavour to found upon them, questions applicable to the individual to whom the expressions were attributed, and put in a shape which would seem to imply allusions to ulterior consequences. That, I must say, is extending the rule greatly beyond anything I have ever seen in Parliament; and it would be most improper for the House to sanction any such proceeding. If any thing was said to which the hon. and gallant Officer wished to take exception, the exception should have been taken at the time. Under these circumstances, the House has a right to require an assurance from the hon. and gallant Officer, that no ulterior steps shall be taken in this matter.
 Sir Edward Codrington  expressed his readiness to say, that he did not hear the words of which he complained, and therefore he supposed that the right hon. Baronet did not use them. But seeing them in the newspaper, he had directed the right hon. Baronet's attention to them, and the right hon. Baronet would not deny that he had used them. If the right hon. Baronet would not deny them, what was the alternative? —either he denied them, or he adopted them.
 Sir Robert Inglis : The hon. and gallant Officer had the same opportunity as other Gentlemen in the House at the time of hearing the words if they were used. If the gallant Officer heard them, he ought to have noticed them at the time. If he did not hear them, I submit to you, Sir, and to the House, whether this discussion ought to proceed further. My right hon. Friend certainly can not be held responsible,
 1318
 Admiral Adam : It is, I think, impossible that the right hon. Baronet, (Sir J. Graham) could have meant to make use of the words in question, because, in point of fact, he was not in the Admiralty when the hon. and gallant Officer, (Sir E. Codrington) was recalled. The gallant Admiral was recalled on the 5th of June, 1828, when the Duke of Wellington was Prime Minister, and Lord Melville First Lord of the Admiralty.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  apprehended, that the gallant Admiral had no right to call upon the right hon. Baronet to say whether he denied or adopted the publication that had appeared in the newspaper, ft was clear, according to the rules of debate, that no member had a right to attack or make an insinuation against the character or honour of another. But if the gallant Officer objected to anything that had been said by the right hon. Baronet, he ought to have stated his objection at the time the words were used. It was contrary to all rule that he should take up the report of a newspaper, and then after a lapse of several days, come forward and take such a course as the gallant Admiral had done that evening. After the species of threat that had been thrown out, the House had certainly a right to call upon the gallant Officer to say that he did not intend to take any ulterior step. The House had a clear right to exercise that power, and it never had failed to do so when similar circumstances had arisen.
 Sir Robert Inglis : I move, Sir, that Sir Edward Codrington be desired to make the assurance which has been customary in this House on every similar occasion.
 Sir Edward Codrington : I move, as an Amendment, the Order of the Day.
 The Speaker : The gallant Officer has placed his demand on grounds which are altogether untenable. I conceive, no Member of this House is, or ought to be, held responsible for any report, in a newspaper, of what he may have said in his place in Parliament. That being the clear and undisputed rule of the House, I do not think the hon. and gallant Officer is
 1319
 Viscount Palmerston : If, after what has passed, the hon. and gallant Officer refuse to comply with the suggestion of the Chair and desire of the House, I believe the only course that can be followed, to prevent any ulterior steps, will be to move, that the gallant Officer be taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms. But I hope this will be unnecessary.
 Mr. Williams Wynn : The gallant Officer must know that the House has power, and most certainly will prevent any ulterior consequences. The gallant Officer may put off his acquiescence for a longer or a shorter time; but putting off compliance with the will of the House, cannot by any means prevent his ultimate adoption of the course which has been pointed out; he can only subject himself to inconvenience by standing out. I hope, therefore, he will at once perceive the propriety of complying with the wish that has been so generally expressed.
 Major Beauclerk : With great deference to the Chair and to the hon. Gentlemen who had expressed their opinions upon the subject, differed from them as to the propriety of the first concession coming from the hon. and gallant Admiral. At the same time he must say, that he could not justify what had fallen from the gallant Officer. He thought it a great pity, that the gallant Officer had made use of the observations that had that evening fallen from him. The House generally regretted them; and he was sure that the gallant Officer, on reflection, would regret them also. But he thought, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) who sat opposite, admitting, as he did, the general accuracy of the report, ought to have no hesitation, if he entertained the game wish and the same feeling as the House, to declare that, notwithstanding what was stated in that report, it was not his intention to say that the gallant Officer (Sir E. Codrington) had, for three years, endeavoured to whisper away the character of his gallant Brother in arms. The right hon. Baronet would see, that it was quite impossible for the gallant Officer to sit
 1320
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe : The gallant Admiral does not complain of that part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech in which he is reported to have said, that the gallant Admiral had, for three years, endeavoured to whisper away the character of Sir Pulteney Malcolm. The gallant Admiral's complaint is founded upon these words of the report: "I admit that I am responsible for having superseded the hon. and gallant Officer; and I did so, because I would not listen to insinuations and charges which were made in such a manner as the insinuations and charges made to me were made." These are the words that the gallant Admiral complains of. Now, I think, that the gallant Admiral puts upon these words a construction different from that intended by the right hon. Baronet. I think, that my right hon. Friend the Member for Cumberland (Sir J. Graham) would have used these words in speaking of the gallant Admiral's being superseded, even if
 1321
 Mr. Roebuck  thought it hardly worth while to discuss the point of privilege as regarded the publication of reports of the proceedings of that House. The fact was notorious, was every day permitted, and every day spoken of. What were they then doing? They were endeavouring, if they possibly could, to prevent any unworthy differences arising in the House of Commons. The gallant Officer said, that he did not hear certain expressions which were reported as coming on a former evening from the right hon. Baronet. The gallant Officer said, moreover, that he did not believe the right hon. Baronet to have used the expressions; but that, considering his own character, and knowing the weight attached by the country to the reports of what took place in that House, he felt bound, in justice to himself and in vindication of his honour, to ask the right hon. Baronet publicly, whether he had used the words or not? The right hon. Baronet replied, that the gallant Officer was in the House at the time, and ought to have heard the expressions, if they were used. The gallant Admiral answered, "I did not hear them." "Then," said the right hon. Baronet, "if you did not hear them, and if you found anything to complain of in the report, you ought to have mentioned it the next day, and not have deferred it to so late a period as the present." Now, if the right hon. Baronet would consider for a moment, he would see that there might have been circumstances to prevent the gallant Admiral from calling upon him for an explanation at the moment. He asked the right hon. Baronet and the House, whether it would not be as well, after all that had taken place, after hearing what had fallen from the gallant Admiral, that the right hon. Baronet should at once admit that he did not make use of the words in question, and thus prevent any other painful circumstance arising out of the dispute. Expressions had been used on both sides painful enough. It now remained for the right hon. Baronet to pay his quota of
 1322
 Mr. Charles Wood  was afraid, that the hon. and gallant Officer had put his question upon a ground on which the right hon. Baronet could not be called upon to answer. The question put by the hon. and gallant Officer, was this—"Why was I superseded?" Now, standing there in: some measure as the representative of the Admiralty, he (Mr. C. Wood) conceived that it was not fit for the gallant Officer nor for the House, to call upon the right hon. Baronet to say why he superseded any officer. That was the question that was put by the gallant Officer, and which he thought the right hon. Baronet was not called upon to answer. But at the same time, looking at the report in the newspaper, he must say that he could not, for a moment, believe it to be a correct representation of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, because it put into the right hon. Baronet's mouth the reason why he superseded the hon. and gallant Officer; and that he conceived the right hon. Baronet would never, for one moment, think of doing. Looking, too, at the context of the report, it was evident that what the right hon. Baronet meant to say, was this—that he had appointed Sir Pulteney Malcolm, because he did not believe that any charge existed against that gallant Officer's character; and that, having determined to supersede the hon. and gallant Admiral (Sir E. Codrington) for reasons which he (Mr. C. Wood) thought he ought not to explain, he appointed Sir P. Malcolm in his place, because, believing that gallant Officer perfectly competent to the situation, and not believing the charges that had been brought against him, he conceived him to be a fit and proper person to take command of the fleet previously commanded by the hon. and gallant Admiral (Sir E. Codrington). If that were the meaning of the right hon. Baronet, he thought that he ought to have no hesitation in stating so. If he did so, the only ground on which the hon. and gallant Officer had put the question, must at once fall to the ground. It was true that there was one other question a little involved; but as that was of a private rather than of a public kind, he should offer no opinion upon it. But he must say, that he agreed with the gallant Officer in this, that after the full satisfaction that
 1323
 Sir Edward Codrington : Before this matter proceeds further; Way I be allowed to ask Sir, has any Gentleman in this House a right to attribute motives or insinuations to another?
 The Speaker : No Member has a right to attribute motives to another. That is quite clean In the present instance I have been called on to express my opinion upon two propositions, both of which, according to the rules of the House, appear to me to be perfectly clear also. If the practice were once allowed to prevail, of calling for explanations of particular expressions used on preceding days, there would be no end of the disputes that Wight arise, that is my opinion upon the first proposition. Upon the second proposition, as to whether or not it is competent for a Gentleman to take up a newspaper and hold any other Gentleman in this House responsible for any report he may read there, I should think I acted Very improperly towards this House if I were' to give the slightest countenance to such a practice. On the contrary, I am bound to say, that no Member of this House ban be held responsible for any report of his speeches, made in Parlia-
 1324
 Sir Robert Peel : Of all the disputes I have ever heard arise in this House, I must say the present appears to me to have the least foundation in necessity; I sat next my right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham) when he made the speech in question on Thursday last. I understand the particular part of the speech of which the hon. and gallant Admiral complains to be this: he finds in   The Morning Post 1325
 Sir Edward Codrington : I am perfectly sure that the right hon. Baronet has expressed his honest sentiments; and I am satisfied that if words were attributed by him of an offensive nature to another Gentleman, he would have no hesitation to declare at once in a manly and straightforward manner whether he had used them or not. If there were a gentleman in the whole country who, taking up words attributed to me, came to me and complained of them as not being true, if I had never uttered those words I should be
 1326
 Lord John Russell : I took the liberty of calling upon you, Sir, to know what was to be considered as the rule of the House on occasions of this kind, and I must say that I am perfectly satisfied with the opinion which you stated to the House—that it was not for the convenience of the House that, after some days had elapsed, a Member who had been present in any particular debate should bring down to Parliament a news paper, and ask specially whether certain phrases stated in that newspaper were the phrases used by a Member of that House. I am quite satisfied that the rule you, Sir, have laid down is right, and that the opposite rule would tend to great inconvenience, and to endless disputes as to the use of particular words. As to the debate in question, I must add my testimony to that given by the right hon. Baronet opposite. I attended to the debate on that occasion, and I heard words uttered certainly in the heat of debate, but I did not hear anything that went beyond the rule of fair debate in this House, After the statement on the part of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) opposite, I think my hon. and gallant Friend (Sir E. Codrington) may fairly state that he is satisfied that nothing has been stated contrary to his honour.
 Sir Edward Codrington : I should certainly have been satisfied with what has been stated; but when I read the paragraph of which I complained, and the right hon. Baronet refused to contradict it, it is impossible for me to come to any other conclusion than that he adopts it.
 Sir Robert Peel : I beg to state that my object in coming forward was not in any way to defend my right hon. Friend, but merely to prevent the House from entertaining an erroneous impression as to
 1327
 Viscount Palmerston : Being present on the occasion, and paying attention to what was going forward, I feel myself bound to add my testimony to that of the right hon. Baronet and my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) as to what took place. The words particularly alluded to by the hon. and gallant Officer (Sir E. Codrington) certainly did not strike my ear, and I do not think they were used.
 Admiral Adam  was ready to confirm the noble Lord's impression. But the awkward part of the matter was this, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) had stated, that he agreed to the general correctness of the report. Now, to the general correctness he agreed also; but he was at the same time quite certain that there was a statement in the newspaper in question which was not correct, and he was certainly of opinion that the part of which his gallant Friend complained was incorrect.
 Mr. Leader  said, I think, Sir, that the only way to end the dispute will be to commit both the gallant Admiral and the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Robert Palmer  hoped, after what had been stated, that the gallant Admiral would give the required assurance that the matter should go no farther. (After a pause the hon. Gentleman continued). As the gallant Officer does not seem disposed to conform to the general wish of the House, one only course remains. I must therefore move that the gallant Officer be taken into the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
 The Speaker  said, the only way in which the Amendment can be put is to substitute the name of one Member for another.
 Mr. Curteis : Then I move that the name of Sir James Graham be substituted for that of Sir Edward Codrington.
 Mr. Roebuck  thought, with all deference to the Chair, that the words "and Sir James Graham" might be added to the Original Motion by way of Amendment.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey : I, Sir, have a
 1328
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that as he understood the Speaker had decided that the right hon. Member for Cumberland could not, according to the rules of the House, answer his interrogatory, and as he heard that the words alluded to had not been used, he should place himself in the hands of the House and fulfil its pleasure. He felt very strongly—hardly too strongly, he thought—for the honour of an officer of the navy ought not to be suspected. Nothing would ever induce him, no pains, no penalties, nothing that this House could do, to submit to the slightest imputation on his honour. Saying this, he should obey the House.
 The Speaker  trusted that the discussion would now terminate to the satisfaction of the gallant Admiral and the House. He was of opinion that it was not regular to refer to past debates for the purpose of obtaining any explanation of the nature of that sought this evening. And, further, he must say, that no Member was responsible for what passed in this House. No one could hold any Member responsible for expressions used in debate. He believed he stated the sentiments of the House when he said, that as the discussion had terminated it must be satisfactory to all parties. The entry on the journals in this case was as follows:—
 "Notice taken of a report of a debate of this House in   The Morning Post 1329
 Colonel Thompson  had spoken merely to facts within his own knowledge; and, God forbid, that he should speak to any Other, He certainly did hear the order he had mentioned, given; and he believed at the time, and now believed that the order had been sent in an official manner, down the column. Whether the order
 1388
 Colonel Thompson  said, that he was very willing to answer any questions of the hon. and gallant Officer, or of any other military man, which could throw a light on this subject. He had no wish to conceal anything, if the hon. and gallant Officer would address himself to him on the subject. After they got outside of the House, he would give him all the information in his power.
 Lord Francis Egerton  expressed his satisfaction at the compliments paid to his noble Friend (Lord Leveson), on making his first speech in Parliament, though he could not concur with him in thinking that he had made out a case respecting the success of the operations sanctioned by the noble Lord opposite, or the soundness of the policy by which they were directed. He would ask that noble Lord whether the policy on which he acted was similar to that of the noble Earl (Earl Grey) under whom he came into office? He would leave it to hon. Gentlemen opposite to say, whether the course which the noble Lord opposite had pursued with regard to Spain, was either sanctioned by Lord Grey or was consistent with his policy. He would contend that a contrary system was the policy, not only of Lord Grey, but, at a former time, of hon. Members who were now in power. When the Foreign Enlistment Bill came under discussion in 1819, he knew it was only a temporary measure, as an hon. Member suggested; but if it was only temporary, then that was an argument for the repeal of it. He would, however, to show what was the opinion of a noble Lord high in power, now read an extract from a speech made on the Foreign Enlistment Bill in 1823. The noble Lord to whom he alluded was then a Member of that House, and he expressed himself to the following effect:—"With respect to the proposition before the House, however, he begged to say, that neither upon any general or particular ground was he prepared to vote for the Repeal of the Foreign Enlistment Bill. He was aware that, in former times, it had been the fashion for Gentlemen of chivalrous character to make campaigns in the service of foreign princes, and that bodies of men had been raised in this
 1376 1377 1378 1379 1380
 Lord G. Somerset  thought the time was gone by, for the House to enter into any investigation, in regard to compliance or non-compliance with the standing orders. He did not wish to give encouragement to parties making factious opposition to Bills; and taking into consideration all the circumstances of the present case, he was prepared to vote for investigation, although he would oppose any attempt to introduce Mills's line again, or to retard the progress of the Bill for Stephenson's line. Fraud having been alleged, he considered the House bound to grant the Committee.
 Lord Leveson  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had considered it necessary to make an apology for addressing the House on this subject, how much more imperative was it on him (Lord Leveson) to do so. The question seemed to him to have been treated more as an instrument of party warfare than as a fair inquiry into what was due by this country to Spain and to the whole of Europe. What was it that the House was really called upon to consider? In issuing the order in council permitting English troops to enter into the service of the Queen, and in employing the royal marines in the same cause, had his Majesty's Ministers confined themselves within the limits prescribed by the Quadruple Treaty, or had they overstepped those limits. If their conduct had been consistent with the conditions of the Quadruple Treaty (and so he believed it to have been), that conduct they were bound to continue. He had himself, in the Chamber of Deputies in Paris, heard the liberal opposition to the government of Louis Philippe declare that the English had acquired the strongest claims to the gratitude of the Spanish nation. If his Majesty's Government, instead of taking the course which they had adopted, had said, "Let the parties in Spain fight it out; we will take no part in their proceedings," they might indeed have satisfied the Tories, but they would have incurred the condemnation of all
 1367
 Mr. C. Barclay  opposed the motion. The Committee were to go into all the evidence which had been brought forward in regard to Stephenson's line, the whole remaining portion of the Session would not be sufficient for the investigation; and yet it would be necessary to go through the whole, in order to establish whether fraud had or had not been practised. It It was said, too, that the investigation would not affect Stephenson's line, but if the Committee reported, that fraud had been practised, he would put it to the House whether they could allow the Bill for Stephenson's line to go on. Could the House send the clerks and agents to Newgate, and yet allow the Company, the parties profiting by the fraud, to proceed with their Bill? The thing was impossible. The truth was, that they were to look upon the matter as a dispute betwixt two rival companies, one of which having been thrown over by the House, now attempted to throw over the other; and if the House were to grant the Committee prayed for, how long, he would ask, would it be before they had petitions presented from other rival companies, praying for similar Committees? In every case they would have disappointed parties looking out for small departures from the standing orders, and thus offering vexatious opposition to every undertaking. In the present case, the deviations were small, and he thought, therefore, it would be better to refuse the Committee, than establish a precedent which might be attended with the worst consequences as regarded the transaction of business by the House. He had been favourable to the Committee, but the opinion which had been expressed by the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, had convinced him that it would be wise to refuse the prayer of the petition, as from that opinion he had been persuaded of the danger of the precedent which would be created, were they to comply with the petition for investigation.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  could not see how Stephenson's line could go on, were the
 1304
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was afraid, that owing to the great importance of this railway, and in consequence of the excitement which had been produced on this question, hon. Gentlemen might be apt to look at it merely with reference to this particular Brighton railway, and not, as he was disposed to regard it, with reference to the future proceedings of that House. They would do well, in his opinion, to consider, before they established a precedent of this nature; for if he were not much mistaken, in no case had a Select Committee of Inquiry been appointed, either when the Bill had passed the second reading, or been before a Committee. But he found from the petitions on the table, from which he had carefully endeavoured to make himself acquainted with the merits of this case, that Mr. Mills made certain allegations respecting the conduct of agents on Stephenson's line; but he did not show that, at the time when these questions were dealt with by the Committee, he was not cognisant of the practices himself, and therefore the House was called to afford this Committee to inquire into false evidence, of which he was cognisant at the time the Bill was before the Committee; or of which, at least, he did not show that he was not cognisant. If the House were to yield on this occasion, there would be nothing to prevent any parties from trumping up a petition for a Select Committee upon every recurrence of a case at all similar to the present. There was another point well worthy the consideration of the House, viz., whether it would be possible for them to sanction further proceedings on the part of the promoters of Stephen son's line, in case the Committee asked for were to report, that the initiative of their Bill had been obtained on false grounds? If this Committee were appointed, there would be nothing to prevent the time of the House from being occupied, day after day, with petitions of a similar prayer. Let it be considered also; that all that could be done by the Select Committee would be, to inquire whether the allegations of the petitioner
 1305
 Mr. Charles Wood , although at that
 1368 1369 1370 1371 1372 "A detachment of marines under Col. Douglas, Lieut.-Col. Bromley, Captains Winter and Trotte, and Mr. Thomas Smith, midshipman of the Tigre, accompanied an advanced body of the army of the Grand Vizier from Gaza to El Arish. The cheerful manner in which the detachment from the British squadron performed their duty, exposed as they were on the desert without tents, very ill fed, and with only brackish water to drink, gained them the admiration of the whole Ottoman army." "Foudroyant, Naples Bay, July 13,1779. "My Lord — Captains Troubridge and Hallowell, with 1,000 of the best men landed from the squadron, united with 4,000 other troops of various denominations, march against Capua to-morrow morning. "I have, &c., (Signed) "NELSON. Right hon. Lord Keith, R. B." 1373 "Captain West sallied from the citadel of Rosas at the head of 250 seamen and marines of the Excellent, bat were obliged, after succeeding in their object of rescuing the Mequelits, by the superior force of the French especially in cavalry, to retire. Capt. West had a horse shot under him." "The Major-general still declining to act, until the arrival of an expected reinforcement of 2,000 men from Gibraltar, Lord Hood took on board that proportion of land forces which had originally been ordered to serve on board the fleet as marines; and obtaining also two officers and twenty privates of artillery, with some ordnance stores and intrenching tools, under command of Captain Wilson, who had acquired from the army the title of brigadier, took the town after a long siege." 1374 1375
 Sir H. Hardinge  explained, that so far from his having made or intended any attack upon Colonel O'Connell, or the 10th regiment, he had simply repeated a statement verbatim, for which he had given his authority. Neither did Mr. Richardson himself make any attack on Colonel O'Connell: on the contrary, he gave him great credit for his conduct, and stated, that the insubordination in his regiment arose from the absence of their colonel.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  did not feel that it was necessary for him to apologize to the House on that occasion for occupying its time in calling its attention to the state of affairs in the north of Spain, and also to the manner in which his Majesty's Government was involved in the transactions that had recently occurred there. He considered it necessary that this subject should be brought before the notice of the House, and he also thought that this should be done without further delay, and he felt that no apology was called for from him for doing so beyond that which was necessary for the inadequate manner in which he should perform the task he had taken upon himself. He would not discuss the question as to the propriety or impropriety of entering in the Quadripartite Treaty, or of the additional articles to that Treaty, because his noble Friend the Member for Hertford, and other Members on that side of the House, had already called the attention of the House to the subject with much greater ability than he could pretend to; and he had no doubt they would on that occasion say all that was necessary on that part of the subject. But the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had never attempted to justify the intervention that had taken place in the affairs of the north of Spain, on the plea that it was called for by the stipulations of that treaty; nor had he said that the order in council was required by the Quadripartite Treaty, or by the additional articles. The noble Lord, he repeated, had never asserted that the proceedings that had taken place with reference to the legion grew out of the Quadripartite Treaty. He therefore said, that the noble Lord and the Government, in issuing their order in council, pursued a course which was not involved in the ques-
 1330 1331 1332 1333 1334 1335 reconnoissance! 1336 1337 1338 El Monte de los Ingleses 1339 1340 "The beginning of August was the termination of the year of service of many of the men of the Legion, and more particularly of the Scotch regiments, the 6th and 8th. The 8th had previously mutinied for want of pay, which step they found successful in obtaining it, although it had been pretended there was no money whatever in the military chest. "Their conduct was considered so refractory, that it was deemed prudent to get them out of the way altogether; and some troops being required at Santander, where Gomez had made his appearance, they were driven on board for that destination, literally at the point of the bayonet, by the 9th Irish. While at Santander, their conduct did not improve: they sold their necessaries in every part of the town, and were constantly inebriated with the proceeds. Their original insubordination had been caused solely by a violation on the part of the lieutenant-general, of the terms under which they had engaged in the service. "The 6th, among whom insobriety was of rare occurrence, were also infinitely more determined. The regiment having vainly demanded a release from the service, in consequence of their having fulfilled the year of contract for which they had been engaged, refused to obey their officers: accordingly they were marched upon the glacis of the town, for the purpose of being disarmed. About 300 returned to their duty, after a sharp lecture from Brigadier-General Shaw; the remainder (about 300 also) were sent to the Castle of St. Sebastian, in the expectation that their resistance would be thereby subdued. General Evans was obliged eventually to acknowledge their claims to retirement, and to send them home. "The 6th were much condemned for insisting upon their right of retirement. The 10th Irish regiment, which had been the first to
 1341 "Voilà les Anglais!" 1342 "Colonel Churchill gives his reasons for resigning the command of the Westminster. Guards. After the meeting of the superior, officers of the Legion, early in December, it appeared to me obvious that there was no prospect of any amelioration in our affairs. With an empty chest, and close run for rations, my heart revolted at the idea of a recurrence of the horrors and disasters of last winter at Vittoria. In the next place, it was evident that the officers had not that control over their men which is indispensable for the well-being of an army. The soldiers had so much ground for complaint, and the nature of the service was such, that subordination seemed almost at an end. Could my longer continuance in the Legion have been of any practical benefit to those who naturally looked up to me for support, I would never have left the brave men I had the honour to command, in whose sufferings I sympathised, and in. whose glories I participated. For these reasons my principles as a British officer, and my pride as an independent Englishman, made me feel that the time for endurance had been passed. I resolved to submit to such a state of things no longer. When the taint of indiscipline and disorganization has once affected an army, it is not the cry of victory that will destroy its fatal consequences. Let justice be done to our countrymen. They ask no more. That will have more effect on them than twenty victories." The letter was signed "C. CHURCHILL, Late Colonel Westminster Guards." 1343 1344 Monthly Repository "The spirit with which the British Legion entered into action on the 5th of May, may be gathered from the verbatim addresses of the commanding officers to the regiments under their command. 'Rifles!' said the major, who in the absence of Baron de Rottenburgh, commanded that regiment, ' we are going to be engaged to-morrow: the enemy shows no quarter, neither shall we; skiver every man you catch; take no prisoners; show no pity to the wounded; skiver every man you meet!' 'Men!' said the gallant colonel of the 4th regiment, 'now, we will have no nonsense; no firing behind walls;—fix bayonets, walk into them, and skewer the scoundrels." "A heavy cannonade was opened by the Phoenix upon the enemy's battery, on the left of their position, which the 1st Brigade had attempted, ineffectually, to carry. By this fire a breach was effected; and the 4th and 8th (reserve) coming up, the left of the position was stormed and gained. The Carlists, thun-
 1345 1346 1347 1348 "Article 1. His Majesty the King of the French engages to adopt such measures on the frontiers of his states as may prevent the Spanish insurgents from receiving from the French territory any kind of assistance so ever, whether in arms, men, or munitions of war. Articles 2. His Majesty the King of Great Britain and Ireland engages to supply her Catholic Majesty with such arms and munitions of war as she may stand in need of; and, moreover, if necessary, to assist her Catholic Majesty by the use of a naval force." 1349 cordon militaire? 1350 1351 1352 1353
 Sir Henry Hardinge  inquired, whether there was any other officer living who heard the order given, the officer who gave it being dead?
 Mr. Fazakerley  brought up a special report from this Committee, which was read at the table by the clerk, and which purported that the Committee, had felt bound to report specially to the House that parts of the evidence and documents which had been produced before the Committee, and which had not yet been presented to the House, had appeared in  The True Sun
 Mr. Fazakerley  said, that he presumed the House would be desirous to take some time to consider the subject to which the report referred; and that he thought he should best consult the interests of the case by simply moving on the present occasion that the Report be printed with the votes, and taken into consideration to-morrow.
 Mr. Greene  wished to rescue the House from a difficult position in which it would have been placed, had they consented to the original motion. It was against the practice of the House to enter into any investigation in regard to the standing orders, after the second reading of any Bill, and he thought the House would act most justly by adhering to the rules which it had laid down. Now, as the motion was framed, the Committee would have had to inquire whether the standing orders had or had not been complied with, and it was for that reason he had wished the discussion should be postponed.
 Sir Charles Vere  said, that he must confess that he had stated rather abruptly, in the course of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny's speech, that that
 1387
 Captain Pechell  would vote for a Committee, as he was persuaded it was not the object of the hon. Member for Sussex to attempt, by a side wind, to throw out Stephenson's line, or to procure the reintroduction of Mills's line.
 Sir Stratford Canning , in rising to second the motion which had been read to the House, could not but express that which was the general sentiment of the House—it was, to thank his right hon. and gallant Friend, for having brought under their notice this very important subject; and he thought that the House would feel with him, that justice had been done to this interesting and important question, and that his right hon. and gallant Friend had laid before them ample grounds for giving to it the attention that it deserved. In so doing, his right hon. and gallant Friend had done credit to that professional character which he had so long maintained, and to that branch of the public service of which he was so great an ornament. That the subject was a most important one, it was not necessary for him (Sir Stratford Canning) to repeat —it was one which was so connected with the interests of this country, and those, too, of the deepest consequence—it was also one that affected their national character, and their national honour. His gallant Friend had justly said, that he had performed his duty in bringing this subject under the notice of the House. The fact was, that from the time that the foreign legion had been first raised, from the time that the order in council had been issued by his Majesty, that Act had been questioned; and in proportion as the country beheld the consequences that followed, it had increased its anxiety that that Act of the Government should be brought under the notice of the House, and this with the wish that it should be reconsidered. He said, then, that his right hon. and gallant Friend had performed a duty for which he justly deserved their acknowledgments—this he had done, in having brought the subject so ably, so feelingly, and with so much effect, under the notice of the House. Briefly, then, as the subject would allow, he would address the House. He was sure he was inadequate to such a task, or to merit their attention; but he knew that he could rely upon the indulgence which he had, upon more than one occasion, experienced from the goodness of the House. It was not upon that part of the subject which had been immediately under consideration —that which was connected with the
 1354 de facto de facto,  1355 Lord J. Russell. 1356 1357 casus fæderies 1358 animus 1359 1360 1361 1362 1363 1364 1365 1366
 Mr. Henry Lytton Bulwer  had many things on which to compliment the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down—on the lessons he had given in courtly manners, on the length to which he had been able to protract the subject in debate, but more especially on the opportunity which he had at last found of Celebrating his countrymen's defeat. As to the right hon. and gallant Gentleman who brought forward the motion, he did justice to his talents and his character, but he still thought he was placed in an unhappy positions when he had to prove a national disgrace, in order to obtain a political triumph, and when there would also be many who would think that on this occasion life had been too ready to Wake the ruined reputation of his brethren in arms a stepping-stone to party purposes. [Sir  H. Hardinge: 1412 1413 "With regard to your queries relative to the command of the Legion in connexion with the punishments which took place in it, I know that the opinion of many superior officers', and those of experience, was, that if he erred in any manner, respecting punishments, it Was not in the severity, But in his disposition at all times to carry his pardon too far;" "Never was a general so beloved, indeed I might almost say idolised, by those under his command both officers and soldiers, as General Evans is; and his intrepidity in danger and cool foresight in action, are the admiration of us all." 1414 1415 1416 1417
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, the hon. Gentle-
 1418
 Mr. H. L. Bulwer  must repeat, he did think that in making a motion at this moment for the recal of the officers of the Legion the hon. and gallant Officer opposite was inflicting disgrace on them. He also thought, and he believed a similar opinion was entertained by the country, that the effect of the observations of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, as to the conduct of the officers under General Evans, was more or less to cast an imputation on the character of his hon. and gallant Friend.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, it appeared to him impossible for any man who could read or hear, to mistake the effect of the motion of his hon. and gallant Friend. If, as was alleged, it had reference to the recal of General Evans, it could only anticipate that event by a few days, inasmuch as, according to the communication of that hon. and gallant Officer to his constituents, it was his intention to be with them on the 10th of June. The object of his hon. and gallant Friend was to obtain the recal of the marines, and to pray his Majesty not to renew the Order in Council for the suspension of the Foreign Enlistment Act. Incidentally the motion of his hon.
 1419 1420
 Mr. Ward  thought, that the debate
 1421 1422 1423 1424 1425 H. Hardinge 1426 1427 "No, no" 1428
 Lord Mahon  spoke as follows: * * 1429 "It has been suggested, Sir, that we should, at once, ship off the Spanish refugees in this country to Spain; and that we should, by the repeal of the Foreign Enlistment Act, let loose into the contest all the ardent and irregular spirits of the country. Sir, this is the very suggestion which I have anticipated with apprehension in the present unquiet state of men's minds in Europe. All such expedients I disclaim, and I deplore and dread the employment of them." 1430 1431 1432 1433 bellum plusquam civile 1434 l 1435 ordinanza 1436 1437 1438
 Mr. Ward  rose to explain, in consequence of some of the arguments which had fallen from the noble Lord opposite. He begged to recal the attention of the House to what he had said. He had not cast any imputation on the Duke Of Wellington. He had said, indeed, that even in civilised warfare there might be cases in which the  lex talionis
 Dr. Lushington  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had maintained that our interference in the cause of the Queen and Constitution of Spain Was not authorised in any way by the Quadruple Treaty. He rose to address a few words to the House, because they might be induced, by the arguments of the right hon. and gallant Officer, and of the noble Lord, to believe that the interpretation which had been put Upon that treaty had not been such as was consistent with the true spirit and just construction of that treaty. He felt some surprise when the noble Lord stated, that the Duke Of Wellington had put the narrowest construction upon the terms of that treaty, but he was not aware that his Grace, to whose opinion he paid the greatest deference, had given that opinion upon a cool consideration of the treaty, nor was he aware that his Grace had ever given art opinion that the treaty would not bear any Other interpretation. He admitted that it was to the additional articles that more particular
 1439 1440 The Gazette. 1441 1442 1443 1444
 Mr. G. Price  said, that his opinions with respect to the Spanish question were well known, as he had never shrunk from avowing them. In anything that he intended to offer with respect to the present motion, it was not his intention to enter into any argument touching the respective merits or claims of the conflicting parties who were now contending for the Throne of Spain. Neither did he intend to enter into any recital or comparison of the atrocities that were countenanced or committed on either side. It was not his intention to enter into any part of this question, which more particularly interested the conflicting parties themselves. He had not to deal with the present question as a Spanish question, but as a British question—as a question which concerned the honour, the character, and the interests of the British empire—he would treat this question upon broad and comprehensive grounds. He did not want or wish to enter into any criticism upon the military operations carried on by the British Auxiliary force. It was not his intention to discuss whether the commander of that force had displayed the talents that ought to distinguish a military commander, or whether he had committed mistakes. He was neither capable nor inclined to discuss any question of individual conduct with respect to the operations in Spain, and he had no disposition to say anything of the conduct of an hon. Member who was absent. It had always been his wish to avoid speaking of an absent Member, and he had never done so in any instance when he saw a prospect of being afforded the opportunity of meeting him front to front. The question, as he
 1445 1446 1447 1448
 Mr. Shell : I hope the hon. and learned Member will permit me without giving him offence, to say, that if he had been born in
 1449 auto da fê 1450 1451 1452 1453 1454 "Per mare per terram", Cheers from the Opposition. 1455 1456
 Sir Henry Hardinge  rose to explain:— The House would recollect that in tracing the misfortunes of the Legion to that defeat which they had finally experienced he uniformly attributed that result to the treatment which they received from the Spanish government. He had on various occasions stated not only that General Evans had taken every opportunity of remonstrating against this treatment, but that he had on every occasion conducted himself in the most honourable manner, and as it became a gallant Officer to do. He had also stated, that the men forming the Legion had often maintained the gallantry of their countrymen. But he had also stated, that broken down as the Legion were by misfortune, and latterly disorganised by a mutinous spirit, they no longer constituted a force capable of representing the gallantry of this country. He had also mentioned the fact, that Colonel Churchill had declared, that the cause of his leaving the Legion was the insubordination of the men, solely owing to the want of pay. He would appeal then to the House, and to the country, whether—[ Cries of spoke. 1457
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the only words of the right hon. and gallant Officer which he had caught were, that he (Mr. Sheil) had treated the gallant officer with great injustice. If he had done so he was unconscious of it, and was extremely sorry for it. But he would put it to the House whether he had said more than it was perfectly fair in a political opponent to do? If the right hon. and gallant Gentleman would permit him to say as much, he believed him to be incapable of misrepresenting any man; and he believed that there was not any man in the House actuated by a higher sense of honour than the right hon. and gallant Officer.
 Sir John Elley  then rose to address the House, but he was very indistinctly heard in the gallery. We understood him to say, that after the eloquent speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, it was not his intention to trespass long upon the patience of the House. He however, was anxious to take a different view of the subject from that which had hitherto been taken of it by any hon. Member who had preceded him. Owing to an infelicitous combination of circumstances, the services rendered by the British Auxiliary Legion had been of little advantage to the Queen of Spain, and that from the continuance of those services as little advantage might be expected. At the same time he would, however, assert his belief, that General Evans had done as much as, out of the materials which he had to deal with, he could be expected to effect. The hon. and gallant Gentleman then went through a review of the various military operations which have taken place in Spain since the arrival of the British Auxiliary Legion at St. Sebastian; but the hon. and gallant Gentleman spoke in so indistinct a tone, that we were unable to follow him through the details. In continuation the hon. Gentleman observed, that the British Auxiliary Legion was defective in discipline, and possessed none of the attributes of a regular British force. General Evans had not only experienced much ill treatment from the Spaniards, but he had been deserted by some of his friends, even in this country. No general could depend
 1458 l. l. 1459 1460
 Lord John Russell  rose to bring under the notice of the House a question regarding its privileges, which he felt to be of very great importance, and which ought to be decided after the most mature consideration. If the publication of the Report of the Poor-law Committee had merely referred to such a breach of the privileges of that House as had on former occasions been committed, he should not have hesitated to proceed according to the forms and practice of the House; and in order to state what that practice was, he should merely refer to the last resolution of the House upon that subject, dated May 1832, and on which, after various proceedings relative to the evidence given before a Select Committee, which had been printed in a Dublin newspaper, it was resolved that Mr. Sheehan, who had been examined before the Committee, had been guilty of a high breach of privilege, and an order was made that he should be committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms. He should not bring that case under the consideration of
 1392 The True Sun  The True Sun,
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to the proposal of the hon. Member, and would move, that the consideration of the subject be postponed to Thursday next.
 Lord John Russell  said, the hon. Member had taken the course which he had expected he would take, and had disavowed his intention to hide himself under any printer or publisher's name. He thought that as the hon. Member was a Member of the Committee, and as the publication in question had not taken place through the interference of any editor of a newspaper, or of any printer, who had by some connivance or by indirect means obtained possession of the evidence taken before the Committee, but was 'published under the sanction of a Member of the Committee itself, he should not ask the House at the present moment to come to a decision on the question. He had made up his mind as to the course he ought to pursue on such an occasion, but that course he should propose to-morrow; and he should propose to defer the consideration of the question till to-morrow, in order that Members of that House should have an opportunity of reflecting in their own minds whether the course he proposed was consonant with the privileges of the House, and conducive to the interests of the public, or whether any other course ought to be adopted to produce those effects. The motion, then, which he should propose to-morrow, if the House would consent to postpone the consideration of the question till then, was—" That, according to the undoubted privileges of this House, and in order to afford due protection to the public interests, the evidence taken by any Select Committee of this House and the documents presented to such Committee, and which have not been reported to the House, ought not to be published by any Member of such Committee, or by any other person." He would not now enter into the argument for the support of that resolution—he would state it to-morrow. But if that resolution were entered into by the House, it would be seen that after such a declaration of its opinions it would be the duty of every Member of that House and of any Select Committee to conform to such a resolution. He moved, therefore,
 1394
 Mr. Harvey  gathered from the noble Lord's statement, that he was solicitous that the discussion of this truly important subject should be deferred. He trusted that the noble Lord would postpone it till Thursday, because it was of infinite importance that every hon. Member should give the resolution proposed by the noble Lord his serious attention, and it might so happen, that the debate of to-night would run so much into to-morrow as to make it doubtful whether there would be a House to-morrow; and it was not at all improbable that some hon. Members might wish to move an amendment on the resolution, of which notice would be required, and which might demand consideration.
 Mr. Harvey  said, confining himself for the present to the mere question which had been put to him by the noble Lord, and reserving any observations which he might feel it incumbent upon him to make when the noble Lord should have submitted his resolutions to the House, he could have no hesitation whatever in stating, that no man would feel more ashamed than he should in seeking protection behind the backs of either printer or publisher. He did avow himself, as the law had already called on
 1393
 Sir Henry Hardinye  wished to say a few words in explanation. What the hon. Gentleman had stated to the House could call forth nothing but sympathy on the part of all, and he should be most happy if anything he could say would give the hon. Gentleman satisfaction. The House must be aware that when he (Sir Henry Hardinge) made his statement he cautiously abstained pledging himself to the accuracy of that statement. He mentioned as his authority the name of Major Richardson. He had made inquiry as to the character of that officer, and the result was of such a nature as to justify him  primâ facie 13 Explain, explain!"
 Captain Curteis  rose to order. He really thought that the gallant Officer ought to give some explanation as to the word "presumptuous," which he had applied to an hon. Member of that House.
 Mr. Bingham W. Baring  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had very dexterously evaded the attack which had been made upon the foreign policy of the present Ministry to which he belonged. The real question now before the House was, whether this country had a right to interfere in the domestic affairs of foreign countries. The treaty of Quadruple Alliance had engaged us to afford certain assistance to the Government of Spain. The question now was, whether we were to stand by the letter of that treaty, or go beyond it, and afford other assistance than was therein provided for. The hon. and learned Member for Bath said, that it was the Tories who first set up the principle of the right of England to interfere in the domestic policy of neighbouring states. He entertained an opinion the reverse of that. Mr. Pitt never agreed
 37 de facto, 38
 Sir William Follelt  said: Sir, it was not my intention to have at all troubled the House upon this occasion, and I and induced to do so more from what has fallen from my right hon. and learned Friend opposite (Mr. C. Fergusson) in the course of this debate, than from any desire to take a part in the discussion; but, however, Sir, I Will venture shortly to trouble the House with the reasons which induce me to give my vote for the motion of my right hon. and gallant Friend (Sir H. Hardinge.) The hon. and learned Member who has just sat down, has repeated the assertion which has been made by every hon. Member who has Spoken On the other side of the House, that this question has been made a mere party question. I know how easy it is to make that assertion, and I was quite satisfied that it would be cheered by the hon. Members opposite. It may be very politic to make that assertion with a view to influence the fate of a division; but I am perfectly satisfied, that if the hon. and learned Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) had taken the trouble to converse with persons out of this House, he would have discovered that, however we may be split into parties, and however we may differ on questions of domestic policy, and of changes in the institutions of the country, it is the strong and general opinion of the people of this country, that our late policy has wasted the blood and treasure of England—that the quarrel is one in which the people of England have no concern, and relates to objects with Which the national interests and honour are in no way connected, I have listened most attentively to the Course of this debate. I felt a strong interest it the question, long before my right hon. and gallant Friend brought it forward. I have been most anxious to hear-the opinions of some Members of his Majesty's Government on this subject. Some Mem-
 47 48 49 50 C. Fergusson 51 52 C. Fergusson 53 54 55 56 57 58 59
 Mr. Morgan O'Connell  rose to order. He wished to know whether it was orderly for any hon. Member to say, that any person had been wickedly calumniated by another hon. Member.
 Captain Boldero  said, if he had used any expression that was offensive, and contrary to the rule of debate, he most cheerfully retracted it. The hon. and learned Member declared that Major Richardson was dismissed the service of the Queen of Spain, and that his character was such that the officers of the Legion refused to associate with him. It was very true that the officers of the 6th regiment wrote a letter conveying the sentiments of those officers to Major Richardson. The facts were these:—Major, then Captain, Richardson, was wounded on the 5th of May in Spain, and be returned to England on sick leave. When in England he published a narrative of the proceedings which had taken place in Spain. On his return to Spain, the officers of the 6th regiment considered that he had reflected on their character in his narrative, and they wrote a letter desiring him to retract the accusations he had made. Captain Richardson immediately wrote to General Evans, demanding a court-martial, either upon himself or upon the officers who wrote the letter. Some time elapsed, but at last a court of inquiry was held upon Captain Richardson's conduct. Captain Richardson, after the action of the 5th of May, felt aggrieved because he was passed over in the promotions, while a junior captain received the rank of major. The court of inquiry assembled on the 30th of June, 1836, upon charges against the captain, one of which he had never heard of until he returned from England. One was the having written the pamphlet in England speaking in terms not very flattering towards the Legion; and the other was, that on the 5th of May, he received a wound in the field, which was very trifling, but that, notwithstanding, he went to the rear. The hon. Member, to prove that the wound
 17 18
 Captain Boldero  said, it was his intention last night to have stated that Major Richardson had been most wantonly, outrageously, and wickedly calumniated by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny.
 Mr. Otway Cave  resumed, by reading the following letter from General Shaw:—
 "Reform Club, April 18. "Dear Sir—In  The Morning Chronicle The Monthly Repository "I do not pretend to be a friend of General Evans, because I do not think he behaved to me as he ought to have done; but that is matter of opinion, and I shall now go to matter of fact, not only to do justice to that very brave man, but to ward off the obloquy which is attempted to be thrown by these publications on the brave and gallant body of men under his command, many of whom mainly contributed to the establishment of constitutional freedom in Portugal. "Sir Henry looks upon us as mercenaries. If Sir Henry means we all fought for money, I deny it. We commenced fighting for those principles of constitutional liberty which before long must rule the world; and I venture to say, that in one campaign in the Peninsula, Sir Henry received more money than I have during the last six years, although I was always in command of a regiment or brigade. But now to facts. Major Richardson, in  The Chronicle 5 "Sir Henry, by the report, in speaking of the sufferings of the Legion at Trevino, says, that while he commanded a brigade there he did not lose a man. "Was not the Peninsular army at Vittoria the  élite "I commanded the Irish brigade when they marched from Vittoria, in April, 1836, 1,875 strong, and they landed in St. Sebastian, from Santander, 1,872, losing three men, not having one complaint against them from the inhabitants during that long march; and at Velorado the junta of the town thanked the officers and men of the 4th and 8th regiments for their good conduct. "It is not true, that the 10th Irish regiment offered to fire on a Scotch regiment. "It is not true that the 8th Scotch regiment were put on board boats (to go in pursuit of Gomez) by the bayonets of the 9th Irish. I was present with Lord John Hay and Colonel Wylde, and, if my memory does not fail me, Major Richardson was in St. Sebastian that day. "The fact is, the Scotch would not embark without their pay, but said they were ready to go any where if paid. The Irish said they were ready to go whether they were paid or not. "Both regiments embarked; but it is not true they were marched through a line of Spanish troops. The Spanish Guards at the gates turned out as a compliment, and this compliment, Sir, is thus shamefully taken notice of to make it appear a disgrace. The Scotch, who said their year of service was finished, were not marched as prisoners to the castle of St. Sebastian. As to the 10th Irish regiment threatening to go over to Don Carlos, it is so absolutely ridiculous, that the writer must have been listening to the conversation of some drunken fellows while spending their four dollars each. "Now, as to our characters, as officers and men, being unhumanised by this horrible war, I shall refer solely to the points mentioned in the report of  The Morning Chronicle The Monthly Repository 6 "The Report in  The Morning Chronicle 7 animus I am, dear Sir, yours faithfully, CHARLES SHAW." "R Otway Cave, Esq., M. P." "P. S. Some excuse may, perhaps, be allowed for the inaccuracies mentioned by Major Richardson, as to the conduct of the men on the 5th of May, as in the early part of the day having received a contusion in the arm he left the field and remained in St. Sebastian till the fight was over. My authority for stating this, were different officers who saw him in town, but I myself did not see him, not returning till the evening of the 6th to St. Sebastian. I omitted to give you an idea of the style of men of which the Legion was composed. The bounty given to them was 2 l. s 8 l. 9 l. l. 10 The Standard "And now we must say a word to two highly respected contemporaries, which have, this morning, rather severely reproved our opinions with respect to Don Carlos and his brutal Durango decree. We call the decree brutal, and its author a monster, unfit to live; because, though we see no use in exaggerated language, when the matter in hand is to deal with murder and a murderer, we will never mince our phraseology. Both the respected contemporaries whose displeasure we have incurred seem to go a great deal too fast in assuming that Don Carlos is entitled to exercise royal rights. Of what country is he king? Spain does not acknowledge him. No nation of Europe acknowledges him king of Spain. The Basque provinces, of part of which he holds military occupation—we are not concerned to deny, that he holds it with the consent of the people—the Basque provinces have never yet been recognised to constitute a separate state. Don Carlos and his followers are, therefore, whatever may be his title, in the condition of  de facto de facto 11 de facto de facto The Morning Post Morning Herald de facto de facto de facto Gore-moistened trees shall perish in the bud, And, by abloody death, shall die the man of blood." 12
 Mr. Otway cave  was understood to express his full concurrence in the speech of the hon. Member for Marylebone (Mr. Henry Bulwer.) Most gratifying indeed would it be to the feelings of the gallant Officer, General Evans, when he should read the speech of the hon. Member, conveying as it did, in the most handsome terms, an approval and defence of the gallant Officer. He did not mean to state that such was the intention, but most assuredly the effect of this motion was, to smooth the way for the party of Don Carlos, and the cheers which had been given by hon. Gentlemen opposite when certain assertions or allusions were made went far to prove that such was the case. Yes, this motion could only have the effect of smoothing the way for the Carlist party; and this object could only be gained by endangering, or rather ruining, the reputation and character of the British soldiers who were employed in the cause of the Queen of Spain. By ruining the fame and military character of General Evans (for whatever might be said by hon. Gentlemen opposite, the course they pursued tended to this object), and by taking from him, moreover, the
 3 4
 Lord John Russell : Sir, at this late hour of the morning I shall not detain the House for more than a very few minutes; but I cannot omit adverting to a question which has been several times asked in the course of this debate, but which does not appear to me to hare been answered in any explanation which the right hon. Gentleman has attempted to give upon one part of the question under discussion. I mean, Sir, the question why it is that this particular time should have been selected? Yes, Sir, I repeat, why is it that this particular time should have been selected for this discussion? Why was it not brought forward at an earlier period of the Session? It was known that the night before Christmas-day an action had been fought at Bilboa; and that action furnished hon. Members opposite with precisely the same arguments, because it was attended with the same circumstances as the cases which they have relied upon in this debate. The English marines took a part in that action, and the part they took was against the Basques—fighting, as the right hon. Baronet contends, for their liberties. Be that as it may, certain it is, that our seamen were engaged, assisting with our boats, manning batteries, working guns, and performing all the necessary operations of a war. The Parliament assembled on the 31st of January, and the Speech from the Throne, with which it was opened, after expressing his Majesty's regret at the continuance of the civil war in Spain, spoke of the events which were going on at Bilboa. The passage was this;—"His Majesty has continued to afford to the Queen of Spain that aid, which, by the treaty of Quadruple Alliance of 1834, his Majesty engaged to give if it should become necessary; and his Majesty rejoices that his co-operating force has rendered useful assistance to the troops of her Catholic Majesty." Sir, there was scarcely a debate upon these words, although we conceived very naturally that they were the very strongest words we could have introduced into the speech; and we introduced them for the purpose of eliciting a discussion upon this very subject. Yet no discussion took place. There was scarcely
 115 116 117 118 119
 Major Beauclerk  quite agreed with the hon. Baronet, and was sure that the hon. Member for Rye must feel satisfied with, the explanation which the fight hon. and gallant Officer had made.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that when he rose before, it was for the purpose of making some observations upon the speech of the hon. Member for Bath, and he had to regret that the hon. Member had thought it right to take the opportunity of attacking the party with whom he generally acted, in the absence of every one of them except himself; and that as soon as he had made the bitter attack he did upon his friends, he should have left the House. He could not help regretting this the more as, if he had stopped, he would have heard who was the first person that had complimented and expressed his satisfaction at what had fallen from him, after he had thought proper, with so much asperity, to attack, as well as to leave, the party with whom he had formerly acted, for he would have learned that the first person who hailed him as a friend was the Member for Winchester—a Gentleman who once sat on the liberal side of the House, and who now sat on the opposite side. Agreeing generally, however, with many of the views of the hon. Member for Bath, he was glad to hear the Member for Winchester quote him as an authority for the opinion of the people of England. The hon. Member said, that the people were against rendering any assistance to the Queen of Spain because the Member for Bath had said so. Now, if the hon. Member for Bath should continue to express liberal opinions in. this House, and of the same character as he had done before, he should remind the Member for Winchester that if he differed from him he was differing from the people of England. He did not think that the hon. Member for Bath did altogether represent either in manner or matter the feelings and opinions of the people of England; but as he purported to do so, and his views were somewhat peculiar, he was sorry that he had not, on the many occasions which had been afforded him on the discussion of this question, stated them at any time but when it was most prejudicial to his party, and most favourable to his opponents; and, beyond the praise which he received from the opposite side,
 39 40 41 42 de facto; de jure. 43 44 45 46
 Mr. Barron  said, that as he understood the gallant Officer had withdrawn the expression, which was the sole cause of the observations he (Mr. Barron) had made, he felt of course bound to withdraw the words which had been used by him in reply.
 Mr. Barron : If the gallant Officer stands up and says that he does not mean that it was presumptuous in me to speak to order, I shall be satisfied; otherwise I shall be bound to take notice of it. It is not the first time I have seen this kind of conduct in this House, on the part of the same hon. and gallant Officer.
 Mr. Barron  rose to order. The hon. and gallant Officer was not confining himself merely to explanation, but was making a speech; and this was at least the tenth speech he had made on the present question.
 Mr. Barron  said, it was quite obvious, from what the right hon. and gallant Officer had himself stated, that he was taking an opportunity to make a reply which the rules of the House did not justify. [ Order, chair
 Mr. Barron : I presume to do my duty in this House, and I conceive it is excessive impertinence on the part of the gallant Officer, [ Order Order, chair
 Sir Henry Hardinge  was sure that the House must be perfectly aware that as he had made his Motion by way of Amendment, he had no right to a reply. If he had had that right he should not have risen at the present moment, In answer, then, to the hon. Member opposite—
 Sir Henry Hardinge ; I admit it is possible to take offence at a person's manner as well as words; but I appeal to the House whether my manner was calculated to give offence. I assure the House that it is the farthest from my intention to offer anything in the shape of insult to any individual. At the same time if I pass by what was said, as to the expressions which have been used by the hon. Member, at the present moment I entirely pass them by. The right hon. and gallant Officer then proceeded with his explanation of the observations he had made on General Evans's conduct.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  said, it was not usual for any hon. Member to read a letter in reply to any speech which had been made by another hon. Member: but he had made no objection to that course being taken by the hon. Member for Tipperary; on the contrary, he thought it was only an act of justice to General Evans that it should be done, and instead of objecting to its being done, he was rather pleased, because it afforded him (Sir Henry Hardinge) an opportunity to
 14 Order, order
 Sir H. Hardinge  would merely say, that he did in his opening speech state that the British Legion had on several occasions signalised themselves by acts of bravery; and that it was only when they had degenerated into a system of insubordination and mutiny that their services were rendered nugatory. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman would recollect that he did make use of those expressions; con-
 16
 Sir Henry Hardinge  knew from experience how futile it was to waste the time of the House upon this kind of what he supposed he must call a point of honour. He hoped it was not necessary at his time of life to say much upon this subject. But he could not help observing that before he made use of the expression presumptuous—a word which was not, he admitted, strictly Parliamentary—the hon. Member's manner towards him was not that which one Member ought to use towards another. It was, however, useless to pursue the matter further, and as far as he was concerned, having used the word "presumptuous," he should not found any proceedings on the expressions of the hon. Member.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member had unquestionably used an expression which he ought not to have used.
 The Speaker  said, that after what had occurred, he should have been quite satisfied if the matter had been suffered to drop, had it not been for the expression used by the gallant Officer alluded to by the noble Lord.
 The Speaker  observed, that anything which the right hon. and gallant Officer had himself said he was justified in explaining; but with respect to the conduct and character of Major Richardson, he apprehended that other persons were just as competent to speak to that as the right hon. and gallant Officer.
 The Speaker  was sure that the hon. Member must feel that he had used an expression which, on reflection, he would, not have used towards any hon. Member.
 The Speaker  repeated, that the rule of the House was, that if anything which the right hon. and gallant Officer had himself stated was misrepresented by any hon. Member, then he would be entitled to give an explanation as to that point; but the rule would not permit him to make any additional remarks to his own former statement.
 The Speaker  interrupted the hon. Member, and reminded him that he could not, according to the usages of the House, quote from a report in a newspaper; but he was at liberty to read any extracts from the letter, in answer to allegations which had been made by any hon. Member.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, he was quite surprised at the appeal which had been made to him by the hon. and gallant General opposite. If the hon. and gallant General thought thereby to catch a vote, he would find himself exceedingly disappointed. As to this question of intervention, as it was called, the hon. and gallant General must by this time be well
 19 Hear 20 21 l. l. 22 23
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson :  * ✶ 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 * * 33 34 35 36
 Sir Charles Burrell  was sure, after what the right hon. and gallant Officer had said as to his not intending to give any hon. Member offence, that must be perfectly satisfactory to the hon. Member (Mr. Barron) and to the House also.
 Sir R. Peel : Before I proceed to state what is in my opinion the real question at issue, I must be permitted to refer to that part of the noble Lord's speech which was meant as a reply to a speech which I delivered about ten days since. All the noble Lord's ponderous levities might have been discharged then. The noble Lord was in the House when I spoke. He was in his place when I arraigned his foreign policy. It was not half-past one o'clock.— [It was half-past one when Lord Palmerston finished his speech.]—He had no excuse for his silence in the lateness of the hour, for I concluded my speech at twelve o'clock on that night, and yet the noble Lord has found it necessary, after ten days' deliberation, to reply to my speech at about an hour and a quarter after the hour at which I finished. The noble Lord has referred to a declaration which I then made, and which I will repeat in his presence. Why did I make that declaration? Because the town was full of reports, "on the highest authority," that Ministers were going to resign. We were told the very day on which the fatal event was to take place, and I did mean to say, what I now believe, that the Government, seeing the embarrassments in which they were involved in their domestic and foreign policy,
 97 98 99 de facto, 100 * * 101 102 * * 103 104 105 dicta 106 "That it is not for the honour or interest of Great Britain to make war with France on account of the internal circumstances of that country, for the purpose of punishing individuals there professing principles, however pernicious their tendency, or for the establishment among the French people of any particular form of government." "He trusted he should soon see this war as generally execrated as it was now thought to be popular. He knew he should be represented as holding up the internal government of France as an object of imitation. He thought
 107 "The conduct of the French in the Netherlands was the same. It was a war of pikes and bayonets against opinions;—it was the tyranny of giving liberty by compulsion;—it was an attempt to introduce a system among a people by force, which the more it was forced upon them the more they abhorred." "Fearful as is the example which is furnished by Spain of an army in revolt, and a monarch swearing to a constitution which contains in its frame hardly the semblance of a monarchy, there is no ground for apprehension that Europe is likely to be speedily endangered by Spanish arms. It never was, however, intended as an union for the government of the world, or for the superintendence of the internal affairs of other states. … We shall be found in our place when actual danger menaces the system of Europe; but this country cannot and will not, act upon abstract and speculation principles of precaution." 108 "With respect to Spain there seems nothing to add to, or vary, in the course of policy hitherto pursued; solicitude for the safety of the Royal Family, observance of our engagements with Portugal, and a rigid abstinence from any interference in the internal affairs of that country, must be considered as forming the basis of his Majesty's policy." "No proof was produced to his Majesty's plenipotentiary of the existence of any design on the part of the Spanish government to invade the territory of France—of any attempt to introduce disaffection among her soldiery, or of any project to undermine her political institutions; and so long as the struggles and disturbances of Spain should be confined within the circle of her own territory, they could not be admitted by the British Government to afford any plea for foreign interference. If the end of the last, and beginning of the present, century saw all Europe combined against France, it was not on account of the internal changes which France thought necessary for her own political and civil reformation, but because she attempted to propagate, first, her principles, and afterwards her dominion, by the sword." 109 110 "Does good by stealth, and blush to find it fame." 111 "His Grace does not hesitate, upon his intimate experience of Spanish affairs, to pronounce that the Spanish nation is, of all the European people, that which will least brook any interference from abroad; he states the many instances in which, during the last war, this distinguished trait of national character rendered them obstinately blind to the most pressing considerations of public safety; he states the imminent danger in which the suspicion of foreign interference, and more especially of interference on the part of France, is likely to involve the King; and he further describes the difficulties which would oppose themselves to any military operation in Spain, undertaken for the purpose of reducing, by force, the nation to submit themselves to an order of things to be either suggested or prescribed to them from without." 112 113 "That reason frowus on war's unequal gain, Where thousands bleed to raise a single name;" 114
 Sir Stratford Canning  rose amidst loud cries of "Divide," and "Spoke." He said, that if it had been his own character only that had been attacked, he should not obstruct the division, but wait a more convenient opportunity. In the remarks, however, which the noble Lord had addressed to him, a public principle of government of some importance was involved [Cries of "Spoke," and "Chair."] He was aware that it was the duty of persons who filled the confidential situation of ambassador, not to divulge the instructions they had received; but the noble Lord had raised a feeling of momentary impatience,
 120
 Viscount Palmerston  spoke as follows:  * * 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 the Spanish monarchy 73 74 75 76 77 78 "Sir G. Rooke, the English Admiral, and the Prince of Hesse Darmstadt, the Spanish General, with five or six thousand land troops, returning from an unsuccessful attempt on Barcelona, in 1704, determined to attack Gibraltar. They summoned the place; but the Governor, Diego de Salines, refused to surrender. On receiving this answer, the Prince of Darmstadt immediately landed [what? his own troops? No; he landed] 1,800 marines on the isthmus, while Sir G. Rooke opened his batteries by sea. The bombardment began on the 2nd of August, and continued till the 3rd, when part of the garrison went to prayers, it being a saint's day. While they were thus employed, the eastern quarter of the rock was left unguarded, and a party—[of whom? we have already landed our marines, and here come the sailors,]—and a party of English sailors seized this opportunity to scale the almost inaccessible precipice, thus threatening the fortress from the heights which overhang it. Captain Whittaker manned his boats, stormed the mole-head, and carried the town; and the garrison having capitulated, Sir G. Rooke took possession of the place in the name of the Queen of England, and it has continued in our possession ever since." "In 1708, General Stanhope and part of the fleet of Admiral Leake reached Minorca on the 14th of September. The whole force, including the marines who served on shore, did not exceed 2,600 men, about one-half of them being English." "And the Artillery from the ships consisted of forty-two great guns, and fifteen mortars. On the 30th of September the place surrendered. Among the killed was General Stanhope's brother, the captain of the Milford, who had determined to head his own marines on shore." 79 per mare, per terrain "And thus, disputed succession and contending parties, which to most nations have given a dawn of liberty, in this ill-fated country only added to the darkness; and instead of augmenting and confirming the popular power, overthrew the frail remnants of its past authority." 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 réconnoissance, 87 88 89 l. 90 91 92 93 94 95 96
 Viscount Palmerston  would not have risen but for some words which fell from the right hon. and gallant Officer, when he declared that he should pass by the expressions of the hon. Member for Waterford. The right hon. and gallant Officer, in making that statement, used the words "at present." He would appeal to the right hon. and gallant
 15
 Lord John Russell  rose to bring forward a motion relating to the privileges of that House. A report had been made to the House from the select Committee on the Poor-law Amendment Bill, stating that parts of the evidence, and parts of the documents produced before that Committee, had been published in  The True Sun The Dublin Evening Mail, 171 The True Sun 172 173 174
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the noble Lord had greatly mistaken the motive which bad induced him to suggest an amendment, when he supposed that it was to evade the operation of a principle. Quite the reverse. If it were, as the noble Lord bad contended, the undoubted and the universally acknowledged privilege of that House to prohibit the publication of evidence taken before Select Committees, whence the necessity of the resolution now moved? Apparently it was Parliamentary law as palpable as that they were legislators. If that law had been violated, there was a penalty for it; and whoever had incurred the penalty ought to be exposed to it, and be made to bear it. He was quite willing to do so if he had violated the law. Therefore, let it not be understood that be moved this amendment for the paltry purpose of evading a principle. He denied the terms of the motion when it was stated that the suppression of evidence was the privilege of that House, and at the same time, the interest of the public. It asserted two distinct propositions—first, that the House had privileges; secondly, that it had privileges apart from the interests of the public. He denied, that that House had any privilege apart from the interests of the public. Every privilege that the House possessed it possessed solely for the good of the public. But he did not understand exactly what was meant by the term "Privileges of the House." "Privilege," as he conceived, meant something that was conferred—something that some enjoyed, and from which others were excluded. It implied, therefore, the power of conferring. Now, it was impossible for Parliament to have any privilege conferred upon it; because its Members being the representatives of the people, were in themselves the people, and inasmuch as that they were the
 175 176 177 178 The Times Times True Sun? 179 180
 Mr. Wakley  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  was anxious, that the greatest facilities should be afforded to the publication of the proceedings before the Select Committees of that House; for it appeared to him, that the value of an inquiry by a Committee, would be extremely deteriorated, as regarded the effect it would produce on the public mind, by the circumstance of the evidence not being communicated to the public from time to time, especially when the subject of the inquiry was calculated to excite a public interest. He considered, that the proceedings of this Committee were such as it was peculiarly incumbent on the House to make public, as the question was one of the greatest interest to the whole community. It had been his intention, if no other amendment had been moved, to have proposed as an amendment a resolution to the effect, that it was expedient that the publication of evidence taken before Select Committees, not being Secret Committees, should be permitted. But the hon. Member for South-
 181
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that having intimated an opinion that he should move an amendment almost similar in terms to that suggested by the hon. Member for Southwark, he felt it his duty to trespass for a few moments upon the attention of the House. The resolution of the noble Lord appeared to him to be totally unnecessary. He remembered, that in the case of General Darling, which was before a Select Committee, the majority of that Committee licensed (as far as they could do) the publication of the evidence. The minority appealed to the Speaker of that day, and he gave it as his opinion, that there was no such thing known to the law as the publication of any evidence or discussions of matters undecided by that House; and, certainly, they all knew that it was a breach of privilege to publish even what was, at the present moment, going on in the House. Yet it was a breach of privilege which took place every day, and all of them would regret exceedingly in their turn, if that breach of privilege did not take place. It was therefore difficult to deal with the Motion itself, while it was also difficult to negative any vote of the kind, if the opinion to which he had referred, was correct; because, certainly, cases might arise, such as the noble Lord had adverted to, when it might be improper to apply the general rule of publication to such excepted cases. But he was of opinion, that those excepted cases might be very well left to the discretion of the Committee itself. He was, however, strongly of opinion, that publication, as a general rule, would be highly beneficial. He did not think the hon. Member had accurately stated the rule as to the publication of proceedings in a court of law pending a trial, because the judges had latterly been in the practice of prohibiting such publication. He thought the judges were wrong; and that the prohibition did no mischief. It was a modern power assumed by them. In the year 1794, when there was a great conspiracy to get rid of the Reformers, a trial took place which lasted eight days. The evidence, during the first three or four days, was published, which led to the discovery of facts with regard to the character of certain witnesses that tended materially to serve the cause of the accused. He thought, with respect to proceedings in courts of justice, it was favourable to have the evi-
 182 ex parte 183
 Sir James Graham  was glad that he had given way to the hon. and learned Gentleman, for although he did not think that this was exactly the proper time for discussing the Poor-law Amendment Bill, yet he rejoiced that he had given the hon. and learned Member the opportunity of making a declaration so honourable to himself, that although, perhaps, at this particular juncture, and at the earliest stage of the experiment of the amended Poor-law, that measure had not been altogether properly administered, and although the hon. and learned Member had opposed that measure in all its stages, yet he had now gallantly and publicly come forward and avowed, that even during the short time he had witnessed its workings, he believed it to be a most beneficial measure. He thought that such an avowal from that hon. and learned Member would be most advantageous to the country, and he therefore greatly rejoiced that he had given way to that hon. and learned Member. The hon. and learned Gentleman entertaining that opinion, said, that it was a measure that would bear investigation; but, on the other hand, it would be admitted that that investigation for the purpose of eliciting truth, must be conducted upon principles of the utmost fairness and safety. The question then arose, what was the safe and fair principle? The hon. and learned
 184 ex parte, 185 The True Sun 186 The True Sun 187
 Sir James Graham  should be sorry to be guilty of any want of courtesy to the hon. Member; but he could not help observing, that he considered truth to be of more importance than courtesy. It was true, that in the first instance he proposed that the document should be printed for the use of the Committee only; but on a moment's reflection he withdrew his motion, as he anticipated something like the course that had now been pursued.
 Mr. Hume  was accustomed to look upon the privileges of that House as framed for a wise and salutary purpose, and for the public benefit. With respect, however, to the rules adopted as to the publication of their proceedings, he must say, that one of the rules which was adopted at the commencement of each Session against the publication of the debates and proceedings of that House was of a most objectionable nature, and he had taken many opportunities of expressing his opposition to it. The motion of the noble Lord was, "That according to the undoubted privileges of this House, and for the due protection of the public interest, the evidence taken by any Select Committee of this House, and documents presented to such Committee, and which have not been reported to the House, ought not to be published by any Member of such Committee, or by any other person." He considered this resolution to be objectionable on many grounds. He would put it to the House, whether it was not inconsistent to provide accommodation for individuals to commit a breach of their privileges, and to allow them facilities to take notes to report the proceedings of the House. At any inquiry at the bar of the House the evidence would be taken, and published from day to day.
 189 190
 Mr. Williams Wynn  agreed with the right hon. Member for Cumberland, that the two motions were perfectly distinct, and were not in opposition the one to the other. It by no means followed that because they felt that the rules and orders of that House called upon them to support the first motion, that the second question could not be put separately and agreed to. The great point was, that that House should reserve to itself the right to regulate the proceedings of select Committees. The Committees could have no authority that did not emanate directly from the House, and it was only by a special rule that a Committee was enabled to send for a single witness, or call for a single document, for they could not do so until they were empowered to send for persons, papers, and records. In the same manner, it must have permission given it to adjourn from place to place, and to report its evidence from time to time. That power had been granted to the Poor-law Committee, and it was left to their discretion to take what they considered the best division of the evidence for the purpose of reporting it to the House. The Committee were not thereby precluded from reporting the evidence day by day to the House. On the contrary, full power was given them to do so, if they thought fit. The hon. Member appeared to labour under some mistake in supposing that the printing of the evidence taken before Committees, and the printing of that taken at the bar of the House, rested on the same authority; viz. the fiat of the Speaker. The Speaker had the power of authorising the evidence taken before Committees to be printed for the use of the members of the Committees, and of them only; but when an inquiry was conducted at the bar of the House, the Speaker had no power ovér the printing of the evidence. That was a matter entirely at the disposal of the House. He recollected that, during the inquiry into the Walcheren expedition, the late Mr. Yorke regularly exercised the right,
 191 192
 Mr. Warburton  looked upon the hon. Member's amendment as an altogether erroneous mode of meeting the question. The hon. Member should have come before the House with a substantive motion. There could not be the slightest doubt about what were the powers and privileges of the House as to the publication of evidence, as a general rule; neither could there be the slightest hesitation on the part of the House in affirming, if called upon, that as a general rule, there was and ought to be in the House a power to exclude strangers; but the question was, whether the House was prepared invariably to exert those powers—whether on all occasions, when the House saw any publication of what had taken place in one of its Select Committees, it was prepared to employ all its powers in punishing those who had been guilty of the publication. He had repeatedly seen the proceedings of Committees published without the slightest notice being taken by the House of the circumstance. He remembered, for instance, the case of the Select Committee which took cognizance of certain Members of the House in the Arigna mine affair, the proceedings before which were regularly published, day by day, in  The Times, 193
 Mr. Wakley  said, that as it seemed admitted on all hands, that it was a breach of privilege for the hon. Member to publish the proceedings of a Committee, to proceed with the resolution would be a weak and unmeaning affirmation of what had been the custom of ages. It had been justly observed, that there might be cases in which the publication of the proceedings before a Committee was desirable. It appeared to him that if ever there was a case in which the deviation from a practice of the House was admissible, it was that now in question. Whose interests were attacked in this Committee? Whose interests had to be defended? In both cases those of the poor, the needy, and the helpless. What was the power arrayed before the Committee in support of the new Poor-law? The effective and well-organised power of the Commissioners sitting at Somerset-house. Who assert the rights of the poor in this Committee? Professional aid they had none. As far, however, as his own assistance could avail them, there he would never fail in the duty he owed them. He was bound, however, to state broadly and distinctly, as regarded the manner in which the proceedings before the Committee were conducted, that a spectator would find it utterly impossible to discover what was the bias, in reference to the new Poor-law, of any of the members who composed the Committee, everything was carried on with such entire openness and impartiality, and not the slightest disposition was evinced on the part of any Member to prevent any witness from making the fullest statement in his power, whatever its tendency. Seeing, however, the excited state of the public mind on this subject; the representations, true and false, extensively circulated respecting the operation of the act; it appeared to him that out of regard to the interests of the public at large, and the honour of the House, it was essential that the proceedings before this Committee should be laid before the public in the fullest and most open manner from day to day. If this were not done, he feared that most unfavourable impressions would arise in the public mind: for what would the poorer part of the community say? — "Oh, we see what this Committee is about; they are afraid the truth should transpire, and so they wish to keep the evidence secret till they have trimmed it and cut it down. If they were not afraid,
 194
 Mr. Ward  said, there was no doubt it was essential to the character of Select Committees that they should have the power of keeping the evidence taken before them secret, if they thought fit. At the same time, he perfectly concurred in the principle of the amendment, and he should have been ready to vote for it, had it come before them as a substantive motion. He felt, however, that he could not do so in its present shape, without negativing a rule which, it was generally conceded, it was essential to maintain as a general principle. If the hon. Member would only forward his proposition as a substantive motion, it should have his (Mr. Ward's) ready support. He had heard no reason why the rule should be too strictly enforced in this particular instance. It appeared to him to be a very great object that the public mind should be enlightened as to the real working of this measure in reference to the poor; and this object could not be better attained than by the publication of the evidence. He was sure that there was but one spirit among all the Members of the House regarding the welfare of the poorer classes; and that if it should appear that the working of the measure in any respect was injurious to these classes, the House would be perfectly ready to apply a remedy. The true state of the case would be shown in the evidence before this Committee, and for the sake of all parties, it was very desirable that no time should be lost in communicating that evidence to the public.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  did not rise to protract the discussion, but, on the contrary, to put an end to it altogether, for he rose for the purpose of moving that it be adjourned till that day six months. It appeared to him, that no case had been made out for the interference of the House. There was no doubt, to be sue, that the proprietor of  The True Sun 195 The Times. The True Sun,
 Mr. Roebuck  seconded the amendment. As the hon. Member for Southwark had observed, if it had been thought that the proceedings before this Committee should be kept secret, all that was necessary was, to declare it a secret Committee. No practical advantage could possibly arise from affirming in general terms a rule of the House which everybody admitted to he a rule of the House. The only effect of the resolution would be to exhibit the proprietor of  The True Sun
 Lord John Russell  begged to say he had no such object in view as the making a martyr of any hon. Member. His only object was, as it seemed that the privileges of the House had been partially called in question by one of its Members, that the rule of the House should be affirmed, so that there should no longer be a doubt on the subject. It was most desirable that they should come to some clear understanding as to the power of Committees respecting publication of evidence, and he therefore hoped, that before the discussion terminated, Mr. Speaker would state to the House his opinion upon the point.
 Mr. Roebuck  explained that he had passed no opinion as to the object of the noble Lord's resolution; what he had spoken of was its effect.
 Mr. Robinson  regretted that the hon. Member for Southwark had not made a substantive motion. Had the question come before the House in that shape, he should have supported it, for he considered that if ever there was a case which might be permitted to form an exception to the general rule of the House as to publication of evidence, it was this.
 Mr. Richards  conceived that the proper course for the hon. Member for Southwark would have been to have taken the sense of the Committee as to the publication of its proceedings; had the sense of
 196
 The Speaker : In consequence of the appeal of the noble Lord, and of what has fallen from hon. Members during this discussion, I feel it to be my duty to state under what authority evidence taken before Select Committees is printed. The rule of the House is, that all papers laid before the House shall, under the authority of the Speaker, be printed by the printer of the House; and all papers are published under the authority of the Speaker for the use of its Members generally. The evidence taken before a Select Committee forms an exception to this rule. The practice of printing the evidence taken before Select Committees, for the use of the Members of the respective Committees, is a recent one, the rule having been made in 1814. The practice from that period to 1816 was, that the Chairman of each Committee applied to the Speaker for permission to have the evidence printed by the printer of the House, without which, the printer would not print; and, this being granted, the evidence was accordingly printed, but only on the faith and clear understanding that it was printed for the use only of members of the Committee. If evidence taken before a Committee, were printed otherwise than on these conditions, — if it were printed not for the use of the Committee but for the public, this would clearly be a direct violation of the privileges of the House. And the reason is obvious; for see what would be the consequence if it were not so,— if it had no other foundation; for if the publication were to be extended for the use of the public, it would place the Speaker in a very awkward situation. The Speaker would be put in the position of sanctioning the publication of evidence which had not been communicated to the House; and the Committee would be directing the publication of evidence which it had not the permission of the House to make known. It is obvious, then, that should it become an ascertained fact that any Member of a Committee is in the habit of printing copies of the evidence in order to communicate it to the public, without the authority of the House for so doing, the Speaker must necessarily find himself placed between two alternatives — either to recall his permission to the Committee to print the evidence, or to bring the Member
 197
 Mr. O'Connell  said, great discontent existed in both Canadas on account of the system of government which prevailed there. It was a system of favouritism. He had learned also that Orange lodges were still in existence in those colonies; and from accounts by the last packet it appeared that, but a short time ago, a number of new members had been sworn in. Much had been said about resolutions which had been passed in Upper Canada, approving of the government of Sir Francis Head. Now, what happened on the last day of the Session, when one-third of the members had left town? A motion was made by the Solicitor-General for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the act relative to the clergy reserves, for the purpose of setting them apart for the benefit of the Protestant Establishment; but it was rejected. He wished to know if that was the policy of the Government at home. Looking at all the circumstances of the case, he thought the Government would be acting wisely in adjourning the further consideration of the resolutions for six months.
 Lord Stanley  opposed the amendment, and defended the policy and the proceedings connected with the passing of the act in ques-tion. Before it was adopted by the Government to which he belonged, every possible inquiry was made as to the proper value of the crown lands in Canada, and the opinion of the law officers of the crown taken on the subject. These preliminaries having been settled, all that remained for him to do was to fix the terms upon which the amendment was to be made. The Bill was a long time before the House, and though the hon. and learned Member for Bath might not then have been a paid agent of the colony, yet he was a Member of Parliament; and did he mean to say, that interesting himself as he did in the affairs of Canada, he had not been aware of the progress of that Act through the House? It had gone through the usual course and had received the sanction of Parliament, and there was therefore no ground to question its validity, or to doubt of the fairness of the steps taken in regard to it. That company, however, tended to encourage the settlement of natives of this country in Canada, and
 211
 Mr. Grote  did not think, that the right hon. Baronet had been very successful in vindicating himself from the charge brought against him by the hon. and learned Member for Bath. If, indeed, the right hon. Baronet had been successful at all, it was only in artfully concealing the question which the hon. and learned Member for Bath intended to raise, and did raise. As he understood that question, it was this —whether it was politic to maintain a legislative council possessing co-ordinate powers of legislation, and independent of the Governor. The hon. and learned Member for Bath, in alluding to the constitutions of other colonies, pointed out this, which he, (Mr. Grote), believed to be the fact —that there was more than one colonial possession of Great Britain in which there was no legislative council appointed by the Crown. And holding place for life, so as to make it totally independent of the Crown. That was the point for which he (Mr. Grote) contended. When the right hon. Baronet spoke of a legislative council appointed by the Governor, and holding place during the pleasure of the Governor, he must see, as every body else did, that the  veto veto veto 209 veto veto veto
 Mr. Grote  felt also under the necessity of declining to vote for the amendment; but he felt the same difficulty as regarded the resolution. If the title of the company was good, there was no occasion to affirm
 216
 Mr. Robinson  said, the hon. Member for Bath was in the habit of speaking in a most unscrupulous manner. He charged that hon. Member with being guilty of one of two things —either that he knew that the Bill in question was passing through the House, and had neglected to oppose it; or that he did not know of it, and was thereby ignorant of what it was his duty, as a Member of Parliament, to have known. The Bill was brought in on the 24th of March, 1834, was read a second time on the 12th of April, a third time on the 5th of May, and received the royal assent on the 12th of May. It was too late, therefore, for the hon. Member new to say that he had been taken by surprise. The people of Canada also had known that the company was being formed the year before, and yet they never made any objection. In fact, the whole thing was an after-thought. What was the real objection to the British American Land Company? Not that it had not effected great good in Canada —no, it was because it had effected, and was still effecting so much good in that colony; it was because the company were inducing people to emigrate and settle there; and because new towns and villages were thriving and flourishing in that country by its means; and by the blessing of God there would, in a few years, be raised up in those new settlements a population of many hundreds of thousands; it was because the French Canadians would in a short time be deprived of that majority which they now possessed, and of which he was sorry they made so bad a use, that the hon. Member for Bath and his friends in Canada, so much objected to that company. It was said that the company was a monopoly; but he denied that statement. Almost any number of acres of land might now be bought for little more than the price
 214
 Mr. Robinson  denied, that the Land Company had ever used their power for political purposes.
 Mr. Leader  said, that the hon. Member had brought a serious charge against the hon. and learned Member for Bath, namely, his being ignorant of a private Bill that was going through the House. He begged to ask the hon. Member for Worcester, did he know really and truly every private Bill that was at that moment before the House? It was impossible to know of every private Bill that came before the House. With respect to this particular resolution, he must say he did not want to repeal the Land Company Act. On the contrary, he only wanted an inquiry into the manner in which the Bill passed, how the land had been appropriated, and how the money that was paid for it had been appropriated. He thought it right that an inquiry should be made into the way in which the Act was passed. There were other reasons for inquiry. This company had a large extent of land in Canada, which gave them great power, and they had a right to inquire bow they employed that power, and whether there was anything unconstitutional in the manner in which that power was exercised. This
 215
 Mr. Leader , in rising to move the postponement of the further consideration of these resolutions, hoped the Souse would extend to him its indulgence for a few minutes while he stated his reason for doing so. He was convinced it was the wish of his Majesty's Government, as well as hon. Gentlemen opposite, in supporting these resolutions to restore tranquility to Lower Canada. But his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bath had proposed the other night a plan regarding Canada, to which the noble Lord had objected, as not being in conformity with the wishes of the Canadian people, and of which the right hon. Baronet opposite had said, that it was not sanctioned by any constitutional authority. Now as that plan of his learned Friend was highly approved of by many persons out of that House, as well as by many hon. Members within it, all he wished was, that his Majesty's Government should postpone these resolutions, in order to give time to the Canadian people to state whether they agreed with the plan of his hon. and learned Friend or not. It was allowed by the noble Lord himself that the chief object
 199
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the hon. Baronet had spoken of a dwindling minority; he could refer the hon. Baronet to a dwindling majority. But did the hon. Baronet therefore think that the Irish Municipal Corporation Bill was less deserving of public approbation and support than when it was passed by a majority of eighty? The British Land Company was said to be formed under the sanction of Parliament, and they were told that it would be a disturbance of the rights of all property if they were to go into an inquiry as to the formation of that company. He denied that proposition altogether. This company was of a peculiar nature; and if its charter were rescinded to-morrow, it would not shake the confidence of any one man in Canada as to the validity of his title to his private property. What he wanted to have inquired into were the circumstances under which that company was formed. He was sorry he did not see the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, in the House, because he should like to have asked that noble Lord his opinion as to the propriety of establishing that Land Company, and whether, when he was under-secretary of the colonies, he approved of it or not? The hon. Baronet had spoken very pathetically about checking the tide of emigration, but did he not know that the number of persons emigrating from England to the United States of America was just
 213 l.
 Mr. Roebuck  opposed the resolution, and contended that the establishment of the Land Company had been injurious to the Crown lands, and productive of no public good. The Act by which it was created, had been smuggled through the House; it had been made a mere money speculation, and the general interests of the public had been neglected. He demanded, therefore, that no resolution should pass the House affirming the privileges which had been conferred on that company till a Select Committee had investigated the grounds upon which the act for its establishment had been founded, and till it was ascertained whether the powers which the Company possessed had not been exercised injuriously for the crown lands and for the public interest. The hon. Member concluded by moving, as an amendment, "That it is the opinion of the Committee, that no resolution shall be come to by the Committee respecting the North American Land Company till an inquiry shall have been instituted into the circumstances under which the land held by that company had been obtained."
 Mr. Roebuck  said, after the observations which had been made by several Members he wished to call the attention of the Government to the real state of the case. The noble Lord said there was a difficulty in the way. What was the difficulty? The officers of the Government were not paid. And what did the noble Lord propose? A series of resolutions to take away from the Canadian people their money and their rights. The House was called on to hurry —to allow no delay, because if they did, they said the state of the country would become more dangerous every day. But did the Government think that the resolutions would settle the point at issue? The Government might get the resolutions passed —they might excite people and pay the Government officers for one year, but when that year had revolved, the question would be in precisely the same state. He wished the Government to attend to that point; and if coercion was to take place he would say
 202 203 ex cathedra, 204
 Mr. Hume  could not deny that he had had a knowledge of this Bill; on the contrary, when the Bill was passing, the only complaint he made was, that it was a private Bill to appropriate public property. He considered that a most improper proceeding. Whether the Bill was right or wrong it had now passed into an Act, and the parties who held property under that Act, had a perfect right to be protected in the possession of that property. What he complained of was, that this association had, as he understood, become a political engine. They exercised their power for political purposes, and this was the objection he had to the company. He contended that the land of the company should be sold for the benefit of the colony, and that the produce of the sale ought to be expended in supporting the civil and military establishments of the colony. The manner in which the company's affairs were conducted was hostile to the peace of the colony. The value of the land was day by day declining in consequence of the disturbed state of the country, and these disturbances were, in a great measure, the result of the conduct of the company. Would these resolutions remove the causes of disturbance? On the contrary, the moment they reached Canada, there would be almost the certainty of a civil war; and how could they expect that emigrants should settle, and pay a large price for land, in a country so situated? He objected to affirm these resolutions because in his conscience he believed they would be most prejudicial to the interests of this country and the colony.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the amendment. He entreated the noble Lord to consider what he would do if the people of Lower Canada would not submit to the proposed conditions. Was it likely that what the noble Lord proposed would promote peace in that colony? What confidence could the Canadians have in the good feelings
 200
 Mr. P. M. Stewart  denied, that the resolutions would excite a flame in Canada, and hoped there would be no delay in passing them. He hoped the House would instigate the Government to go on. The colony had not a tittle of right to what they demanded. He was convinced that when the case became fully known the small minority which they had on the first division would dwindle down, and even doubted much if the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny would be in it. He admitted that abuses ought to be removed and grievances redressed. It was said that 350,000 Canadians called for the change advocated by the hon. Member for Bath; but he would ask the House also to take into consideration the wishes of 1,200,000 inhabitants of those colonies, who deprecated the measures proposed. He called on the Government and the House to proceed with the resolutions, not for the purpose of raising salaries for the Crown officers, but for restoring peace to the country. The two main resolutions had passed, and the only object now in view was delay.
 Mr. Wason  entreated the House to pause and to give the Canadians an opportunity of expressing their opinion on these resolutions before passing them.
 Sir George Grey  said, the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny was under a mistake as to the nature of the Bill. Indeed, the information which the hon.
 201
 Sir George Grey  wished to ask the hon. and learned Member for Bath, why he had departed from the demand made by the House of Assembly, that demand being the pure and absolute repeal of the Act of Parliament under which the charter to the Land Company was confirmed? Why did he not adhere to that demand? Was he influenced by finding himself left in a dwindling minority, or was it that he had discovered that there was a sense of honour existing in the British Parliament, which would, by an unanimous vote, negative any proposition to repeal an act upon the faith of which property had been bought and sold, transactions of the most extensive kind had taken place, and British emigrants had proceeded to the
 212
 Sir George Grey  said, after three nights' debate on the same subject it could hardly be expected that they should anew discuss the question. Any discussion that might be necessary could take place in Committee. He would only say, that the Ministers had gravely considered the subject before they submitted the resolutions to the House, and had adopted them with great reluctance. Nothing but an imperative sense of duty had forced them to take such a course; but after they had adopted the measure they would not shrink from carry-it into effect.
 Mr. Ward  said, that he felt bound to oppose the amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. The Land Company was incorporated under the sanction of an Act of Parliament. If there were abuses in its administration, let a substantive motion for inquiry be made, and he would support it.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Bath (Mr. Roebuck) had proposed a scheme of government for the Canadas, which, of course, that Gentleman deemed the fittest and most proper as well as the wisest that could be adopted. But the hon. and learned Gentleman must allow him to say, that he appeared to him to be a little too irritable for the framer of a constitution. On the present occasion, however, it appeared that all the irritability exhibited by the hon. and learned Gentleman arose from his having expressed an opinion that the hon. and learned Gentleman's scheme was absurd. He should have escaped all the phials of wrath that the hon. and learned Gentleman had poured out Upon him if he had not used the word "absurd" in reference to the famous scheme of government he had propounded. He (Sir R. Peel) was sorry, however, notwithstanding all the hon. and learned Gentleman's indignation, that subsequent reflection only confirmed his first impression with respect to that scheme. His original impression was, as he had stated it to be, that the scheme was absurd — intervening reflection induced him to retain the same opinion. He still thought it absurd. When he said this he intended to speak with no disrespect of the hon.
 205 206 207 veto. 208 à priori,
 Mr. Grote  observed, that the complaints of the people of Canada with respect to the tenures of land had been recognized and affirmed by the Commissioners themselves in the fourth section of their general report; and yet, although they had stigmatised the passing of the Tenures Act as a measure at once unjust and impolitic, this resolution did not propose to repeal it until certain things should have been done by the House of Assembly in Lower
 231
 Sir George Grey  regretted, that the Tenures Act had ever been passed, because it was opposed to the principle now acted upon, that the Imperial Parliament should not interfere in the internal and domestic affairs of any of the colonies (having legislatures of their own), unless there were an absolute necessity for so doing. He did not see, that there was any injustice or hardship in making the repeal of the act conditional upon the passing of the other measures described in the resolution.
 Mr. Roebuck  entertained but one feeling upon the subject—a feeling expressed by the following resolution, which he should move to substitute for that read from the chair:—"That it is expedient at once to repeal the Act commonly called the 'Canada Tenures Act.'"
 Mr. Hume  rose to protest against any further discussion of these resolutions, and to request the noble Lord at once to withdraw them. It was intolerable to have the time of the House wasted, and the business of the country delayed, whilst a parcel of resolutions were discussed which, if carried, would serve only to increase the evils they professed to remedy. Of all the departments of the State the colonial department was the very worst. He looked upon the colonial minister, indeed, as totally incompetent. He directed the whole of his policy on the self-same principle as that pursued for so many years by the Tories. He was only surprised to find that that minister had sufficient influence to drag so many of the Members of that House through the mire with him. He (Mr. Hume) was quite satisfied that these resolutions would be the commencement of a war in Canada. The Canadians would resort to hostilities as soon as they were able, and, indeed, they would be fools if they remained one hour longer under such a system than they could possibly help.
 Lord John Russell  had acted upon the authority of the Canadian Commissioners, and the Colonial office, —which he considered sufficient grounds for opposing the
 232
 Mr. Robinson  expressed a wish that the noble Lord would withdraw the resolution, and allow the Tenures Act to remain as it was. The only effect of repealing it would be to place all the property in Lower Canada under the power of the predominant party in the House of Assembly there.
 Mr. Grote  thought, that there was much ambiguity in the terms of the resolution. It seemed to him that the impolicy of passing the Tenures Act might well be insisted upon; and he thought the proper course the Committee could pursue was to repeal that Act, reserving all the rights vested under and by virtue of the Act.
 Mr. Rigby Wason  proposed the following amendment in this resolution.
 "That the House of Assembly in Lower Canada, by withholding the supplies necessary for carrying on the government, have adopted the only constitutional means of obtaining a remedy for their complaints, and the reasonableness of which this House has recognised by affirming the fourth and fifth resolutions; and it is therefore expedient to await the result of the plan about to be proposed by his Majesty's Government for redressing the grievances complained of by the Canadian Parliament." 234
 Sir George Grey  said, that as this part of the subject had been so amply discussed on former occasions, he did not feel called upon to trouble the House at length. With reference to the arrears of salary due to the civil and judicial officers of Lower Canada, if the Government allowed them to remain any longer un liquidated it would be utterly disgraced. The situation of these officers was most distressing, and many of them could only obtain the means of subsistence by borrowing money on the most extravagant and ruinous terms. He asked if the House of Commons would consent to leave the officers without their salaries? He was sure that it would not. Government had, after mature consideration, determined to take that which they believed to be the most open as well as the most upright course.
 Major Beauclerk  thought, that the course pursued by Government was most unjust. The aim and object of it was to attack the constitution, and thinking so he should give his warm and cordial support to the hon. and learned Member for Bath.
 Mr. Gally Knight  said, it was a satisfaction to him to think that, whatever delays might be interposed here or elsewhere, repeated majorities had put it beyond all manner of doubt that on this question the House of Commons had made up its mind. The resolution which the Committee had now to consider was the vital resolution, but it was the natural and necessary consequence of the first. By the first resolution the House had affirmed, that public officers, against whom there was not a shadow of complaint, had been left three years without their acknowledged due. Having made that declaration, would it become the House, would it become the
 235 236 237 de novo
 Mr. O'Connell  considered that they must indeed have learned nothing from experience if they were not determined to do justice to their colonies. Experience could have taught them nothing if they had not learned from her that if they refused to do justice to their colonies the colonies would themselves endeavour to obtain it. He did not know that the time had arrived as yet for the Canadians to obtain their rights; but this he was quite sure of, that the hon.
 238 239 240 241
 Mr. Roebuck  referred to the Government despatches of the 24th of December, 1830, the 15th of March, 1831, and 16th of May, 1831, to show that in the rejection of the propositions there was no breach of faith on the part of the House of Assembly. The noble Lord the Member for North Lancashire had stated that there was—he did so in gross ignorance: the press had dishonestly re-echoed the assertion, and it was now from ignorance repeated by the hon. Member for Nottingham. He was surprised at the Under Secretary for the Colonies asserting that there was a dispute between that House and the Canadians. He denied it. There was no dispute between them; but there was a dispute between the Colonial-office and the House of Assembly of Lower Canada. When he put it to the noble Lord not to press those resolutions, telling him that the House of Assembly would not listen to them, the noble Lord said, he could not believe that the House of Assembly would not listen to that which was the deliberately declared opinion of the British House of Commons. When, however, his hon. Friend the Member for Bridgwater recommended that there should be a delay of six months, then they were told by another Member of the Government, that there was no prospect of any advantage being gained by postponement, that this country had tried concession after concession, and no good had been done. He wanted to know how they were to reconcile these conflicting opinions. The very argument which was urged by the Government in favour of one proposition, was opposed by the Government when another proposition was submitted to them. Then it was said, in favour of these resolutions, that they must get over the present difficulty. Well, let them get over it, as they hoped to do, and where would they be? They would pay the expenses this year, and they would break open the Canadians' strong box for that purpose. What were they to do next year? These resolutions would order the Government to filch from
 242 243
 Mr. Robinson  was as desirous to promote a reconciliation with the House of Assembly as any hon. Gentleman could be, and if he had the most distant hope that such would be the effect of postponing these resolutions, he would earnestly join the hon. Gentlemen opposite, in soliciting the Government to take that course. But he believed there was no disposition on the part of the House of Assembly of Canada to make any concession; for after a concession had been made to them they had been met by increased and renewed demands, till things had been brought to their present unhappy state. What an absurdity would it not be to ask this country to pay for the service of Canada, the money for that service having been voted by the Canadian Assembly, who, however, were not willing to appropriate it? He would tell the hon. and learned Member for Bath, that in his opinion there was an obvious distinction between levying and appropriating the money. It was not proposed to tax the people of Canada without their consent; the money had
 244 245 Roebuck 246
 Mr. Roebuck  rose to explain. He denied that there was any imperious necessity for the passing of these resolutions. The House of Assembly of Lower Canada had passed a Supply Bill for six months, owing to a curious blunder of Sir F. Head, which made them believe that the instructions to the Commissioners were more liberal than Lord Gosford thought proper to announce. The legislative council threw out this Bill, which had given rise to all the difficulty that had been felt;
 Mr. Charles Buller  would not detain the House five minutes. He saw no use in addressing arguments to the House. The attention of the country had been drawn to this question, the resolutions had not been passed without discussion, the reasons on both sides were before the public, and it was perfectly obvious that nothing could make an impression on the House, and therefore they might as well let this resolution quietly pass. The responsibility fell entirely on his Majesty's Ministers; and he hoped that when the country and the House came to judge more coolly of the matter, they would do justice
 247
 Mr. Hume  contended that this country had no right whatever to rob the exchequer of the Canadas, and by so doing raise the people to that resistance which must ultimately lead to the separation of the colony from the mother country. When the people of the colony found the Tory faction joined with the administration of the day in carrying these coercive resolutions, would they not doubt the sincerity of that government, who professed themselves anxious to carry out all necessary reforms in the Canadas?
 Mr. Ewart  declared that he would support the amendment of the hon. Member for Ipswich. He thought the resolutions of the Government uncalled for, and worthy only of that party, the Tories, by whom they were supported.
 Lord John Russell  said, that if he had not risen earlier it was not from any disrespect to the Committee that he had for-
 248
 The Chairman  put the ninth Resolution—"That it is expedient that his Majesty be authorised to place at the disposal of the Legislature of the said province the net proceeds of his Majesty's hereditary, territorial, and casual revenue arising within the same, in case the said Legislature shall see fit to grant to his Majesty a civil list for defraying the necessary charges of the administration of justice, and for the maintenance and unavoidable expenses of certain of the principal offices of the civil government of the said province."
 The Chairman  then put the tenth Resolution—"That great inconvenience has been sustained by his Majesty's subjects inhabiting the provinces of Lower Canada and Upper Canada, from the want of some adequate means for regulating and adjust-
 250
 Sir Robert Peel  would take that opportunity of putting a question to the noble Lord, the Foreign Secretary. He wished to know in what position the difference of this country with the United States stood with respect to the disputed line of northeastern boundary? He wished to be informed whether that question had been adjusted, or whether any progress had been made towards an adjustment?
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that there had been a great many communications upon the subject between the governments of the two countries, and he could assure the right hon. Baronet that the government of each was animated by a sincere desire to come to an amicable arrangement. He must do this justice to the government of the United States, and to the late president especially, that the central government had laboured under great difficulty with regard to the negociation, from the circumstance of its discretion being limited by certain independent functions belonging to the government of Maine. There had not lately been any written communications on the subject, but many verbal communications had taken place between the government of this country and the American minister here, as well as between the British minister in America and the government of the United States. The whole correspondence upon the subject had been published by order of the Congress in the United States; and, on the publication, the right hon. Baronet would see all the official communications that had taken place upon the subject. He was sorry to say that there did not seem to be any prospect of an immediate settlement of the question.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know if there would be any objection to lay before the British Parliament all the papers that had been published upon the subject in America?
 Sir Robert Peel  asked whether the state of Maine was in the occupation of any portion of the disputed territory?
 Viscount Palmerston  thought, that the whole of the territory was at present in
 251
 Sir Robert Peel  did not exactly see how that arrangement could be made. The land must be occupied by one party or the other. Was he to understand that it was at present occupied by British subjects?
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that the district was not inhabited. The territory was chiefly covered with forests, and it was agreed that neither party should cut wood in it until the question was finally settled. As regarded the question put to him by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he begged to state that there could be no objection to produce all the correspondence that took place upon the subject, except that it would be a departure from a very wholesome rule generally acted upon in that country, of not producing any papers relating to negotiations still pending. As the papers in question, however, had been published by order of Congress, he did not see that there could be any objection in placing them before the House.
 Mr. Roebuck  thought, the noble Lord could not be aware that the government of Maine had passed some regulations which operated severely upon the neglected and destitute condition of the inhabitants of the disputed territory. The noble Lord said, that Great Britain was in occupation of the territory, but that she could not enforce the rights of occupation. The truth was that at that time there were a great number of persons who were cutting down trees, who were peopling the land, and who were called—a large portion of them—citizens of the United States. The population consisted, indeed, of refugees from both sides of the territory—rogues and vagabonds—who found there a safe asylum from the laws of either country.
 Viscount Palmerston  thought, that the hon. and learned Gentleman must refer to another part of the country, and not to the territory in dispute.
 Sir George Grey  observed, that the tribunal would be composed of a joint committee of the Legislatures of both provinces, sitting at Montreal, and deliberating in common on all matters relating to the interests of both provinces. It was not intended that it should sit as a court of impeachment or a court of appeal, but was to recommend measures for appointing such a court of appeal as should be applicable to both countries.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that he believed the noble Lord had a string of bills all tending to mitigate the severity of the Criminal law. Would it not be advantageous to codify them, and to comprehend them all in one statute?
 Lord John Russell  thought that it would be better to discuss the Bills separately. After the Legislature had discussed them, and made any alterations in them that might appear advisable, they might then perhaps be advantageously combined in one statute.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he was not aware that the Bills which the noble Lord had charge of would have been brought on that night, and he believed the greater part of the House was equally unprepared for the discussion of them. In the present state of the criminal legislation of this country it was necessary to deal with it effectively and to take a comprehensive view of the nature and effects of secondary punishments. He did not mean to say, that a defective state of our secondary punishments was a sufficient cause why the punishment of death should be increased or continued; but it was absolutely necessary that a complete notion of the effects of both should be had before legislation on the subject was proceeded to. The speech of the noble Lord, in introducing the Bills in question, was condemnatory of the punishment of death as an effective preventive of crime; but it was not more satisfactory in respect to the secondary punishments. For instance, he said that transportation was not an ef-
 253 John Russell: 254
 Lord John Russell  in the present state of public business, could not defer proceeding with this Bill. On a question which necessarily attracted the attention of the judges of the country, it was highly important that time should be given for the consideration of legislative measures in a state sufficiently advanced for the purpose. With respect to secondary punishments, the right hon. Baronet was perfectly right in stating it to be his opinion, that transportation and imprisonment were far less efficient as secondary punishments than he could wish them to be. That was a question, however, which did not bear quite so much upon the present Bill as the right hon. Baronet seemed to imagine. For he (Lord John Russell) did not pretend, that while the Bill limited the number of capital offences, it would have the effect of limiting the number of executions; the fact being, that although the existing law still retained capital punishments for the forgery of wills and powers of attorney, and although forgeries of wills and powers of attorney had occurred since the passing of that law, not a single execution for either of those offences had taken place. As to the documents respecting which the right hon. Baronet had inquired, he (Lord John Russell) had no others than those to which he had the other evening referred; but he agreed that it was highly desirable to collect all the information possible on the subject; and he would take care that if any existed it should be laid on the table of the House. He believed that the general result with respect to forgery was, not that that crime had diminished since the mitigation of punishment, but it had not increased; and the number of convictions in proportion to acquittals had greatly increased—a circumstance which, in his opinion, would operate very actively in the diminution of the crime. It had been distinctly shown that juries were very reluctant to convict of forgery when the punishment was capital. Before he proceeded with another stage of the Bill, he would take care to give due notice of his intention.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, there was another
 255
 Mr. Wallace  maintained, that the delay which existed in the public business, was entirely attributable to the other side of the House. See their conduct during the last week. The motion respecting Spain, was merely a party question, brought forward for the purpose of delaying the public business. He did not care for the cry of question, whether it proceeded from one side of the House or the other. He repeated, that there was evidently on the part of those who were opposed to his Majesty's Government, a systematic resolution to delay the public business.
 Mr. T. B. Lennard  suggested, that there should be a clause in the Bill providing that although the capital punishment was repealed, the offence should still be tried at the assizes.
 Mr. Jervis  wished the House to give the principle of the Bill further discussion. At all events, he approved of the suggestion of the hon. Member for Essex (Mr. Lennard) that all cases of forgery should still be tried at the assizes.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that if the House objected to the principle of the abolition of death in cases of forgery, they had better throw out the Bill altogether.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the noble Lord seemed to imply, by assenting to the second reading of this Bill, the House would be bound specifically to agree to the abolition of the punishment of death in all cases of forgery. He was not prepared at the present moment to go to that extent; he therefore hoped that, in allowing the Bill to be read a second time, he should not be precluded from making any objections which might hereafter appear to be proper, when the Bill should go into Committee.
 Mr. O'Connell  was of opinion that the principle of the Bill did not go far enough.
 Mr. Richards  said, as far as he could learn, the judges had always exercised the soundest discretion, and given the utmost satisfaction. He doubted the soundness of the principle set up to-night by the Gentlemen on the other side of the House, who thought that, by diminishing the punishment at present attached to the crime, they should materially diminish the number of burglaries. It was a received opinion, that men were acted upon by the hope of reward or the fear of punishment. He thought that the operation of a measure like this would be the reverse; and that there was a vice in its principle. The law affixed the penalty of death to burglary and wisely left it to the discretion of the judge, guided by the facts of the case, to determine the nature of the sentence. They had heard from the hon. Member for South Durham, that out of 432 convictions, in only one case was the penalty of death inflicted, these offenders,
 258
 Lord J. Russell  did not think it proper that the Secretary of State should have it in his power to say—"It is my opinion that such a law should not exist,"—as that which the judges had been already called upon to administer, in a case where they had reported that they could find no mitigating circumstances.
 Lord John Russell  said, with regard to the case suggested by the hon. Member for Finsbury, as to the liability which a man would expose himself to, if, being caught in the commission of a burglarious offence, he were to knock down or wound a constable in the attempt to effect his escape; it was merely necessary to say, that that would be a case in which the judge who tried it would certainly affirm, that that was not a case which this part of the law was intended to visit.
 Mr. Hume  did not like vesting discretionary power in judges. He would remind the House, of Lord Camden's  dictum 257
 Mr. Pease  was far from fearing that the discretionary power of the judges was abused; apprehensive, lest, in regulating or amending the existing law, they should too much narrow its exercise. To the judicious occasions upon which this had been put forth, and the beneficial consequences which had ensued from it, he could speak from personal observation.
 Mr. Wakley  thought the bill would alter the law for the worse. The object ought to be to make the law as certain as possible; but this bill actually offered a strong temptation to murder. Suppose a man to break into a house, and to be nearly taken, he would make a vigorous endeavour to escape and might knock down his antagonist. But doing so, and being seen by a constable, for example, to have put his foot in the house, he would subject himself to the punishment of death. If, to secure his escape, in the first instance, he was to commit murder, his situation would be not one wit worse than if he had only struck the constable, and been taken in his attempt to escape. It could not be the intention of the House to put the two offences on the same footing of punishment; for, if it were, instead of one case of murder, there would, be scores in a year.
 Mr. Ewart  objected to the discretion proposed to vest in the judge, though he knew that certain limits in these matters must be allowed to him. But that discretion should be as little as possible; and those limits should be so well defined and fixed, that he should not be readily able to pass them.
 Sir Robert Peel  there were 432 capital convictions for burglaries; and, out of these, only one carried into execution. The presumption of law was that, to meet the justice of all these cases, all the criminals should have been executed; but the fact was that the Secretary of State had opposed the judgment of the courts which tried them, and successfully intervened in 431 cases out of the 432. Ought such a power lightly to be abrogated?
 Sir Robert Peel  could not agree with his hon. Friend; for his argument, as to the results which the experience of our ancestors had arrived at, and the expediency of our imitating those results, would go to affix the penalty of death to every offence against person or property, however modified or mitigated by the circumstances attending it. He could not perceive the expediency or propriety of the doctrine which prompted our ancestors to exact the life of a man for robbing another man of his sheep. The question immediately be-
 259
 Sir Robert Peel  had understood by the noble Lord's former speech that the object
 256
 The Solicitor General : The judge under this act, would not be bound to sentence according to the finding of the jury, nor must the sentence be carried, of necessity, into execution. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that if, in this measure, we were making a retrograde movement in the course of consolidation already entered upon, we should be doing something that would be highly objectionable.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  did not think the punishment of death should be abolished in any of these cases without much careful consideration and for this reason—that the property of the subject required to be protected by the strong arm of the law; —If death were not inflicted in the more heinous cases, the crime of burglary would be fearfully increased. Very few persons undertook to commit a midnight burglary, who would not, if the exigency of the case required it, commit the crime of murder. He concurred in that part of the clause, which leaves the consideration of the question of carrying capital sentences into execution to the merciful consideration of his Majesty.
 The Attorney General  did not rise to oppose the Bill or to enter into any dis-
 278
 Major Gumming Bruce : Sir, my hon. Friend disclaims all intention of producing by this Bill any political feeling, and I am disposed to give him full credit for that declaration, but I must say, on looking over the clauses of the Bill, I do see in them powers given in some cases very unnecessarily, for the purpose of supporting the interests of particular parties. This, perhaps, is not the time to refer to that part of the Bill, it may be objected to when the Bill comes into Committee. The clauses to which I have particularly alluded, are those that give the power to the Crown of giving additional magistrates
 282
 Sir George Clerk : Sir, I shall offer no opposition to the second reading of this
 283 1. 284 l. l. l. l., l., 285 s. s. 286
 Mr. Chalmers .—In the Bill of last year, provisions were made that parties having an interest in the funds of these Corporations should form themselves into societies, by which those funds be administered. It is of the introduction of these provisions I now complain. I hope the hon. Member will, at least, introduce a clause to prevent the improper or lavish expenditure of these funds.
 The Lord Advocate .—Sir, with regard to what my hon. Friend says, that there ought to be a clause to prevent the improper distribution of the funds of the Corporation he would imply that a Corporation has a right to distribute its funds. It has no such right — a Corporation must exist according to its grant, and can only be dissolved by the terms of that grant. Having referred to that matter, I must state that I cannot agree with my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for the northern burghs, in what he said with respect to the two acts to which he alluded relative to the town clerks and the sheriffs. Instead of one Bill being contradictory of the other, the one Bill appoints compensation to be given, and lays the foundation for the other Bill. There has been an endeavour in this Bill to take advantage of every thing that is good in that Bill, and to add such provisions as may be desirable. Then, with regard to the police, there have been great representations from the royal burghs that due provisions were necessary with respect to that, and a great number of Bills have been brought up; but if this Bill is successful in its result, it will prevent the introduction of other Bills, which will be in itself a great advantage. Sir, I do not
 287
 Mr. Forbes : I cannot allow this opportunity to pass without stating that there are clauses in this Bill which I shall feel it my duty to oppose most decidedly. With regard to tardy legislation, I must say I would rather see slow justice, than injustice done rapidly—and I hope the hon Gentleman will not proceed too hastily in this matter.
 The Attorney-General : Sir, having presented several petitions—some praying that Edinburgh may be excluded from the provisions of this Bill, and others that it may be included in them— I feel it my duty to express my own sentiments upon the subject. Now, Sir, I differ entirely from the hon. Baronet, the Member for the county of Edinburgh. I think all Scotland ought to be under one uniform municipal system. There is no comparison to be made between Edinburgh and the cities of London and Westminster. The city of Edinburgh forms one community by the sending of Members to Parliament, and ought to form one corporation. I am roost anxious to have this Bill to
 288
 Mr. Andrew Johnston : Sir, I hope when this Bill goes into Committee, the objections which the burgh Members can make will be fully considered. It certainly would be desirable that this Bill should include in its provisions the city of Edinburgh (the capital of Scotland); though I agree with the hon. Member, the learned Attorney-General, that it may be expedient for the purpose of carrying the Bill through the House, this Session, that Edinburgh should be excluded. I had entertained a hope that the Bill would be considered a Government measure — that it would not be put off from Wednesday to Wednesday, and regarded as the Bill of an individual, but that it would take its place as a leading measure. If I, Sir, should find any intention of postponing this Bill, I shall, considering the lateness of the season, take an opportunity of proposing that the Bill shall be read this day six months, merely to mark the strong feeling I have upon the subject.
 Sir George Clerk  objected to the Bill, because it was quite unnecessary, and because it was an overloading of the Statute Book with minute laws. The whole of the legislation which it was intended to accomplish by it could have been included in six lines of the Bill, which had been just read a second time, or the Bill of the Lord Advocate, as ef-
 289 1.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, the burghs desired the measure for their own peace sake; they were in a most lawless state at present for want of an efficient system of police and a resident magistracy. Nothing could be better calculated to remedy the evils than the measure under consideration, as its great object was, to obviate them not alone in the burghs, but the incorporated towns. There were upwards of 130 petitions from the several burghs in its favour; he hoped, therefore, the House would pass the Bill.
 Major Cumming Bruce  conceived the Bill was altogether unnecessary, as a separate measure, as it could easily be embodied in either of the Bills for the municipal regulation of the Scottish boroughs then before the House. He should oppose the second reading.
 Dr. Bowring  supported the Bill. It was exceedingly popular in Scotland, and besides it was another step to the grand object of his side of the House, the great end of self government.
 Mr. Forbes  denied that the hon. Member, (Dr. Bowring) was entitled to assume to represent the popular interests of the country. On behalf of those popular interests he decidedly objected to this Bill.
 Mr. Dunlop  supported the Bill, which was very popular in the towns in his county. This measure was very much wanted, for many of the towns were actually without local magistrates, so that depredations were openly committed without fear of punishment.
 Mr. Pringle  felt considerable objections to the measure. It introduced changes unjustly affecting the arrangements and property of upwards of 100 burghs in Scotland. He was opposed to the powers given to the Commissioners, enabling them to fix the boundaries of the burghs in the most arbitrary manner.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  concurred in the
 290
 Lord John Russell  stated, in reply to a question from the right hon. Gentleman, that on the passing of the English Municipal Bill he had made inquiries as to the expense attending the grant of town charters, and he found that it amounted to 700 l. l., l. l.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, his object was not so much to oppose the Bill as to effect a consolidation of all the different Bills. He would, therefore, take an opportunity to move an instruction to the Committee for the consolidation of the Bills. He should also endeavour to introduce a clause similar to the one in the English Municipal Bill, empowering the Crown to grant charters upon the application of the boroughs. He also expressed a hope that the fees would be as far as possible remitted, even if the noble Lord should find it necessary to apply for an Act of Parliament for that purpose, and should in consequence withdraw his opposition to the Bill.
 The Solicitor-General  thought it would be advisable in the present thin state of the House not to debate the measure. He
 291
 Mr. C. Buller  stated, that he had no objection to the proposed arrangement.
 Mr. Wason  had no wish to oppose himself to the sense of the House, but he would move the amendment of which he had given notice—
 "That the principal evil of the present election law arises from its uncertainty, whereby decisions on either side of the most important questions may be given under the sanction of numerous precedents; that the establishment of a new tribunal for the administration of so uncertain a law must inevitably be attended with the following results:— 1. The public will be subjected to enormous expense to ascertain, not what is the law, but what such new tribunal may fancy ought to be the law. 2. Any tribunal called upon to administer an uncertain law, must be always suspected of improper motives, and of all judge-made law, that which involves political considerations is the most odious and the most liable to just suspicion. That these considerations render it most inexpedient to appoint a new tribunal for the administration of this uncertain law, unless that law should be rendered certain by the Legislature."
 Lord John Russell  concurred with his hon. and learned Friend in thinking, that it would be more advisable to take the discussion upon the Bill at a future stage. He should then be prepared to state some grave objections to the principle of the proposed measure.
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, that it was impossible that the present law should be allowed to exist. There was at present an Election Committee sitting, and the franchise of many of his tenants, as respectable men as any in that House, depended upon the vote of a single Member of that Committee.
 Mr. Bennet  was surprised that any Reformer could bring forward such a measure as that, and he was determined to give it every opposition in his power.
 Mr. Jervis  thought, that the sum at present demanded of freemen who sought to secure their rights, amounted to a positive prohibition of them to honest men. He should therefore support the Bill. He was convinced that the friends of reform
 292
 Mr. Wason  would support the Bill. He thought that the practice of candidates enabling freemen to take up their freedom was the first step to bribery.
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  should be sorry if the motion of the hon. Member for Coventry were not carried. He could speak in terms of well-merited eulogy of the freemen of the borough which he represented, many of whom gave him their independent support, of which he should always be proud.
 Mr. Tharnely  would support the propositions of the hon. Member for Wiltshire. He thought the retention of the freemen a blot on the Reform Bill, and therefore he would vote against reducing the difficulties of admitting them.
 Mr. Charles Buller  was understood to say, that he thought the House would not countenance the present system of admission, as it was one by means of which the admission fees would always be paid by candidates. The House should, therefore, pass the Bill before it.
 Lord John Russell  could not agree with the argument of the hon. Member who had spoken last, because he thought that a clause which required the payment of a certain sum for the purpose of taking out the freedom of a borough, would rather tend to promote bribery and corruption. The Bill before the House was introduced for the purpose of placing freemen in a better condition than they were before the Reform Bill; and though it was true that they were subjected to a tax for the right of voting, still it ought to be recollected that there was another class of voters who suffered infinitely more on that account, he meant those electors who could not vote unless they had paid up all their taxes before the 6th of April. He did not think the payment of taxes on a particular day was a fair imposition, because it was likely to deprive many 10 1. 1. 293 l.
 Mr. Lowther  could bear testimony to the general integrity of the freemen. They had now lost their right of exclusive dealing, and he did not think it too much to grant this boon to them.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if the House took off the tax upon the admission of freemen, they should be prepared to give facilities to the payment of rates and taxes by the 10 l.
 Mr. Mark Philips  observed, that having taken a part in the investigation of the Liverpool case, he felt so much disgust and indignation at the conduct of the freemen, that he was not prepared at first to give them exclusive advantages, while there was no extension of privilege to the constituency created by the Reform Act; but after what had fallen from the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, pointing out that this Bill might be made the means of opening more widely the 10 l.
 Lord John Russell  hoped the hon. Member did not misunderstand him. He had not said anything in favour of doing away with the rate-paying clauses, but he had urged the propriety of a relaxation of their provisions.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that it appeared to him that these two measures stood on distinct grounds. There was no connexion between them. If the hon. Member for Manchester was disgusted with the conduct of the freemen, and thought that by relieving them of this tax, he was giving them an undue advantage, he ought to vote against the Bill. The hon. Member said, that he had viewed the conduct of the freemen with disgust and indignation, but he was willing to grant them this boon if he could obtain any facilities for the 10 l. 294 l. l. l. l. 295 l. l. 296
 Mr. Wason  observed, that the remarks of the right hon. Baronet did not apply to him, as he had voted for his motion in 1831.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the taunts levelled by the right hon. Baronet at hon. Members sitting on his (the Ministerial side of the House) were richly deserved. He recollected when an immense body of Reformers in that House voted for disfranchising the freemen, and he certainly concurred with the right hon. Baronet in the surprise which he had expressed on that occasion. But he (Mr. Wakley) did not deserve those taunts. He had never been a party to any proceeding calculated to deprive freemen of the elective franchise. He had always voted in favour of the freemen, for he thought the poorer classes in England ought to be represented in that House. He would support the Bill, and was glad to find that the noble Lord was disposed, by the introduction of a clause in the Bill, to effect a relaxation of the law which, in its present shape, disfranchised thousands. Why should the freemen be required to buy their franchise by the payment of a pound? It occasioned bribery. The money in many cases came from the rich, who ought to be the parties punished; for the tempter should be punished, not the tempted. He knew many poor persons, however, who would suffer the loss of their bread rather than sacrifice their political independence. And was it the poor alone who were bribed? It had been proved that in Liverpool men worth 10,000 l. l. 297
 Mr. Brotherlon  would vote for the Bill, because it would prevent corruption. He wished that all classes should hay fair play, and the abolition of the rate-paying clauses would have the same effect as the exemption from the payment of the stamp duty on admission to freedom. For his own part, he had found among the poor greater integrity and honesty than among the rich.
 Sir Love Parry  bore testimony to the honesty and integrity of the poorer class of voters, and particularly to the excellent character of the scot and lot voters among his own constituents.
 Sir G. Clerk  also complained of the uncalled for increase in the number of the clerks of the Court of Session, which was most inconsistent with the expressed determination of the Government to carry economy into every branch of the public service. The duties of the office might have been perfectly well discharged by one of the four clerks of session, and much unnecessary expense would have been saved.
 Mr. O'Connell : I confess that it has been my most anxious wish to address the House upon this subject at the earliest possible period of the discussion. The regulations of the French Chamber would be more suited to my object than the rules and orders that prevail in this House. There the speakers are divided into those who speak for a measure, against a measure, and upon a measure. My intention was not to speak upon this measure. I am not for it. I do not think that it is likely to succeed. My own deliberate judgment is, that not only it will not succeed in mitigating the evils to be found in the present state of the poor of Ireland, but that its tendency will be to aggravate them much. Therefore I cannot advocate the measure. I do not mean to vote against it. I think it has now become inevitable, that we must have some measure of a Poor-law for Ireland. I yield to the necessity, while I regret it. There has been, for some time, an opinion prevailing in England, that a Poor-law in Ireland will prevent the evils arising from the emigration of the Irish labourer, and mitigate the misery of the English poor. Many men, too, in Ireland have taken up strong opinions lately in favour of a Poor-law, whose opinions formerly were in opposition to it. Several of the Catholic clergy too, are anxious for the measure. There are also many influential persons who heretofore imagined that political ameliorations would produce improvements in the state of the peasantry generally, and are now disposed to make this experiment. I confess that I am not decidedly opposed to it. It is, I know, an untried experiment. I am deeply convinced that Ireland never can obtain prosperity until she has a legislature of her own. That is my thorough, that is my decided conviction. The people are disposed to try whether that is a mistaken conviction: so am
 361 362 d. 1. 363 l. l. s. s. s. s. d. 364 s. s. 365 COUNTY ANTRIM.—"Doctor Forsyth observing a poor man's cabin blocked up on Sunday, he was induced to make inquiry, and found that he had not risen from his bed during the day, having nothing to eat." "The Rev. Mr. Brennan states, it would make your blood run cold to hear the tales of woe and misery that are told me in my confessional—the hardships of the poor are beyond endurance."—First Report, p. 401. COUNTY WESTMEATH.—"Instances have been known of persons having committed trifling offences for the purpose of being sent to prison, in order that they might obtain food and shelter."—First Report, p. 408. COUNTY CLARE.—"At all times of the year a large body of able-bodied men are out of work, but in summer there is the greatest scarcity of employment. The poor are then reduced to the greatest extremity, and are obliged to put up with just as much food as will keep life and soul together. Many is the man who thinks himself well off at that time with one meal a day." "The following case gives an idea of the distress to which these poor women are reduced when the cholera hospital was established. Notwithstanding the dread which was entertained of the disease, three poor widows feigned sickness to get admittance."—First Report. COUNTY LONDONDERRY.—"The widows are frequently reduced, with their children, to six pounds of potatoes a day. Spinning is the only employment to which they can have recourse."—First Report. "Two or three families occupy one room. We have found four families in a room; in one corner a woman who had just been delivered, lying on a little straw; no other straw in the room."—First Report. COUNTY ANTRIM.—"Many cases of death arise from starvation." COUNTY CORK—"Doctor Fitzgibbon is disposed to attribute much of the disease, which is at all times prevalent, to the use of bad food, and to the miserable state of the poor as to bedding and bed clothes. He has often found sick persons lying with a little damp straw between them and the ground."—First Report, p. 323. "The huts that labouring people live in are often such that they have scarcely a place to lie on, on account of the rain." "In point of clothing the state of a great portion of the labouring class is very wretched. The clothes, or rather rags, of many labouring men are utterly insufficient to protect them from the cold; many have no blankets, but make use of the clothes they wear during the day for the night covering." 366 COUNTY MAYO.—"Numberless instances were known of families, being unable to procure straw, cutting rushes for beds; still more, that for want of bed clothes they lie in the clothes they wear by day. Independent of rain from the roof, they cannot but be damp from their situation, as the most valueless (that is, swampy) piece of land is always selected to build them on, for fear of wasting any that might be profitable."—First Report, p. 292. "The Rev. Mr. Hughes mentions a case in which he was called on, about three months ago, to administer the rites of religion. The family had been attacked by the fever: he found the father and four out of the five children sick, and altogether on one bed of moist rotten straw: their only covering a single fold of what is called a poverty blanket, half wool and half tow."—First Report, p. 292. "In the parish of Burrishoole, in a population of 10,553, 3,931 were men and women destitute of necessary raiment; 9,553 of the total population were lying at the best on straw; and of those 7,0T0 were on the cabin floors."—First Report, p. 375. "In the parish of Kilmore Erris (Mr. Lyons says), according to a census which I made, there were 751 men who had no shoes; and out of a population of 9,000, 3,136 persons, male and female, who within five years had not purchased any article of clothing. According to the same census, of 1,648 families in the parish 388 have two blankets each; 1,011 have one blanket each; and 299 have no blankets at all. You may well be surprised at this; it surprised myself, although many years resident as parish priest."—First Report, p. 386. "Statement showing the Acreable Extent, the Population, distinguishing the number without employment, and those unable to work, and the Rental and Tithes of the Parish of Burrishoole, County of Mayo, deduced from the evidence in the First Report of Commission of Poor Inquiry (Ireland), session 1835—(369) pages 375–6. 
 
 ACREABLE EXTENT. 
 Number of acres of arable and pasture land 16,000 
 Number of acres of reclaimable mountain and pasture land 15,000 
 Number of acres of irreclaimable land 15,000 
 Total Number of acres 46,000
 Mr. Richards  was of opinion that the noble Lord was entitled to the thanks of the House and the country for introducing the measure now under discussion. The existence of deep and dire distress in Ireland was admitted by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny; and yet that hon. and learned Member declared that he was hostile to a Poor-law for Ireland. But the hon. and learned Member forgot that there was a Poor-law in that country already. The question therefore was—not whether Ireland should have a Poor-law or not—but whether that which now existed was the best that could be adopted; or whether the Legislature ought not to devise an amended and more useful measure. By the hon. and learned, Member's own
 389 390 391 392
 Colonel Conolly  could not understand how it was that, after a description which harrowed the feelings of every Gentleman present, of the frightful distress, which prevailed in Ireland, the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny could turn round and ask the House to suffer that distress still to exist. As to himself, however deeply he had ever sympathised with the sufferings of his countrymen, he must confess that at first he had come into the House filled with the most serious apprehensions as to the introduction of Poor-laws into Ireland; but his objections were founded on what he saw of the operation of the English Poor-law as it then existed. The alteration which had since been effected in the English system, and the happy effects of that alteration, had, however, relieved his mind in a great degree from the fear he had formerly entertained, and he should not withhold his consent from the experiment, though he should watch its progress with great anxiety.
 Mr. Cresset Pelham  was afraid that in generally assenting to the resolutions of the noble Lord he was, as a Member of the Lower House of Parliament, doing that which he should conceive the Crown had it in its power to do without the sanction of that House.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that according to the information which he had received, it appeared that the clerks of the Jury Court had already sufficient occupation, and it was not desirable to diminish the number.
 Mr. Grote  stated that his own Opinion with respect to these resolutions remained unaltered, and he therefore continued to regret the decision to which the House had come; he should hot, however, have troubled the House at all upon that occasion but for the unavoidable absence of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck), the Member for Bath, who was confined to his house by very severe indisposition. It was the intention of that hon. and learned Gentleman, if it had been possible for him to be present in the House, to have moved certain resolutions by way of amendment to those adopted by the Committee, for the purpose of recording his views upon the subject on the Journals of the House. He (Mr. Grote) held the resolutions framed by the hon. and learned Gentleman in his hand, and, without further comment begged to move them as an amendment upon the resolutions before the House.
 Mr. Robinson  begged to remind the hon. Member for Middlesex, who undertook to speak so authoritatively the opinions of the Canadians, that the sentiments both of himself and the hon. and learned Member for Bath bad been expressly repudiated
 359
 The Lord Advocate  moved the further consideration of the Report on the Court of Session (Scotland) Bill.
 Mr. Hume  reiterated his protest against the resolutions of the noble Lord as unjust and tyrannical, and calculated to do a great deal of harm, by exciting the feelings of the colonists still more strongly against this country, instead of allaying their present well-founded discontent. He was confident that a time would come when the people of this country would look back upon the proceedings of the Government and the House of the present day with the same feelings of abhorrence that they now did to the proceedings which were adopted against our North American colonies in 1774 and 1775.
 Mr. William S. O'Brien  said, in listening to the speech of the learned Member for Kilkenny—a speech in which he has displayed even more than his usual ability, the House must have been much struck with the touching and affecting picture which he drew of the miseries and privations of the Irish poor. I wish it were in my power to say this picture was overdrawn; but although he concentrated your attention upon the gloomiest part and excluded from your view the brighter portions of the scene, I cannot call his statements exaggerated, because they contained nothing, which, from my own observation and experience I am not able to confirm. After this successful appeal to the sympathy and compassion of the House, in behalf of our poorer fellow-countrymen, one would have imagined that the very last conclusion at which he could have arrived, would have been that which he has endeavoured to induce you to adopt. Indescribably disastrous, he says, is the present condition of the Irish poor. In the next sentence, therefore, we might have expected to hear him declare, that no experiment could be tried which could aggravate their wretchedness—and that it was our bounden duty to recur to experiment after experiment, until we had redeemed our country from the stain and the reproach which the continuance of such a state of suffering humanity had deeply engraven upon its government and legislation. But no! He tells you that for the remedy of these evils you must look to the operation of political measures—measures which, if beyond question beneficial, and if conceded in the largest spirit of liberality, could not possibly work out the effect which he ascribes, and justly ascribes, to good government, in a less period than twenty or thirty years. Will the passing of the Municipal Reform Bill, or the Irish Tithe Bill—measures the
 393 pro tanto l l 394 l l 395 l 396 397 398 399 400 401 402
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  agreed with the hon. and learned Member in his objection to the Bill now before the House, but he did not agree with him in the proposition that a Poor-law was not necessary for Ireland. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member, that England had been the cause of nearly all the evils under which Ireland laboured; but he would assert, that if there was one thing which had been more prominently the cause of those evils than another, it was the permitting the private appropriation and settlement of land in Ireland to take place without being accompanied by a Poor-law. It had been alleged, that a Poor-law was unjust, as it took the means and profits from the industrious man. Most certainly, he would never promote or permit (if he could prevent it) the enactment of a law calculated to produce such an effect. He considered the principle of a Poor-law was to make a provision against the injustice done to the poor man by the monopoly of the land. He knew that it was necessary to society that that monopoly should exist. Still the poor man must also exist; and as his existence depended on the produce of the earth, a Poor-law was essential where-ever a monopoly of the land was permitted. When they considered further, that the monopoly of the land was aggravated against the poor man by the operation of the Corn-laws, it was rendered more imperatively necessary that some measure of protection for him should be adopted. Neither a monopoly of the land, nor a Corn-law should be allowed, except protection were, either directly or indirectly, afforded to the poor man against the power of the landlord. If they did not directly interfere with the letting of the land, then they must indirectly interfere, by procuring that alternative which the well-being of the poor required. With regard to other species of property, money, for instance, the Legislature interfered and controlled the use of it. It determined that a man lending money should not charge an exorbitant interest for it, nor take advantage of the necessities of
 384 385 sine quâ non. l. l. 386 387 388
 Sir J. Graham  said, the question was, whether the duties of the office could not be discharged by gentlemen holding appointments in the law courts, who had no additional onerous functions to perform. The Jury Court had been abolished, and attached to it there were four clerks: 1,000 1. 360
 Sir W. Rae  objected to the appointment of an additional Clerk of Session, and to the selection of Mr. Napier, a gentleman whose time was occupied with the duties of a professorship, and with the editing of a review. Such a course was certainly little in accordance with the professions of a Government who boasted so loudly of the reductions which they had effected in the expenditure of the country, and the number of unnecessary offices which they had abolished.
 Viscount Morpeth  had heard the hon. Member's concluding remarks with particular satisfaction. The principles on which this measure was founded were now sufficiently established; namely the fright-
 403 404 405
 Mr. Pryme  would oppose the Bill in every stage, It was brought forward in opposition to the Reports of the Committee. The English Poor-law Bill worked badly, and, in his opinion, the introduction of this Bill into Ireland would be pernicious in its tendency. His chief objection to the Bill was, that all money raised was diverted from one channel to another. If you raise 100 l
 Lord John Russell  said, at that stage of the Bill, and the late hour of the night, he would not go into the details of the Bill, but would make a few observations in reply to some of the objections urged. He did not regret that these objections had been urged, because he thought it very
 451 452 453
 Mr. Lynch  was of opinion that it was necessary to give employment to the people of Ireland; but, in using the term "employment," he meant permanent employment, such as would give an increased facility to the landlords of employing their tenantry. He thought that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Kilkenny, if he knew Mr. Nicholls as well as he did, would agree that the zeal of that gentleman to serve Ireland was only to be equalled by his ability to do so. Destitution was not to be suppressed unless relief was given in a different mode to that suggested by the Bill. The calculations on which the Bill was based exceeded the whole amount of the population not occupying land in the year 1831, and would lead to the conclusion that every third adult person was in a state of starvation. These calculations did not take into account the labour of poor Irishmen in England and elsewhere, nor their avocations as fishermen or as other labourers, which they ought to have done. Mr. Griffiths himself had stated, that he had been compelled to stop his works in consequence of want of hands. He was of opinion that competition for land was one of the evils of Ireland. With respect to the remedy which emigration held out, he was not disposed to look upon it as likely to be extensively practicable. A family of fourteen persons had lately been sent out to colonize in New South Wales, and the expenses of their passage were 18 l
 Mr. Callaghan  was an ex-officio member of the board of the Mendicity Institution at Cork. Nothing worse could be devised than that institution, and if the noble Lord's measure were founded on the same principles, all he could say was, that this experiment would be productive of no good. 454
 Mr. Lucas : I entirely concur with the hon. Member who has just sat down, in deprecating any delay with regard to the present measure. We are now in a favourable conjuncture, both as regards the great demand for land throughout Great Britain, and as regards the temper in which the promulgation of this Bill has been received throughout Ireland. If we let slip this favourable opportunity, who can say when it will occur again? The hon. Member for Waterford city has congratulated the House on the manner in which this subject has been discussed here. I think we have still greater cause of congratulation in the manner in which it has been received by all classes in Ireland. No intemperate meetings have taken place, no party sentiments have been expressed—all seem to await with calmness and content the
 442 443 l l s d l s d l l l l l 444 l l s l l l s l s 445
 Mr. Shaw  did not rise to enter into a discussion on the principle of the Bill, but to offer a suggestion for the consideration of the House. He was willing to give his Majesty's Ministers credit for having gone so far to conciliate both sides of the House on this question, but he did not think he could equally accord it to them for a knowledge of the right remedy. That Poor-laws Were inevitable for Ireland no man could now doubt. The question then was, what system was best calculated for that country? He was afraid that his Majesty's
 430 s d
 Mr. Barron  said, he was one of those who were in favour of a measure similar to that which had been already tried in England. Nor was a Poor taw altogether untried in Ireland, where the houses of industry had been found to work well, their only fault being, that their means were not sufficient to provide for a very large portion of the poor. From his own knowledge, he could assert that in Waterford, they had been of immense benefit in proportion to their funds, and the poor of Ireland would be glad to see the principle of them carried out to a greater extent.
 422 pro tanto 423
 Mr. Wyse  said, that he could not agree with the right hon. the Recorder of Dublin in thinking that the discussion of this question should be delayed. On the contrary, it appeared to him to have reached the precise stage in which it was incumbent upon this House to take it up. Committee on Committee, commission on commission, report on report had amply discussed it. It had been for months past the subject of debate in every possible form—in public meetings and in the public press. It was now time that the constituencies of the country, reasoning on these various data, should, through their representatives in Parliament, express their opinions, and by mutual communication and comparison arrive, if possible, at some general conclusion. He. (Mr. Wyse), for one, had waited for such occasion; he had always considered a Poor-law not as a panacea for the ills of Ireland, but as one remedy only, and he might say the last, which should be applied to her cure. He considered it as a means of extinguishing or mitigating whatever surplus of misery might be left (and such must be found in the best regulated communities) after other measures had been tried to restore her to sound health. To apply it before such measures
 431 432 433 434 435 s l l 436 437 438 439 440 441
 Sir Robert Bateson  fully agreed with the hon. Members who had gone before him, that this at least, was a question which ought to be discussed without reference to party politics or adverse creeds, and it was a subject upon which all parties could and ought to unite to procure a good Poor Law for Ireland. The hon. Member for Water-ford talked of the barracks in Ireland being hereafter converted into poor houses. His wish and prayer was, that it might be so, but the hon. Member must excuse him, (Sir R. Bateson), for saying, that he feared he was rather too sanguine in his expectations. He was rather afraid, though he hoped in God it might not take place, that the poor houses would hereafter be turned into barracks, unless the present system of government adopted in Ireland were abandoned. It was not recently that he had become a convert to the necessity of some system of Poor Laws for Ireland. He had always been an advocate for some provision for the poor before the subject became quite so fashionable in that House, as it had latterly done. He was always an advocate for providing relief for the impotent, the lame,
 424 425 vice versa 426 l 427
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he begged to differ from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, as to the reason he had given for objecting to the principle of this measure. It appeared to him, that if the objection the hon. Gentleman had urged were valid with regard to an Irish Poor-law, it would be equally so against any Poor-law whatever, because it was utterly impossible to raise money for such a purpose, without, in some degree, diminishing the fund to be expended in the employment of productive labour. The same objection was, applicable to every case in which money was raised by way of a rate. It was urged that a Poor-law in Ireland would put an end to all private charity—to all voluntary acts of relief—because it took away from the fund which would otherwise be devoted to the employment of labour; but he apprehended that the just object of a Poor-law was not the employment of productive labour, but the establishment of a provision for the poor in cases of extraordinary destitution. It could not, however, reasonably be expected, that, even were employment so general that the most active stimulus to industry existed, there would not always be some cases where destitution, want, and misery would have a strong claim upon the benevolence of charitably-disposed individuals. If, then, such was the case, it was not fair to say, that one class of persons should, from their charitable motives, be driven to the necessity of maintaining the destitute. The real object of a Poor-law was to provide for the destitute, and the moment they carried the principle of a Poor-law beyond that, then it would be that they would be rendering it open to the objection of the hon. Member for Cambridge. Let them go back to earlier times than the date of the 43rd of Queen Elizabeth; let them go to the reigns of Henry 8th, and of Edward 6th, and they would find that the necessity of compulsory relief of the poor and destitute was even then felt. Parties, in the first instance, were asked before the clergy for voluntary contributions, afterwards sent before the bishop, and then: before the justices of the peace, by whom, if they still refused to give them, they were liable to be committed. So that even, at that early period, they did, in fact, avoid the imposition of an unjust and unequal burthen—of a burthen that bore, heavily on any one particular class. They did, at that early period, show by their ultimate application of a compulsory prin-
 447 448 449 450
 Mr. Denis O'Conor  had always been of opinion that some legal provision for the poor was necessary. That opinion had been much increased during the present debate, even by the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny. The calculations of Mr. Nicholls were in his judgment erroneous, although he gave him every other credit. He thought that the power proposed to be given to the commission was a most extraordinary one; its effect would be, not to give a Poor-law to Ireland, but to give the Commissioners the power of making a Poor-law for it—of, in fact, distributing the whole
 428
 Viscount Clements  concurred in the principles of the present Poor-law proposed by his Majesty's Government for Ireland. There was one point, however, in which he could not at all agree, and that was connected with the power which the board or boards in London were to have of dispensing with the election of guardians. He was of opinion that the task of ascertaining
 429
 Viscount Morpeth  rose, and spoke as follows:—When I remind this Committee that I now rise for the third time to move for leave to bring in the fifth Bill which,
 409 l l 410 411 l l 412 l l 413 414 l s d 415 s s l l l l 416 417 418 "With respect to the oath before mentioned, taken by the clergy at institution, to keep, or cause to be kept, an English school, according to the provisions of the Act of Henry 8th, we have to observe, that, from the great change that has taken place in the circumstances
 419 420 421
 Mr. Wynn  said, that it was quite contrary to the rules of the House that a petition should be received which set forth that the petitioners would resist the rules of Commissioners appointed by Act of Parliament.
 Mr. Wynn  suggested, that the hon. Member should withdraw the petition, and endeavour to have the part in question altered.
 Mr. Borthwick , in pursuance of his notice, rose to call the attention of the House to the subject of the convocation of the clergy. He requested the House simply to give to the question a calm consideration. The ecclesiastical body had been placed for nearly a hundred years in a singular position, as self regulation had been allowed to all other corporate bodies. From the length of time that had elapsed it had been all but forgotten that a convocation was recognised by the constitution of the country. He had intended to bring in a Bill to remodel the constitution of the convocation so as to make it practically useful; but if he had done so he might have appeared to give his sanction to the principle that laymen sitting in Parliament had a right to legislate on the internal affairs of the Church. The Church of England was placed in an anomalous and most unfavourable position; its concerns were managed by legislators, many of whom were inimical or indifferent to its interests. Had the convocation been sitting at the time when the Registration of Marriages Bill was introduced into Parliament, the noble Lord would not have been obliged to postpone its operation for several months, as he would have been enabled by the advice of that body to put its details in such a shape as would have admitted of its being carried into effect immediately. Hon. Gentlemen would naturally associate with the name of convocation bitter feelings and discreditable altercations. It was true, that the contentions of that body had been such as would disgrace any deliberative assembly, but this was to be ascribed to the unsettled state of the Church for a long time subsequent to the Reformation. Previous to that great event the Church of Rome had struggled to grasp a larger share of power than the genius of the constitution could grant to it, and the same spirit was visible afterwards, at various periods, down to the extinction of the convocation in 1717, sometimes taking the form of disputes between the whole body of the clergy and the Legislature, or of collisions between the higher and lower houses of convocation. The assembly of the Church of
 459 460 servus servorum Dei,
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  seconded the motion, and contended, that, as the clergy were not directly represented in that House, they ought in some way to be enabled to take a part in their consultations as regarded matters connected with the interests of the Church. This was the more necessary at present, when so many motions of great importance were daily brought under their consideration on the subject of Church reform. The destitution of the working clergy was often alluded to in that House. What tribunal was more fit to submit the consideration of it to than the convocation? In the case also of clergymen who might have disgraced their sacred calling, who were more fit to give judgment than an assembly of the clergy themselves?
 Mr. Hume  congratulated the hon. Gentleman on his motion, and on the full attendance of Members on his side of the House. He believed, that during the greater part of the speeches of the hon. Mover and Seconder there had been one solitary Member on the Opposition benches. With respect to the motion, by all means if the convocation was still an existing institution, let it be in the exercise of its full powers. But certainly, when the hon. Member brought in his Bill he should move a clause to relieve the bishops from their, attendance in the House of Lords, as they then would have an opportunity of attending to their affairs in their own convocation, and a very
 461
 Lord John Russell  must express his dissent from the views of the hon. Member even if a convocation were to meet, its regulations and resolutions would have no effect without the sanction of Parliament. For his part, he could not see the advantage of reviving the religious disputes of the reign of Queen Anne, nor could he conceive that the hon. Member's motion was at all in concurrence with the views of the Church itself. He should not now, however, enter into any arguments on the subject. Indeed, it would be highly inexpedient that a debate on this question should proceed in the absence of the Members of the Universities, who, he had observed, had left the House since the debate had opened.
 Mr. Forbes  suggested the withdrawal of the motion.
 Mr. Borthwick  had no objection.
 Mr. Hindley  objecting to the withdrawal of the motion,
 Mr. Pryme  rose to move the appointment of a Committee of the whole House, to consider the expediency of reducing such duties on foreign commodities as give rise to extensive smuggling, especially those on tobacco and foreign spirits. The hon. Gentleman was proceeding to explain the object of his motion, when the House was counted out.
 Major Beauclerk  said, that this was a point of very great importance to the country. He heard everywhere the question—why do you put an extinguisher on the petitions of the public? A quarter of an hour could not be mis-spent in the discussion of petitions.
 Mr. Harvey  remarked, this was the petition of parties who had no representatives in that House.
 Mr. Warburton  rose to order. If the hon. Gentleman was allowed to proceed it would break through a very convenient rule.
 The Speaker  said, this was a very important question, and one which ought to be decided either in one way or the other. He would state what was the practice of the House. There were many Members of that House who were aware of the former practice, from having had, like himself, for nearly thirty years, a seat there. When he first entered the House, and for some time after, no one was allowed to read a petition, or to do more than state its prayer. The practice of addressing the House on the presentation of petitions had arisen subsequently, and after many expedients had been tried, none of which met the approbation of the House. He had, when he was placed in the Chair, reverted to the ancient practice, in accordance with what he deemed his duty to the House and to the public. This was the third Session in which, with the concurrence, as he thought, of the House generally, he had endeavoured to enforce the rule; and he could assure the House he felt himself placed in a very difficult situation when any such circumstances as the present arose. He very much wished that the House would come to some decision on this point, by which he might in future be guided. He would only add, that he had endeavoured to do his duty to the House and to the public in enforcing this rule; and he would say it had been the means of saving a very great deal of time to the House, and saving the time of the House was doing justice to the country.
 The Speaker  requested the hon. Member to read that part of the petition in which this determination to resist the law was declared.
 Mr. Fielden  said, that the petition was from Bury, and he would read the whole petition, as he thought it only fair that the House should be in possession of the allegations on which the petitioners grounded their determination [ Cries of Chair 456
 Mr. Fielden  was proceeding to address the House, when
 Mr. Fielden  then proceeded to read as follows "Your petitioners have seen with scorn and disgust the same disregard to moral principle evinced in the low cunning and deceit with which the Commission under the pretence of having no object in view, but to carry into effect the Act for the Registration of Births, Marriages, and Deaths, have attempted to foist the new Poor-law on those manufacturing districts in which there exists a general conviction that its enforcement will be destructive of the peace of society, and of the security of life and property. Your petitioners, convinced of the illegality, as well as the moral turpitude of the proceedings of these Commissioners, and denying the right of executive officers to issue rules and regulations inconsistent with the law of the land, have determined not to pay the slightest regard either to their orders, or of any officers under their control." For his part he admired and approved of this determination of the petitioners, and he hoped they would be successful in their disobedience. He moved that the petitions be referred to the Committee on the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Fielden  having presented a great number of petitions, praying for a total repeal of the Poor-law Amendment Act: proceeded to remark upon the extreme unpopularity of the New Poor-law in the manufacturing districts. In one of these petitions the petitioners stated their determination to resist the enforcement of this law amongst them.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  begged to move, that the hon. Member for Oldham be heard in support of these petitions. This would bring the matter directly before the House.
 Mr. Wakley  thought, that the hon. Member was strictly in order as he was only reading an extract from the petition in question.
 Sir James Graham  suggested, that the petition be read by the clerk at the table.
 Sir Robert Inglis  submitted that the hon. Member was out of order in the course he was pursuing.
 Mr. A. Trevor  rose to order. It was not right that the hon. Member should proceed to take up the time of the House.
 Lord John Russell  certainly considered that the safe custody of the public records, and the arrangements for their publication, should be placed in different hands. He also thought that it was highly desirable that the public records should be kept in one place, under the custody or general superintendence of some high official person, such, for instance, as the Master of the Rolls. He had had communications with the Master of the Rolls on the subject of this Bill, and if it were the pleasure of the House to go on with the Bill, he would propose many alterations founded on those communications, and comprising the several points he had stated. If it were not the pleasure of the House to proceed with this Bill, he (Lord J. Russell) should be prepared to bring in a new Bill on the subject.
 Sir F. Trench  concurred in the object of the Bill.
 Sir R. Inglis  objected to appointing any officer to take care of the records. He thought that they ought to be left in the care of the chief judge. The point of chief importance, however, was to render the public records accessible, and next, to provide a more convenient place to which to transfer them. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer should propose to appropriate a large sum yearly for their arrangement.
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that it would be better to postpone any definite arrangement on this subject until the accommodation was provided which was essential for the satisfactory custody of the records. He certainly agreed with the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) that it would be better to commit the custody of the records to a high judicial officer, who by name and station appeared to be pointed out as the most competent authority. He of course must have the assistance of some subordinate officer, appointed by himself and for whose conduct he should be responsible. He wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this subject. It was a general impression that part of the building of the new House of Parliament was to be devoted to the custody of the public records. He wished to ask whether it was the intention of his Majesty's Government to submit any proposition to the House for the purpose of putting in a train of execution the plan of Mr. Barry, and whether it was intended to propose as part of that plan that the large tower should be appropriated to the reception of the public records?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the Government had abstained from taking any steps with respect to the report that had been laid upon the table of the House until every Member of the House should have had a full opportunity of considering the subject. With respect to the other question, he had had frequent communications with the Board of Commissioners of Woods and Forests, and the Record Commissioners as to whether the tower proposed to be erected by Mr. Barry's plan would be an appropriate and convenient depository for the public records. The opinions they had pronounced were favourable to the proposition. They thought that the tower would be sufficient
 465
 Mr. W. Williams Wynn  was glad this motion had not been mixed up with former controversies. All agreed that it was fit and proper to make some provision for the safe custody of the records; but some provisions of the Bill were premature, and would come time enough when a building was provided. He should be glad if the proposed tower would supply sufficient and convenient accommodation. The most fit person to be keeper was the Master of the Rolls. So far back as the time of Edward 1st, the situation was filled by that officer. It would, perhaps, be the more convenient course to prepare and arrange the records in their present depositories before sending them to the general place of reception. As to fees, he agreed with his hon. Friend that they were no more a question of principle than the stamp duties. After what had fallen from the noble Lord, with respect to his intention of hereafter proposing some additional clauses to the Bill, he did not feel disposed to give any opposition to its being read a second time.
 Mr. Wilks  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke in thinking, that the subject under consideration would be best provided for if left entirely to the discretion of the Government.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished the sense of the House had been taken on the Bill. He should certainly have voted against it, in order to show his repugnance to commissions in any shape.
 Mr. Galley Knight  thought, that the great object which the House ought to have in view, was to prevent in future that great expenditure which had hitherto been incurred by the unnecessary printing of the records.
 Mr. Jervis  begged to remind the gallant Member for Lincoln, that the Record Commission did not originate with the present Government. If the hon. and gallant Member read the Bill attentively, he would find that its tendency was to remove the necessity for any commission.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  had no objection to the proposed Committee, but till the hon. Gentleman's contemplated resolution was before them, he could not say whether it was objectionable or not. If, upon examination, he considered the plan of the hon. Gentleman practicable and likely to be beneficial, it should have his support: if, on the contrary, he found it to be liable to objections, of course he should state what his objections were.
 Mr. O' Connell  had been called on by some very influential individuals in Ireland to support the motion for the Committee, and also to support any measure that might be introduced to allow of the grinding of foreign corn in this country and in Ireland. A few years ago Ireland exported corn almost exclusively—that was to say, grain without being ground. One of the most successful of the manufactures that had been establised in Ireland was the manufacture of grain of home growth, and the millers of that country now sent out flour, and supplied oatmeal, to a great extent; mill-power, too, might be increased in Ireland almost to an infinite degree. It would therefore confer a great benefit on that country to allow them to grind foreign grain, and take the miller's profit on it. He hoped that under these circumstances the House would feel the expediency of encouraging that branch of industry in Ireland.
 Sir J. Tyrrell , after remarking that he thought the hon. Member for Worcester had spoken with undue severity of the agricultural interests, proceeded to state that smuggling in malt was carried on to a great extent in Ireland. He believed that gentlemen who drank Guinness's stout were not perhaps aware of the manner in which brewers in that country got their;
 467
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the proper mode of answering all the objections thrown out upon this subject would be to go into a Committee. He was sure, that his excellent friend Mr. Guinness ought to feel extremely obliged to the hon. Member opposite for the puff he had given to his porter; but at the same time he thought it due to that gentleman to do all in his power to remove from him the imputation which the hon. Member's observations seemed to convey. Whilst he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not deny that frauds upon the revenue were carried on to a considerable extent in Ireland, he thought he could assert that it was not on the part of establishments like that of Mr. Guinness, but by the smaller dealers in the country. In fact, Mr. Guinness was one of the deputation who waited upon him some time back on this very subject.
 Sir J. Tyrrell  explained that he did not mean to cast any personal imputation against Mr. Guinness in this matter, whom he did not know from Adam.
 Mr. Heathcote  was opposed to the proposition of the hon. Member for Worcester, as one very likely to increase the frauds and evasions which were already carried on against the revenue by means of the bonded system. He thought that before the hon. Member asked the House to agree to his motion, he should be a little more clear in his statement of his intentions on the subject.
 Sir C. Broke Vere  thought it best to have the Corn-laws as they were. They had worked as well as any laws of the kind could be expected to work He was therefore opposed to the present motion, as the first step towards a repeal or alteration of those laws, but as he did not see any likelihood of successfully opposing it he should not go to a division. He only hoped that if the House did any thing in the matter they would use necessary caution to prevent frauds upon the revenue, or injury to the agriculturist. He hoped that foreign corn intended for manufacture for exportation would be kept under lock and key, and not allowed to be mixed up in the general stores of the exporter.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that he would take
 468
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, there was one inconvenience which attended the hon. Gentleman's proposition, and which ought to convince him of the necessity of pursuing some other course. That might be regarded as a committee on trade, and before they affirmed the hon. Gentleman's resolution he thought the hon. Gentleman ought to be required to state the nature of the proposition which he meant to embody in the Bill to be founded upon it. If the resolution were to be passed what would be the consequence? Why, that they would be obliged to direct the Chairman to bring in a Bill in accordance with it. This rendered it essential that they should know what the Bill was to be before they proceeded to the discussion of the re-
 469
 Mr. Robinson  said, if the intention of the Government was to allow corn to be ground Only under lock, that was a course of proceeding which he considered so restricted, and of so little advantage to trade and commerce, that he would be no party to it. But if the Government would allow him to bring in a Bill to take a certain quantity of foreign corn out of bond for grinding on condition that an equal quantity of English flour or biscuit were exported, or if the right hon. Gentleman would bring in a Bill and allow him to move clauses in Committee in accordance with his view, he should be perfectly satisfied. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would either take his Bill, or introduce one of his own.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that as a Bill, embracing the object which the hon. Member for Worcester had in view would have no chance of being carried, the better way would be for the Government to accede to the hon. Gentleman's proposition for bringing in a Bill themselves and allowing him to improve it in the Committee. That was the only way to proceed without losing time unnecessarily.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  thought the hon. Member for Worcester had placed the House in a most extraordinary position. The hon. Gentleman called on them to affirm a resolution without saying a word about the Bill which he was desirous of introducing. This was not the way to proceed, but, having placed his resolution on the table, it would seem that the hon. Gentleman was quite indifferent as to whether the Bill should be brought in or not. Now he, (Sir E. Knatchbull) considered this motion as nothing more nor less
 470
 Mr. Pryme  was friendly to the agricultural interest, but still he was not anxious to continue restrictions which tended unfairly to fetter the commerce of the country.
 Mr. George F. Young  was favourable to the principle of the motion. This principle had been tried in 1824 by Mr. Huskisson, when he brought forward the Grinding Act. That Bill, as an experimental Bill, had been in operation for a year, and during that time there was no single instance of fraud having occurred under it. He had recently ascertained that foreign ship biscuit was introduced by shipowners into this country on payment of 20 l
 Mr. W. Roche  had no objection to the proposition of the hon. Member for Worcester, provided they were afforded sufficient security against the occurrence of frauds.
 Mr. Hume  regretted to see the House of Commons take up their time in discussing the question whether a few pounds of flour
 471
 Mr. Wallace  maintained, that the landed interest was opposed to the general interests of the country, and regretted that the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade joined with the landed interest. He should decidedly vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Worcester.
 Mr. Clay  recommended the hon. Member for Worcester to close with the proposal of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for Middlesex, that it was discreditable to the advocates of the agricultural interest in that House to oppose a measure advantageous to the commercial and shipping interests of the country, not because that there was any danger that the monopoly enjoyed by the agricultural interest would be destroyed, but that they feared it would lead even remotely to the invasion of that monopoly. The agricultural interest at present possessed a most grinding monopoly, and it was not decent
 472
 Sir C. Broke Vere  was sorry to hear the observations that had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, because he did not think that the subject Under discussion by any means called for them. The hon. Member claimed the credit of just motives for the party with whom he acted, and he ought not to refuse to others that credit which he claimed for himself. He did not think that any advantage could arise from using harsh terms or casting imputations. He did not think that such a course was at all calculated to promote that good temper and good understanding which it was desirable should pervade the debates in that House.
 Sir J. Tyrrell  did not approve of that battledore and shuttlecock work of legislation, by which a Bill was tossed from a Member at one side of the House to a Member at another. The hon. Member for Worcester appeared opposed to the proposition that corn should be ground under lock. The hon. Member had stated no plan. It was desirous that the hon. Member should state one, for it might be a proposition to which he could accede. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had complained of the want of argument at that side of the House. However, the complaint came badly from the hon. Member, for there was so little argument in what he had himself said that he was inclined to consider him the representative of the heavy clays.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, there was a general resolution before the House, and if it was affirmed it would then become the duty of the hon. Member for Worcester to introduce a Bill to carry the objects of that resolution into effect. Now, he had an objection to one plan that had been suggested, and how was he to know but that the very plan to which he was opposed would be brought forward by the hon. Gentleman? He was, therefore, before concurring in this resolution, anxious to know what plan the hon. Member intended to bring for-
 473
 Mr. Robinson  said, that, of course, if the resolution should be affirmed it would be necessary to introduce a Bill. He would much rather that the Bill should be brought in under the auspices of the President of the Board of Trade, because it would then come forward under advantages which could not be expected if the measure rested in the hands of any private individual. But if the Government would not bring forward a Bill he would. His proposition would be this, that a power should be given to take any quantity of corn out of bond, and that the party should export an equivalent quantity of flour and biscuit, under such restrictions as would afford a sufficient protection against frauds. As a commercial man he could not consent to bring forward a measure upon the plan of the President of the Board of Trade. He did not say if by a vote of the House his measure was reduced to the limits of that plan he would not accept it, but he would much rather have his own, and he would not voluntarily take the other.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  now understood the proposition of the hon. Member, and felt bound to oppose it; for his experience of a former Bill, enabled him to say, that such a Bill as the hon. Member proposed was calculated to open the door to extensive frauds. The Bill of 1824 had been in operation for only twelve months, and yet extensive frauds had been committed under it. That Bill provided that for a certain quantity of corn taken out of bond a certain quantity of flour should be exported. Now, corn varied in its quality, and it was the practice to take out the finest corn, which was capable of producing the greatest quantity of flour, which flour was brought into consumption in this country, whilst from inferior corn an inferior description of flour was produced for exportation, and which was further deteriorated by being mixed with chalk and other matters. He contended that such a Bill
 474
 Mr. Estcourt  was glad that the hon. Gentleman opposite had expressed his intention of not supporting the resolution. He was however, sorry that the hon. Member who had brought the matter before the House had thought it necessary in the performance of his duty to speak so strongly against the agricultural interest. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had pursued a similar line of conduct in bringing the subject of the Corn-laws before the House, and had been checked by a sensible and temperate reproof from his hon. Friend the Member for Suffolk. That reproof had double force from the good temper with which it had been made, and might have served as a warning on the present occasion. He should certainly oppose the resolution.
 Mr. Hume  was anxious that the House should perfectly understand what the right hon. the President for the Board of Trade
 475
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  denied, that he did not fully estimate the advantages likely to accrue from an increased employment of ships, men, add capital. He was fully alive to their full value, and if his hon. Friend opposite would bring in a Bill on the present subject, which would give him the means of calling into activity an additional number of men and ships he would willingly support it; but he could not consent to any measure which, like the present, would only be a cloak for smuggling.
 Mr. George F. Young  thought, that the light hon. the President of the Board of Trade had been rather unfortunate in one of the arguments which he had used. He said, that a better description of corn might be taken out of bond, and an inferior sort sent out of the country in its place. He also asserted that, to prevent this fraud, it was impossible to strike an average accurately, in consequence of the quality of corn varying considerably. Now, in place of an average let him take the  maximum 476
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the Bill desired by the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, would only have the effect of bringing the excise officers into the private concerns of those desirous of grinding corn in bond; and who, he would ask, could act with an excise officer watching every motion? What was the meaning of fraud, of which the right hon. Gentleman spoke? Nothing more than the addition of another slice of bread to a starving family. The Corn-law monopolists, however, were not willing to grant even that poor boon. They hailed with triumph the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman, and thanked him to the skies for acting on their side. The present discussion would, however, more injure the Corn-law system than any speech which could be made against it.
 The Attorney-General : I feel myself under the necessity of opposing the second reading of this Bill, but by no means on the ground that the existing law does not require improvement. I apprehend, however, that the promoter of the Bill is bound to prove, first that the law requires improvement; secondly, that this Bill would be an improvement of the law. Now the first of these propositions has, I think, been most completely demonstrated by the hon. and learned Member. As to the second, I think, with great respect to him, that he has utterly railed. Now, that the present state of the law of libel is defective and Unsatisfactory, I readily allow. I agree With every word that was said by the hon. and learned Gentleman on that subject in the course of his speech; and I perfectly subscribe to the tribute which he has paid to the great qualifications and important services, as a judge, of the distinguished individual he referred to it is one thing to say, that the law is defective; another, to suggest how it should be remedied. I acknowledge that the present law is defective; and if there were any probability, in the present state of the business of the House, of carrying through Such a Measure, I myself, humble individual as I am, would most eagerly undertake to bring in a Bill to amend the law of libel. But, Sir, so lamentable is the present state of public business in this House, that I, for one, quite despair of Succeeding in Such an attempt. I have, myself, prepared four or five Bills connected with alterations and improvements in the law upon this and other matters. But what encouragement is there to bring in new Bills? On the very first day of the
 484 ex officio 485 ex-officio ex officio ex parte primâ facie ex parte ex officio 486 487 ex officio "No civil action shall be maintained for any words,' merely because of the same being printed or written, or for any other words, save for such as would be sufficient to sustain an action when spoken; neither shall any indictment be sustained for any personal libel, save for such words as would sustain an action according to this Act." 488 489 O'Connell 490 totics quoties, bonâ fide, 491 s. 492 s. l l l l l l 493 l l l millionnaire Primá 494 facie,
 Mr. Jervis  said, that if the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny had proposed this Bill as a perfect measure on the law of libel, and one which ought to be passed into a law during the present Session, he should have been disposed to agree with the Attorney-General that it was too imperfect to be allowed to pass a Second reading. But inasmuch as it was admitted on all hands that the present law of libel was most defective, and inasmuch as the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny had laid down in the Bill certain general principles as to that defective state of the law, and as to the necessity of its reformation, with a view that the Bill itself should be referred to a Committee up stairs, he (Mr. Jervis) thought that, as a nucleus of a reform of the law: of libel, the Bill ought to be read a second time. It would be the commencement of a reformation, the necessity of which was
 495 six months' imprisonment, and only l fine; ex officio ex officio ex officio per se, 496
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that the hon. and learned Attorney-General having made a personal charge against him, and alluded to a motion which he had recently made, as affording an instance of the desire which was assumed to be entertained by hon. Members generally to postpone practical legislation to theoretical disquisition, he begged to inquire of the hon. and learned Gentleman whether, by "practical legislation," he meant the discovery and application of an imaginary surplus, with which the House had been recently occupied for a considerable period, upon the motion of a Minister of the Crown? The hon. Gentleman then expressed himself favourable to the principle of introducing some reform into the law of libel.
 Sir Frederick Pollock  entirely concurred with all those hon. Gentlemen who had
 497 ex officio ex officio s. s. l 498 499 Annual Register,
 Mr. Poulter  said, that so many changes were required in the existing law of libel, and so few of them were embraced in the measure now before the House, that he could not give his sanction to its second reading, for which, indeed, no sufficient grounds had as yet been laid. The Bill by its 5th Clause, appeared to him to contract and almost annihilate the right of action for libel, and it left private character open to the most calumnious misrepresentations without re-dress. Instead of lowering the law of libel to the level of the law of slander, as the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny did by this Bill, he would reverse the position, and make the utterer of slanders upon private character and public worth in speeches well calculated to excite the passions of the many thousands to whom they might be addressed, deeply responsible. He thought, also, that provisions ought to be made in any measure designed to alter the existing law of libel to exempt from that law substantially accurate reports of the proceedings before courts of law and the legislative assemblies. Upon this much doubt existed, as a recent case, involving a question as to the privileges of that House, had recently exhibited. It was in these times due to the country that fair and substantially
 500
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  would vote against the second reading of this Bill, because, great as were the defects of the present law of libel, it seemed to him to be an attempt to remedy those defects all on one side. Every provision appeared to be designed for the immunity and protection of those who disseminate slander, while not one tittle of protection was afforded to that private character and private reputation which he was sure the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny would feel to be one of the dearest possessions any individual could enjoy. Among many other most objectionable clauses, the Bill provided, that the publisher of a libel was to have his Option of impunity from criminal charge if within a week after notice in writing, he retracted; or he had the option of giving up at his own will and pleasure the author, and then, because the author was surrendered, the publisher was to be held free from guilt. Was the House prepared to say, that trade in libel was no crime? Was it to be said, that the trader in slander, the pander to the worst passions, should escape from guilt by giving up to the parties assailed the author of the calumnies, however impotent he might be as an object for redress? From first to last the provisions of this Bill were framed in favour of the party guilty of slander, who was to have his choice of jury, the advantage of a reply upon the case of the party assailed and seeking redress, and
 501
 Mr. Maclean  concurred in what had fallen, from the hon. and learned Member for Reading, and rose only to call the attention of the hon. and learned Member for, Kilkenny to an omission in his Bill. The Bill abolished by the 14th section, all  ex officio
 Mr. O'Connell , in reply, remarked, that the hon. and learned Member for Oxford had misunderstood the meaning of the 14th clause, which excluded in terms the offences he had mentioned from the provisions of the Bill. Every hon. Member who had opposed the Bill had admitted, that the law of libel required to be altered; bat yet no one had brought forward a measure for the purpose. His object was to have the law, which as it stood at present was atrociously bad, defined; and he would therefore divide the House.
 Lord John Russell  said, that perhaps the House would permit him to move that the report be now brought up, upon the understanding that the further discussion be adjourned until his noble Friend (Lord Morpeth) should bring forward his Bill upon the subject.
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the report; which was read.
 Mr. Sharman  Crawford rose to move the resolutions of which he had given notice, by way of amendment.
 Mr. Sharman  Crawford wished to ask the noble Lord when it was intended to bring up the report of the Committee on tithes in Ireland?
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that as the question was to be got rid of, he should not have risen to address the House, had not some points arisen in the course of the debate, which, if left unanswered, might give occasion to a supposition that the imputations which had been thrown upon the Universities, were deserved. His right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had done his duty as a Minister of the Crown and a member of the University, by declaring his determination to resist the motion, and therefore he was not called on to say how far there was such a power in the Crown. The Government would, in these respects, act upon their own responsibility; but he hoped there would be no violation of rights which, granted under charters from the Crown, sanctioned by the authority of Parliament, and confirmed by the decisions of the courts for several hundred years, stood upon a basis not easily to be shaken. He must observe, that when motions of inquiry had been made before, the Gentlemen who brought them forward, or those who supported them, had felt themselves bound to prove, that abuses did exist; but instead of that, it was acknowledged, that the Universities were in a state of progressive improvement, and fulfilling better than at any former period, the duties which they owed to society at large. His right hon. Friend said, that there was no harm meant, no injury intended, by this inquiry. It was said, that the Universities would come out of it with honour. Why, was he to be tried for an offence, because, when he was put on his trial, he was sure of an honourable acquittal? Was he to have his whole life inquired into, upon an imaginary accusation; and would his right hon. Friend console him by saying, "You will be put upon your trial, but then you will have the glorious satisfaction of coming out of the inquiry with an unspotted character, and of publishing to the world that you are as virtuous as you were supposed to be vicious?" Would that be any compensation to him? Great, however, as would be the annoyance which an individual would suffer from this proceeding, the inconvenience in the case of public bodies would be much aggravated. He should like to know, too, how discipline
 521 522 523 intelligibilia 524 animus imponentis 525 526 527 Pryme Pryme l. Pryme 528 529
 Mr. Pryme  in reply, said, that after the speech of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the question had taken a different aspect from what it had at first. His right hon. Friend agreed with him in the principle that some reformation was necessary, but he thought that it would be better to leave to the Crown the power which it had of interfering if it should seem necessary. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) seemed to think that he (Mr. Pryme) had intended to make an attack on the Universities, but he appealed to the recollection of hon. Members whether he had said anything of the kind. He admitted that great improvement had of late been made in the system of both Universities, but he wished to have that improvement on some fixed principle. What he complained of was, that some colleges had so given their instructions as to render a private tutor necessary, which in many cases was a hardship. Having made this explanation, he would now, with the leave of the House withdraw his motion, in the hope that Ministers would take the necessary steps in these matters on their own responsibility.
 Mr. Pryme  rose to move that an address be presented to his Majesty to issue a Commission to inquire into the state of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and the respective colleges therein. It was essential that full inquiry should be made into these institutions, with a view to the removal of those defects which so greatly impeded their utility. A Committee of this description had been appointed during the administration of the right hart. Member for Tamworth in reference to the Scotch universities, and in consequence of the report of that Committee, Several reforms and alterations had taken place in those universities. The grounds on which he now Sought for an inquiry into the two great English Universities was that, having been instituted in days of less civilisation and less knowledge than the present, they were not so much adapted to the knowledge and studies of the present time as they might and ought to be. A Commission to inquire into these universities was no novelty. Commissions had been issued for this purpose in the reigns of Henry 8th, of Edward 6th, of Mary, and
 510 caput The dinburgh 511 Review l. 512 l.
 Colonel Wood  begged to say, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down, that Acts for the better regulation of the Sabbath were to be found on the statute book at present. It was a subject, too, upon which he would remind the House, a vast number of persons had petitioned, who were of opinion that that House not only could legislate, but were bound to legislate upon it. He had himself presented six petitions praying the House to pass the Bill brought forward by the hon. Baronet.
 Dr. Borvring  observed, that in those places where there was least legislation respecting the Sabbath, was the Sabbath most strictly observed, and instanced Holland and Switzerland as examples. With regard to the number of petitions that had been presented on this subject, perhaps the House would be surprised to find, that according to the last report, forty-one petitions only had been presented, and that the average number of signatures attached to each was only eighty-two.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he tried to put nobody down by clamour, and he treated nobody with contempt; but he was in the other situation alluded to by the hon. Member for Tynemouth; he had been urged by constituents, with some of whom he had a long, and he might call it, an hereditary connexion, to take the side of the hon. Baronet, the mover of the Bill. But he had been constrained to reply to them, that he had been born among the supporters of religious liberty, and among them he meant to die; and that by the same right by which our fathers protested against the doctrines and practice of an ancient Church, so he would protest, and if he stood alone in the House, he did not stand alone out of doors, that the Judaical observance of the Sabbath was not only not directed in the Scripture, to which all parties professed to look to for authority, but was absolutely
 545
 Lord John Russell : The motion of my hon. Friend rests, as I conceive, upon two grounds: the one is with respect to the full amount of first fruits and tenths which ought to be paid by the archbishops, bishops, and the rest of the clergy; and the other is, as to what shall be done in future with respect to the question of first fruits and tenths. I rather expected from some part of my hon. Friend's speech, that with respect to the former part of this question, he was not going to propose a Select Committee, to inquire into that part of the subject; but it seems that he now proposes to inquire, what is the full amount that ought to have been paid, although he does not intend to propose that, after ascertaining that amount, those who have paid the customary amount of first-fruits and tenths shall be obliged to pay the increased amount retrospectively. But he proposes that an inquiry shall be made as to what proceedings shall be taken with
 537 l. l. 538 539
 Mr. Villiers  said, that as the hon. Member for Tynemouth had proposed to test the philosophy of the Ministerial side of the House by their conduct upon this motion, he would judge the sincerity of the opposite
 544
 Mr. Baines  rose to make his promised motion with respect to the First Fruits. The ground on which he rested that motion was, that at present those funds were grossly misapplied, and he hoped to be able to show that a reform, and an important reform too, was called for in their administration. The first fruits were as ancient as tithes. In the year 1290, a valuation was made of livings for the purpose of ascertaining the value of first fruits and tenths, and the consequence was, it was recorded that the first fruits and tenths were of the full value of the livings of that day. At the time of the Reformation—in the reign of Henry 8th—these funds came into the possession of the State, were applied to the uses of the State, and at that time also amounted to the full value of all the livings. At that time, therefore, and at all preceding periods, the amount of the revenue, instead of being extremely small and insignificant, as at the present day, was of a very large and important description. He did not wish to weary the House by entering into unnecessary details; but he held in his hand the directions given by Henry 8th, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of first fruits and tenths; and at that period, as he had already stated, the sum amounted to the full value of all the livings. So that, supposing a bishop to enjoy a living of 1,000/. a-year, it was necessary that he should pay to the First Fruits-office the full amount of that sum for the first year, and for every succeeding year one-tenth of it. In this state the law continued until the time of Philip and Mary, when the act of Henry 8th was repealed; but the very first act of Elizabeth was to re-enact the law, and with so much strictness that the full amount of the livings under the valuation of Henry 8th continued to be collected and paid during the whole of her reign, and down to the time of Queen Anne. In the reign of the last-named sovereign a statute was passed which would be remembered long in this country, and which entitled the name of Anne to great veneration and respect—he meant the statute known generally under the name of Queen Anne's bounty, by virtue of which the first fruits theretofore applied to the uses of the State were transferred to the support of the poorer clergy. How far the obligations
 531
 Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer : I will first ask, are our universities national establishments?—and if they are, can we improve them? What is the gist of the motion? If we can answer both questions in the affirmative, I see no possible reason why we are to exempt the universities from that inquiry which has been granted with respect to other corporations in this country. I believe very great misapprehension exists on this question, and I do not consider that my hon. and learned Friend has removed it in his very able speech. My hon. Friend has not sufficiently pointed out the distinction between the universities and the colleges; and all the reforms that are required depend upon that distinction being kept in view. I will not occupy the House more than a minute and a-half in pointing out that distinction. In the first place,
 513 514 515 516
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, that the hon. Member had totally omitted the fact, that the great bulk of the petitions in favour of this measure, had been presented that evening. There was no subject whatever, with the exception he believed of the abolition of slavery, on which so large a portion of the people of this country had expressed their opinions, as upon this very subject. He repeated, none whatever. It was strange, therefore, that the opposition to this Bill should come from those, who, upon so many other occasions, were the first to impress upon the House the imperative nature of the duty which devolved upon them to pay respect to the petitions of the people.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that from the few observations of the hon. Baronet, he could perceive that the present measure differed in no material point from those of former
 542
 Mr. Hardy  observed, that the hon. Member for Bridport had blamed his hon. Friend for bringing forward the same measure that he had proposed to the House on former occasions. Now, he would have been very much Surprised had his hon. Friend acted otherwise, because on no previous occasion had he attempted to bring in a Bill which he did not think was such a one as that House ought to pass. His principles were now the same as then, and his conduct on the present occasion was in perfect conformity with those principles. Let the House enter upon the consideration of the provisions of the Bill, and if they should be then of Opinion that any of them went too far, or not far enough, it would be for hon. Members to modify them in any Way they might think proper. Every petition that had been presented, contained a prayer that the House would permit the Bill to go into Committee, in order that all its provisions might be duly canvassed. The hon. Member for Bridport need not flatter himself that this Bill would interfere with the poor, for it was they who had come forward and signed those petitions.
 Mr. Hardy  replied, that after many trials, he had succeeded in having all the iron furnaces with which he had any connexion, put out nine hours on every Sunday, in order to allow the men to go to church.
 Mr. Plumptre  seconded the motion. A great many persons in this country were of opinion that some measure of the kind was necessary, and the House ought therefore to inquire whether it would not be right to adopt some legislative measure to provide against the desecration of the Sabbath. Much of the prosperity and happiness of the country depended on the maintenance and dissemination of religious feelings, and, as Christian Legislators, they were called upon to see that the Lord's Day was not desecrated, and that all classes should be allowed aft opportunity of rest, as directed by the Divine command.
 Mr. Poulter  believed, that oaths had been employed solely for the purpose of coercing the illegal and arbitrary acts of the colleges. He did not see that a case had been made out which would warrant the House in addressing the Crown. He would support any Bill for the admission of Dissenters, any Bill which would substitute declarations for oaths; but he did not think a commission necessary. He objected also to the proceeding suggested, as it would be an act of hostility against the Universities, antecedently to proof that they failed in performing their duties. As to the term "indigent persons," it was difficult to point out the individuals designated by that phrase; but he thought that it alluded to persons intended for the ministry, persons who, having acquired the rudiments of knowledge, were without means adequate to enable them to attain perfection. He thought the term "pauperes" signified personally poor; and he thought the class of men he had described were personally poor. An improvement had been going on progressively for many years. He thought that the mode of holding fellowships might be altered to advantage; he thought an alteration with regard to property might be introduced; he thought, also, that the disqualification on account of marriage might safely be changed, as it was in violation of a great natural principle. The proceeding recommended to the House was violent and unfair towards the Universities, which were performing the best national services. When he saw, as he did, the means of education honestly provided for by the two Universities, he could not bring himself to accede to this motion. If they looked to the schools and the exhibitions connected with the Universities, they would find in them the means of raising men of the very humblest rank, totally destitute of friends and property, to the very highest situations. He would relate a circumstance in his own knowledge, which would place this fact in a very striking point of view. About a-year ago he had a man servant, who had considerable taste for classical learning. He himself paid considerable attention to his progress, and procured an exhibition for him at the University, and he had the pleasure of seeing him cease to be his man-servant, and become a com-
 517
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion, and contended that the tax was not only oppressive on the poorer classes of occupiers, but was extremely prejudicial to the public health, preventing, as it did, the dwellings of the poor from being properly ventilated.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that after the statement of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Goulburn), he should not detain the House by more than one remark, which was, that of late years an improvement had taken place in the Universities, particularly in that of Oxford, which had gone far beyond what
 530
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not entirely agree with the hon. and learned Member who had last spoken. It was but just to his hon. Colleague (Mr. Pryme) to cast aside the supposition that this motion was brought forward out of any hostile feeling to the Universities; The main question was, whether inquiry was necessary, and whether this was the proper mode of prosecuting it? This was the practical question, He considered that the Universities were public institutions of national establishments which it was competent to the House to inquire into It Seemed to him that the whole question turned upon this. He should be sorry to think that any number of sane men should maintain that these were not national establishments, and that if even a proper case Were made out it was not fitting or proper for the House to institute an inquiry. Could it for a moment be maintained that that House had the right to legislate on that subject, and yet that they had not the sight of inquiry? That House had legislated on the subject. One of the most important statutes that had ever been passed, the l8th of Elizabeth, c. 6, had reference to this subject. Surely, it never could be maintained that the Legislature had the power to act, and that they had not the power to inquire into the subject matter of their legislation. It could never be maintained, after the issue of the Scotch com-mission, that that House had not the power to inquire if a case of inquiry were made out, and the necessity of the inquiry proved. The effect of a contrary proposition would be to give that House the power of action without the power of deliberation. He thought that there were certain points in the Universities that called for immediate inquiry. He did not make this assertion
 518 519 520
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, as the hon. Member for Marylebone intended to divide the House on this occasion, it became necessary to go more at length into the subject than he otherwise should have done. In the first place, the hon. Member called upon the House to dispose of 1,200,000 l. l. 506 507 l.
 Sir A. Agnew  rose to move for leave to bring in the two Bills of which he had given notice. The first was one for restraining all open desecration of the Lord's Day, and for extending to all classes of his Majesty's subjects the opportunity of resting thereon, according to the commandment. The other was to enable local authorities, under certain restrictions, to remove Saturday and Monday fairs and markets to other days. The subject had been so much canvassed already, that he would not go into any details upon it. He would only ask for a fair hearing on the subject, which had had so many petitions sent to the House in its favour. All he would ask was that the House would allow the Bill to be brought in and go to a Committee.
 Sir A. Agnew  also moved for leave to bring in a Bill for enabling local authorities, under certain restrictions, to remove Saturday and Monday fairs and markets to other days, but after a short conversation withdrew it.
 Captain Pechell  stated, that, although he as well as his constituents placed great confidence in his Majesty's Government, he felt bound on that occasion to support the motion of the hon. Member for Mary-la-bonne. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer had intimated any intention of giving partial relief by modifying this tax, he would have abstained from voting; but under the circumstances of the case, he felt bound to support the motion.
 Mr. Ward  should support the proposition of the hon. Member for Bridport, being firmly convinced that it was utterly impossible for the House, to any good or
 543
 Sir Samuel Whalley  believing that the surplus of public revenue at the disposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer exceeded two millions sterling, deemed it the duty of each hon. Member of that House to bring forward and press upon the attention of the House (however unpleasant it might be) his peculiar views with reference to the best method of disposing of that surplus. He hoped hon. Gentlemen would give him their attention for a short time, as he meant to take the sense of the House on his motion; and he thought it had a very prejudicial effect upon the House, and was a very great dereliction of a Member's duty to bring down hon. Members to support any particular proposition, and afterwards to close the discussion without giving those Members an opportunity of expressing and recording their opinions. He wished to press this question to a division for another reason also, which was, that he believed the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be mainly guided in disposing of any available surplus revenue by the number of Members who might vote in favour of any particular method of disposing of it; and it was with great satisfaction he observed, that, of 137 who supported him, when last he brought forward this question, in the year 1833, only seventeen had been unseated at the general election; a circumstance which went to bear out his statement of the interest felt on this question by the public generally. Moreover, that supplied a proof, as a reference to the list of names of the 137 would show, that large constituencies were not the fickle bodies they were sometimes described to be; and that, if an honest and consistent man once obtained the confidence of a large constituency, he might retain it all his life. It was only when he deserted his duties and
 504 505
 Mr. Trevor  said, he should certainly feel it his duty to vote that the hon. Baronet's Bill be laid upon the table; at the same time he was bound to declare, that should that Bill, like former Bills on the Same subject, enact one law for the rich, and another for the poor, should it prevent the poor man, who was confined during the whole week, from the enjoyment of a little rational amusement on the Sabbath-day, while it did not preclude the wealthier man from that enjoyment, and in driving his carriage wherever he pleased, he should feel himself compelled in the further stages of the Bill, to give his decided opposition to the adoption of such a principle.
 Sir G. Clerk  regretted the speech which the noble Lord had just made. The noble Lord charged his right hon. Friend with bringing forward this motion for the purpose of obstructing public business. Now, what was the fact? His right hon. Friend had given notice two months ago of his determination to bring this question forward, if the Government did not anticipate him. When he gave that notice he had not been able to find an opportunity of bringing it forward. Two Gentlemen, supporters of the noble Lord, had given notice that on a certain evening they would bring forward their motion touching the Septennial Act. The noble Lord requested them to postpone it to another day; he offered them another day; and what day? Friday, the 5th of May. His right hon. Friend, however, then interposed, and adverting to the notice he had given, expressed his determination not to give way. What day was then selected? next Monday, which was also a supply day; but on which he did not think the noble Lord would repeat the objection he had that night made to his right hon. Friend. There never was a question agitated in Scotland which was so little of a party one as this which the noble Lord appeared to think it was. [Lord J. Russell: I alluded to the time.] He should come to the question of time shortly; but so far from its being a party question, there was a great desire that many of the Whig party should come forward and second these resolutions, and to them a preference had been given. As to time; had not sufficient time elapsed since the issuing of the Commission in 1885? The Commission had been sitting two years; it had cost 17,000 l. l. 620 l. l. l. 621 s. s. s. s. 622 623 l. l. l. l. l. l. 624
 Mr. Hope Johnstone,  who was most imperfectly heard throughout his address, was understood to say, that, as a Member of the Commission, he thought that every exertion had been made to prepare the Report as early as possible. There was a great variety of objects of inquiry; they had to circulate questions through all the parishes in Scotland, which were upwards of 1,000, and wait for the answers; and he must say, that no men could have devoted themselves more assiduously to the objects of the Commission than those gentlemen did. Some of the parishes were in Orkney, and Shetland, and the Hebrides, and
 625 ex-parte 626
 Mr. Cutlar  Fergusson rose only in consequence of the opinions which the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Buteshire, had referred to as having been delivered by him on a former occasion. He would not now depart from those opinions, and he would not give the vote he intended to give that night, if he thought it had any tendency to check the extension of the principles, or in any way against the interests, of the Established Church of Scotland; more particularly as he considered that establishment entitled to ask for relief at the hands of the Legislature. On the present occasion, however, he could not concur in the resolutions of the right hon. Baronet, as he had already agreed to an inquiry which was not yet terminated, and he could not consent to act on a partial investigation. It was particularly to be considered that there was one part of the inquiry that had not yet been touched upon—he referred to those funds which the Church of Scotland itself possessed. It was to be observed, that the money was not to be drawn from churchmen of Scotland, but from the Dissenters of England, of Ireland, and of Scotland; and he thought the grant could not properly be made until the Church of Scotland had shown that it had exhausted its own means —it must show a case of absolute necessity, and this it had not yet shown. Another view in which he regarded the matter was this, that the case should apply to the whole of Scotland, for how did they know that in relieving Edinburgh they should have enough to supply the proportionate wants of the other parts of Scotland; the Highlands for instance, they had a right to know the amount of funds that could be applied to
 649
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had brought forward this motion to obstruct and delay the supplies to be granted to his Majesty, and this was the second time that the same course had been taken within the last few nights by hon. Gentlemen opposite. They would not wait to make their motions on the regular days devoted to that purpose, but
 615 616 l. 617 l. 618 619
 Lord John Russell  begged to offer a few words in explanation, as he was afraid he had been supposed to bring any charge against the Commissioners. He certainly had not meant to bring any charge against the Commissioners, and had only said, that they had suggested no definite remedy for the evils which they had stated to exist. Not having suggested a remedy, it was the more necessary for the Government to use the utmost care in the formation of a plan, and he was afraid he could not at present go further than to say, that it was a case demanding the utmost consideration. He did not deny the existence of the evil, but in respect to the remedy to be applied, a great difference of opinion might exist. It was not clear from the Report, whether the evil arose from want of church accommodation, or from want of instruction; and the Government wished to take all these circumstances into their consideration before they brought forward their measure.
 Lord John Russell  trusted, that the House would, not sanction such a course. If the hon. Gentleman, desired it, he had no doubt that his noble Friend would consent to postpone the second reading of the Bill till the 9th of June.
 Mr. Andrew Johnston  felt both surprised and grieved at the speech of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, for it was anything but calculated to give pleasure to the Scottish Members. Entirely unconnected as he was with the right hon. Baronet who brought forward these resolutions, he could freely and fairly say, that in his opinion the Church of Scotland was deeply indebted to him. And when it was considered that that right hon. Member had for ten years been the first law officer of the Crown in Scotland, he was also of opinion, that to no hands could the case of the Church of that country be more safely or more properly intrusted. He did not think the Church of Scotland fairly treated on this occasion. When the Committee of the General Assembly made certain proposals to the noble Lord—that they would build a large number of churches if he would endow them—he thought it argued no great zeal in the cause of religion, for the Government to decline the offer. The noble Lord on a former occasion had said, that it would be the duty of the Commissioners to report on the paramount cases of necessity first; the noble Lord was now satisfied. They had reported the case of Edinburgh, and showed that in that city there were 20,000 persons destitute of the means of religious instruction. What more did he want? But it was aid the case was incomplete. All the right hon. Baronet's resolutions asked was, that it should be taken into consideration.
 651
 Major Cumming Bruce  begged to congratulate the House and the hon. Member who had just addressed them on his restoration to health. Indeed, he was happy to see the hon. Member in the perfect enjoyment of that health, the loss of which they had so much reason to deplore when it compelled him to be absent from his duties on an Election Committee. He rejoiced to find, both from the length and eloquence of the address which the House had just heard, that the health of the hon. Member was not so seriously affected as his friends had apprehended. The hon. Member for Cockermouth had commenced his speech by an attack on his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburghshire, and lectured him on the unpopularity of prepared speeches. The hon. Member seemed to think, that to consider the subject in respect to which a notice had been given, was a course which ought not to be pursued. However, he would not attempt to say that the hon. Member himself was entirely free from the imputation which he had endeavoured to cast upon his hon. Friend. He was sure, that no one who heard him would gainsay that the hon. Member, after the address which he had delivered, was not liable to such an imputation. He would not waste the time of the House by attempting to follow the hon. Member throughout his speech, for he had touched on every subject but the subject at issue. But he could not allow to pass, unnoticed, the imputations that he had cast upon an individual of whom the country had every reason to be proud—the illustrious Dr. Chalmers. He could not allow any imputation affecting that illustrious and distinguished individual to pass unnoticed; and he felt bound to say, that the statements which the hon. Member had made, must have been from a total misunderstanding and misrepresentation made to him. There was a gentleman at present in London who was present at the meeting in respect to which it had been stated, that Dr. Chalmers had objected to Lord Moncrief. So far from Dr. Chalmers having had any connexion with this transaction, he was all the time ill in bed. Now, he would say, let the House judge
 644 ex uno disce omnes. l. 645 646 Hos ego!—sed motos prœstat componere fluctus. in forma pauperis. 647 648
 Mr. C. Hindley  moved, that the House do adjourn.
 Mi. Horsman  said, as my name is appended to that Report I feel it my duty, although with some personal inconvenience, to be present on this occasion; but I had still hoped that I need not have been called on to address the House, least of all did I hope to be called in consequence of any more of those attacks which the hon. Member for Edinburghshire has so long been in the habit of making on the Commissioners. I had hoped he would have followed the same course he did last time the subject was before the House, for he then admitted that the Commissioners were ably and impartially discharging their duties, although on their appointment he had accused them of gross incapacity and great political bias. But he has thought proper now to fall foul of their report, and say that it is mystified, confused, and unwillingly wrung from the Commissioners. Now, having listened attentively to all that fell from him, I must say, that all the mystification and confusion we have had an example of this evening was in his own speech. I wish I could add, that it also was unwillingly wrung from him; but that certainly has not been the case; that speech was Intended to produce much effect, and had certainly cost much preparation, for with all my willingness to give full credit to his ability in that line, I do not think he could have given vent to such a long train of ignorance and
 638 639 640 l. l. 641 l. 642 643
 Mr. Aglionby  proposed a clause to the effect, that marks made in newspapers for the sole purpose of directing attention to any particular paragraph, shall not subject the paper to the duties of postage, nor the sender or deliverer to any penalty.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Member for Middlesex owed the House an explanation of the words he had used.
 Mr. Dunlop  said, that Scotland owed a large debt of gratitude to his Majesty's Ministers for their conduct on the question at issue. The Dissenters of that country felt the greatest reluctance to give any grant to the Church of Scotland, and the result of the resolution of the right hon. Baronet would be the production of bad feeling between the Dissenters and the members of the Church of Scotland. If, however, the whole case of the Church were fully stated, and the destitution complained of satisfactorily proved, he did not believe that the Dissenters would offer any opposition to whatever amount of grant might be deemed necessary to relieve it. But while the whole claim put forward was for the capital of the country alone, he thought his Majesty's Ministers would be very ill-advised indeed to admit it. He could understand why hon. Members opposite wished to cause a rupture between the Dissenters and the Church of Scotland; it was to further their own political purposes. The only question at issue, in point of fact, was, whether the people of Scotland should be called on to contribute to the necessities of the Church before all its wants were made apparent. He should oppose the resolutions.
 Mr. Hume  was not aware that he had said any thing contrary to the rules of the House. When he saw hon. Members in that House, or in any other assembly, claiming for themselves alone any regard to religion, and pronouncing his Majesty's Ministers to be insensible to it, and denouncing him and them, and all who agreed with them, he must say, that such persons arrogated to themselves a purity of character they did not deserve. He must judge of them by their acts, as well as by their words, and when he looked at the sway they had formerly exercised in that House, he conceived them to be the last persons who should complain of the destitution of the Scotch Church, when they might so easily have given it whatever assistance that House could afford. The present motion was, in fact, only a party effort to annoy his Majesty's Ministers, and to stop the progress of reform. He was surprised at the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, who always objected to proceed in any matter until full inquiry had been made concerning it. He agreed with the right hon. Member for
 650
 Mr. Hume  had listened with great plea-to the speech which the hon. Member for Cockermouth had delivered, to the great satisfaction of the House. Whether the hon. Member for Inverness was to be classed with the drones or the hypocrites he could not say. ["Order," "Chair."]
 Mr. Hume  thought the Committee ought to adjourn the consideration of this motion until the 9th of June. When the other House stopped the progress of reform, when they unnecessarily impeded legislation with that view, he submitted to that House whether it was right in them to part with a single shilling of the public money? When it was considered that it was past midnight, and especially after what had occurred elsewhere, he thought he should only be acting consistently —for there was nothing like the two Houses of Parliament agreeing —if he moved, as an amendment, that the debate on the grant be adjourned to the 9th of June.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the vote did not go to incur any new charge, but merely to enable Government to effect the ordinary exchange of Exchequer bills; and if the hon. Member's proposition was agreed to, such an exchange could not take place; and the effect would be very greatly to embarrass the public business.
 Mr. Walter Campbell  expressed his grief that the question should be made a party one at all, or treated in any way as a political question. No man felt more warmly for the interests of the Church of Scotland than he did; but he could not, notwithstanding, support the resolutions of the right hon. Baronet. It was true enough, that there was a population of 55,000 destitute souls in Edinburgh, without the means of religious instruction; but the same destitution existed elsewhere as well as in Edinburgh. In his (Mr. Campbell's) county there were two parishes, measuring sixty miles long by
 652
 Mr. Gillon  thought that the right hon. Gentleman from whom the resolutions had emanated might have postponed the question, and spared the House its discussion at the present time at least. They were called upon to decide with respect to matters upon which a report had not yet been made. If doubt existed upon the mind of any individual as to the propriety of the step adopted by his Majesty's Government two years ago, when they appointed a Commission upon this subject—if any one had upon this point entertained a doubt before, that doubt must now be certainly removed. He begged to say, in opposition to the statements that had been made upon the other side of the House, that, looking to the Report made by the Commissioners, it would be found that the complaints the hon. Gentlemen opposite had made had broken down, and, so far as they went to apply to church-accommodation,
 627 628 s. s. 629 s. s. s. s. s. 630 631 l. 632
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  intimated his intention to move that the consideration of the report be postponed till the 10th of June.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  would oppose proceeding with the report that evening.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  meant to divide the House in opposition to the motion of the noble Lord.
 Sir Robert Peel  would be sorry to allow this subject to come to a conclusion without some Member unconnected with Scotland taking part in the discussion. He should be particularly sorry if it should be inferred from such a circumstance that there was not as warm an interest felt for the welfare of Scotland, and for the spiritual concerns of its people, as for any part of the United Kingdom, among the Members of that House who were not connected by birth with that country. In the few observations which he meant to make on this subject he would confine himself to considerations of a public nature, and would not attempt to follow the example of the noble Lord opposite. Supposing that in former administrations large sums of money had been voted for the purpose of carrying on a war which the noble Lord might think unnecessary, but which the people of this country thought essential for the maintenance of the honour of the country, and for the protection of their vital interests—supposing the fact to be true, he would not say that they were therefore discharged from the necessity of attending to the spiritual wants of the country. The noble Lord told the House that 140,000,000 l. 633 634 l. 635 636 637
 Sir William Rae  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice in the shape of certain resolutions, relating to the endowment of churches in Scotland. He did not feel, that he was called upon to apologise in any great degree for thus interfering with the business of the Government by moving his resolutions on the first Order of the Day, because this was the first occasion during a long Parliamentary life that he had done so. But the circumstances of the case on the present occasion bore him out, and fully justified the course he had adopted. It was now two months since he first gave notice of his Motion, and no opportunity had been afforded him of bringing it forward sooner, or in any other shape. In the year 1835 he brought forward a Motion on the same subject and for a Committee to inquire into the whole
 603 604 l. 605 l. l. l. 606 l. s. d. l. 607 l. 608 609 610 s. d. 611 l. l. l. l. l. 612 613 "1. That an address having been presented to the King by the House of Commons, humbly praying "That his Majesty would be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission to inquire into the opportunities of religious worship, and
 614 "2. That the Commissioners so appointed made a first report on the matters referred to them as applicable to those parishes in the presbytery of Edinburgh, where the want of the means of religious instruction was alleged to exist, which report was laid before the House of Commons on the seventh of February, 1837. "3. That it appears from this Report that the population in the city of Edinburgh and its suburbs amounts to 162,292, of whom, after deducting persons belonging to religious denominations other than the Established Church, there remain 91,021; and that the total number of sittings in the churches belonging to that establishment amounts to 36,001. It further appears from the Report that the number of persons capable of attending religious worship, who habitually absent themselves from such worship, 'cannot be less than from 40,000 to 50,000.' "4. That the said report sets forth 'as the result of the whole evidence, that from what ever cause it proceeds, whether connected with their extent or nature, the opportunities of public religious worship, and the means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence at present existing and in operation, are not adequate to the removal of the evils complained of.' "5. That it is the opinion of this House that the said Report should be taken into immediate consideration, with the view of remedying the evils acknowledged to exist within the districts to which it refers, by extending the means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence furnished by the Established Church of Scotland, and rendering them available to all classes of the community."
 Mr. George F. Young  protested against passing tolls, and he was glad that that House and the Government had taken a similar view of the matter. The duty to be imposed by the present Bill was of a twofold character. There was to be a duty levied on tonnage, and another on coals, and to both of them there were many ob-
 677
 Sir G. Strickland : The present was not a Bill for objects of speculation, nor for any new undertaking, but merely for the purpose of completing a harbour on which a large sum had already been expended, and which, if not completed, was in danger of being washed away.
 Mr. Pease  opposed the second reading, as the shipping interest were all hostile to the undertaking. Considering the injustice of the toll proposed to be levied, he was astonished that the hon. Member for Tyne mouth should have consented to sacrifice the interests of the poorest class of persons concerned in shipping. It had been said that it was to be a harbour of refuge, but its situation rendered such an object impossible; for, not long ago, thirty vessels went to take the harbour and all grounded for want of water before they could reach the port The duty, too, would be heaviest on those vessels which from their size could derive no advantage whatever from the undertaking. He objected to the precedent which would be established, and would move as an amendment, that the Bill be read that day six months.
 Alderman Thompson  trusted the House would treat the Bill as it had done the one for the Scarborough harbour, and throw it out.
 Mr. A. Chapman  thought the Bill should pass, as it was for the interests of the public and of humanity that a harbour of refuge should be established on such a dangerous line of coast.
 Mr. B. Thompson  supported the motion. A person well acquainted with the coast had been asked where, if only one harbour of refuge were to be established, he considered the most eligible site was? His answer was Bridlington, and the number of vessels daily passing along the coast and the vast annual sacrifice of life and property showed the necessity for the construction of a harbour to which vessels might run when overtaken by storms.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to view this Bill solely in connexion with the public good. It had
 678 679
 Sir Charles Adam  approved of the views of the right hon. Baronet. He should like to see such a report as that suggested by the right hon. Gentleman laid before the House. A survey had been for some time going on in the North of England, which he hoped might partly answer the end proposed. The hon. Member for South Durham (Mr. Pease) considered that a harbour formed at Redcar would better answer the purpose contemplated by the present Bill; and he (Sir C. Adam) certainly thought that if a toll were to be imposed on the shipping of the country, it ought to be to further a great undertaking like that, not a small harbour like Bridlington.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that Bridlington was the only point on that part of the coast which had a good roadstead, though Red-car was undoubtedly a situation superior to all others for a harbour of refuge for vessels of all classes. He thought it most material that the House should give all the assistance in their power to the improvement of Bridlington.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the suggestions made by the right hon. Member for Tam-worth would be attended to by Government, and that an inquiry would be immediately instituted, with the view of ascertaining the situations best adapted for harbours of refuge. He should vote against the second reading of this Bill.
 Mr. O' Connell  said, that before the Speaker left the chair he wished to suggest an opinion on the subject of this Bill. He must say-that the state of destitution that existed in Ireland was exceedingly underrated in this Bill. He never knew an instance of such a complete falsification of evidence as that which arose in Mr. Nicholls's report. He had trespassed upon the House upon a former occasion, and would not detain them two minutes. He had declared, that in the present state of destitution in Ireland any thing like adequate relief would amount to a confiscation of property, whilst the present provision was not only not desirable, but would lead to increasing irritation. Having to select between them, he had made up his mind for confiscation, and not for increasing irritation, and therefore he must state, that he would not oppose this Bill. But he would divide the House upon that part of the Bill which confined relief to workhouses; and he would take the sense of the House upon a clause to enable the guardians to give out-door relief. He felt it his duty to express his opinion that the relief must be more extensive, or they had better have no relief at all.
 Mr. Shell  said, that it seemed now to be settled that a Poor-law should be introduced. He saw there was to be another rate imposed upon the people of Ireland before the tithe question was settled. They had now for three years resisted the payment of tithes. On the first of November there would be four years to pay. Was it intended by the Legislature to impose a new tax upon the people of Ireland before the adjustment of the tithe question? He felt public opinion was pronounced, and irrevocably pronounced, upon the subject of an Irish Poor-law. But while he felt quite convinced that a Poor-rate must be imposed, he was most anxious that the tithe question should be settled before the rate was imposed upon Ireland. It must be manifest to every body who knew any thing of the constitution of this country, that where the mass of the people, already by the most effective and, in his opinion, justifiable or-
 691
 Viscount Palmersion  said, that the Government had agreed with that of France to nominate two Commissioners, one to be appointed by each Government, to draw more satisfactorily the boundaries of their
 680
 Mr. Tennyson D' Eyncourt  rose to bring forward his motion for a repeal of the Septennial Act. He would have brought the question forward at an earlier period, but he was unwilling to embarrass his Majesty's Ministers and was in hopes that they would have brought the matter before the House. It was with great pain he learned that he should not have their support, more especially as he believed them to be actuated by a sincere desire to promote the best interests of the country. Having now, however, arrived at the third Session of the second reformed Parliament, without anything having been done on this important subject, it became a matter of indispensable necessity and public duty that he, in the absence of a more competent person, should submit to the House a proposition for the substitution of triennial for septennial Parliaments. Having on former occasions stated the whole bearings of the question at considerable length, and having entered into all the historical details connected with it, he would not detain the House by a repetition of what he had on those occasions stated. In former times, previous to the reign of Henry 8th, the people, it was well known, enjoyed annual or sessional Parliaments, and it was in his reign that the first usurpation of the rights of the people in that respect had taken place. That usurpation, the object of which was to render the Legislature less responsible to the people, had been productive of serious evil and injury. It was not his intention, however, to propose the return to annual Parliaments; he did not, in this respect, go so far as the hon. Baronet the candidate for Westminster went in 1817. He considered, that triennial Parliaments would perfectly satisfy the wishes of the people in this respect. In the Bill of Rights the shorter duration of Parliaments was a point insisted on. In the 6th of William 3rd the Triennial Act was passed, on the ground, as the preamble of the Act with great force and unanswerable truth expressed it, that "frequent and new Parliaments tend very much to the union and good agreement of the king and the people." This Triennial Act existed only twenty-two years, and he had never heard any charge made from any quarter as to the conduct of any one of the Parliaments assembled under it. He believed that a course of
 681 682
 Mr. Williams  seconded the motion. He contended that the Septennial Act was carried much in opposition to the national will, and every succeeding generation had considered it as a violation of the constitution of the country. It was an infraction of the Declaration of Rights. It could not be denied, that the Reform Bill had failed to give satisfaction to the country; the Parliaments elected under it had not been sufficiently in conformity with public opinion to give those reforms which the people expected. The dissolution of the last Parliament did not take place because it was not in unison with public opinion; that dissolution was the result of court intrigue, and had for its object the restoration of a party whom public opinion had expelled from power—a party who were identified with all the old practices of corruption. The hon. Gentleman went into several historical details, through which it was impossible to follow him, and concluded with an earnest appeal to the House to support the motion.
 Mr. Fitzstephen  French opposed the motion. He thought that a return to triennial Parliaments would lead to an increase of political animosities.
 Sir S. Wkalley  was in favour of the shortening of the duration of Parliaments,
 683
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to submit an amendment. There ought to be a separate set of Poor-law Commissioners for Ireland, who were acquainted with all the details of the existing system. What, information could the English Commissioners be supposed to possess? What did Mr. Nicholls know of the condition and wants of the Irish? He had been a sailing captain of an East Indiaman. Was that an education peculiarly fitting him for a Poor-law Commissioner? They could not have an opportunity of practice in both countries; the circumstances were not the same. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved as an amendment that three Poor-law Commissioners be appointed to carry this Act into execution in Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not impugn the con-
 706 toto cœlo
 Mr. Richards  said, that mendicancy could not be put down by the law, unless they made some provision for the really destitute. He thought there should be a board sitting in Dublin; and if the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny went to a division, he would vote with him.
 Lord John Russell  thought the discussion had been carried further than the principle embodied in the clause called for; and as the system of Poor-laws in England differed so materially from that proposed for Ireland, it would have been better to have postponed a great deal of what had been said, till they came to the clause relative to workhouses. In allusion to what had been said by the hon. Member for Middlesex, relative to the Commissioners, he would state, that it was necessary to have for Commissioners, men of great experience; and that it would cause very great inconvenience to appoint three gentlemen totally unacquainted with Poor-laws, as they would be totally inadequate for the object in view. He thought it would be necessary, for some years, to have a board sitting in Dublin, composed of gentlemen possessed of local knowledge; but, at the same time, it was absolutely necessary to have a general board to carry out the system on general grounds, not applicable only to Ireland, but such as might be adopted in other countries to which a Poor-law might be necessary. He did not see anything so peculiar in the state of Ireland to prevent the application of those general principles to that country. With regard to the imputations made against Mr. Nicholls, he wished the House to understand, that that gentleman had been sent over to Ireland at the express request of the Government, and that he was not responsible for having set aside the report of the Commissioners. In fact, he was more responsible for that than Mr. Nicholls.
 Lord John Russell : I do not think it necessary to enter upon the general argu-
 692 693 primá facie 694 695 696 697
 Lord John Russell  had thought he had made himself understood, but he begged at once to state that he intended, with as little delay as possible, to proceed with the measures before the House.
 Lord John Russell  considered, that they ought not to accede to the proposition of the hon. Member for Marylabone, and defer the division on the present motion until hon. Members had taken refreshments. He had upon a former occasion given his opinion so much at length upon this subject, that he did not feel it to be at all necessary to enter into details upon the question. Still, as he had been called upon by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he wished to state what was his opinions upon this question. The hon. Member who had seconded the motion, quoted a sentence used by him, he believed, on introducing the Reform Act. He thought that the hon. Member should not only have quoted that sentence, but another that immediately followed it. An hon. Member had quoted him correctly, as giving a speculative opinion in favour of the duration of Parliament for five years, in the place of seven years. That opinion he certainly entertained, but at the same time he was not to be tempted to support his hon. Friend's motion, and to join with those who might wish for Parliaments of three or four years, or for any other period. The way for the House of Commons to deal with such a question as this, was not by leaving the number of years that Parliament ought to sit in blank. Opinions were greatly divided against this question. Some were for three years, and others for having annual Parliaments. In circumstances like these, he did not think that the evil that was complained of was one that was immediately felt, nor was a Bill, from the circumstances existing, required for shortening the duration of Parliaments. With respect to the period of three years, the hon. Member for Middlesex appeared to be in favour of such a proposition, while he declared that one year would be too short. With great truth and justice the hon. Member had remarked, that the amount of public business would make it very inconvenient to have elections every year. Then that hon. Member said, that there was a clear distinction between the business of a Legislative body, and the affairs of a private individual. Although the hon. Member said this, still he put the matter on the analogy of their not suffering persons to act as representatives for seven years, because no man would allow another to manage his affairs for the same period without calling him to account. The hon.
 685 686
 Lord J. Russell  moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on this Bill.
 Mr. Shaw  was as anxious as the hon. Member for Tipperary for a settlement of the tithe question, but he did not agree with him as to the mode in which this should be effected. The hon. Member said, that it would be four years next November since tithes had been collected in Ireland. This, however, was a fallacy; for tithes had been tolerably well paid in Ireland, at least in three-fourths of the country, during the last year; and any difficulty in their collection was only experienced in one-fourth. He would venture to assert, that tithes were as well paid as any other duty or tax. With respect to this Bill, he thought that a great fault of it was, that it went much farther than the noble Lord had made provision for. He also thought that the noble Lord had greatly miscalculated the number of applicants for admission into the workhouses; they would certainly be much greater than he imagined. It would have been much better, in the first instance, if they had confined relief in the workhouses for the weak, the sick, and the infirm. He could not help feeling, however, that the whole measure was a fearful experiment on the property of Ireland, as well as the habits of the people.
 Mr. Vernon  thought that it was exceedingly indecent in hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House to have, in their address to his Majesty, passed a vote of censure upon the hon. Baronet below him, for having dissolved a Parliament which sat for two years, when they at the same time came forward to make a demand for triennial Parliaments.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  protested against the House of Lords being permitted thus to hang up Ireland by the neck till the 9th of June. If the Lords were quietly allowed to shelve this essential measure till the 9th of June, they would in the same way postpone the Poor-law Bill till the 9th of July, and the Tithe Bill till the 9th of August.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) opposed this change because he thought it would interfere with the stability of Government. Now he (Mr. Roebuck) did not wish for any change that would affect the stability of Government and, therefore, he desired a Bill of this description. He desired that Parliament should exist for three years, neither more nor less, that it should be dissolved on, say, for instance, the last day of December, and that they should not be dissolved either by the King or by the Ministers beyond a given time. If the House of Commons were thus elected every three years, and continued for that period, they would not be subject to instability that arose either from the demise of the Crown or the going
 688
 Mr. Hume  was satisfied that the conclusion of the noble Lord's speech was directly at variance with the facts which he had stated in the course of it. He had no doubt, however, but that Ministers would do their duty, and stand by the House now they saw the clear course before them. That House, at the early part of the Session, passed a Bill, which had for its object the establishment of local Government in the towns of Ireland. The cause of Ireland seemed, however, to be unworthy of the attention of the other House, at least till the 9th of June. He wished the noble Lord to state whether he intended to carry the Church-rates Bill, and the other measures before the House, as fast as possible, and send them up to the House of Lords, or whether he intended to postpone them until after the 9th of June? It appeared to him to be trifling with the feelings of the country not to stale distinctly what course the Government intended to take, to prevent the stoppage of the public business. The two Houses must be placed on a footing of harmony to carry on the legislation for the country. He knew that the noble Lord was afraid of the subject of the reform of the Lords. The noble Lord said, that he was anxious to adhere to the constitution which had hitherto worked so well: had that been the case for the last two years, during which period all the measures sent up by that House have been mutilated or broken in pieces? He wished to have a distinct answer from the noble Lord as to the course he intended to pursue, as to whether he meant to press the measures before
 698
 Mr. Hume  was one of those who was always willing to vote for responsibility on the part of Members of Parliament. The responsibility which they owed to their constituents could not be so well accomplished by the seven years duration of Parliament as by the three years. If they were acting rightly, why not appeal, from time to time, to their constituents? It would be found by hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side, if they asked the opinions of their constituents on the subject, that seven years were considered too long for the duration of Parliament. The question was, had they enough of responsibility with a seven years' tenancy of a seat? In his opinion they had not. Considering the manner in which business was done in that House, he thought that Members ought to be long enough in the House to know their duties. Considering this, it was his opinion that annual Parliaments would tend to an evil, and that they would not be able to go on with them. He should like to know from hon. Members if they would trust to individuals the management of their private affairs for seven years without calling them to account. If they would not, why should they do so with regard to matters of public concern? With reference to what had been said by the hon. Member opposite as to the dissolution of Parliament by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), he begged to say that the right hon. Baronet was censured for that dissolution, because it took place without due notice being given to the constituents. He was opposed to a ministry having the power to dissolve Parliament when they pleased. Upon this
 684
 Mr. Hume  was sorry to see his hon. Friends take the course they were taking with respect to the Commission. The question was whether they would accept the services of men who had had two or three years' experience in the working of the Poor-law system. Were their services to be accepted to perform what was acknowledged to be a difficult duty, or would they reject them and support those who had all this to gain? He did not think that his hon. and learned Friend had dealt with this matter with his usual consideration. He objected to Mr. Nicholls, because he was brought up at sea. Was that a way to judge of a man's abilities? "Why I," said Mr. Hume, "was brought up at sea." Experience assured him that the English system of Poor-laws had been well worked by the Commissioners. It was but justice to the Commissioners to state, that in the Committee which sat up stairs, not the least evidence was taken reflecting prejudicially either on the law or on the way in which the Commissioners had carried it into execution.
 Mr. Sheil  did not conceive that he had asked any question of the Government;
 705
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not help thinking there were some fallacies, and those of no ordinary importance, in the statement of the right hon. Baronet. Whenever the right hon. Gentleman or the other hon. Gentleman who differed with Ministers on the essential principles on which the Government of the country, and more especially the Government of Ireland, was to be carried on, whenever the right hon. and hon. Gentlemen appeared disposed to apply to authorities of the kind just invoked by the right hon.
 702 703 704
 Mr. Wakley  said, that from the speech of the noble Lord, it was quite clear that the duration of Parliaments would continue the same, as long as the people allowed them to remain so. It was quite clear, that in order to have the desired change, they must have the pressure from without. The Septennial Act was passed for a particular object, which was not required now, but there would always be abundance of excuses found for its continuance. The noble Lord
 687
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, if there was to be a compromise with the House of Lords on this question, let it be frankly stated.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  concurred entirely with he amendment.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  was satisfied that the principle of relief in workhouses never could be acted upon in Ireland. He differed from the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary as to the settlement of the tithe-question before the Poor-law Bill; he thought that the latter should be delayed on no account.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought it was of great importance, that there should be a local board subordinate to the general board. The people of Ireland were in the habit of consulting the authorities in that country,
 707
 Sir Robert Peel : I am extremely sorry that a discussion, so mixed up with party feeling and party interest, should have taken place on the question of a Poor-law. I greatly wish the hon. Gentleman, however legitimate his question may be, had taken some other occasion for putting it, for I feel that, if we once permit party feeling to mingle in the discussion of a Poor-law for Ireland, it will greatly prejudice that discussion, and materially tend to discourage the hope of a satisfactory-completion of a measure which, as it is, is looked upon with very considerable doubt and anxiety. As the noble Lord has made distinct reference to me, I find it necessary, not adopting a different temper from that in which the noble Lord spoke, to say something on this subject. I understand from the noble Lord, that it is his intention to proceed with those measures which were indicated in his Majesty's speech from the throne, as affecting the internal peace and tranquility of Ireland, with the consideration, namely, of the Poor-law Bill, and the question of Irish tithes. I rejoice to hear that such is the noble Lord's determination, and I regard it as a much more prudent decision than the one I understood him to indicate on Friday last, of a contrary description. The noble Lord complains of the course taken by the House of Lords on the subject of the Irish Municipal Corporation Bill. I am bound to say, that I think that the course of the House of Lords is perfectly consistent with justice and good sense. I can say this with perfect truth, because the noble Lord will do me the justice to remember, that when this matter was first brought under the consideration of this House, I expressed an anxious wish that, before we came to a final decision on the
 699 700 701
  Sir R. Peel  asked whether or no the Government had made any arrangement with that of France with respect to the valuable fisheries in the neighbourhood of the islands of Jersey and Guernsey? He was firmly impressed with the advantages that the present good understanding between the two countries offered for a settlement of any disputes concerning those fisheries, and he should be glad if the present opportunity were not lost of effecting an amicable arrangement of a point that had been a fruitful source of ill-feeling.
 Mr. A. Trevor  was really very sorry to see so bad an understanding on this occasion between Ministers and Gentlemen with whom, in general, they were so friendly, and without whose assistance they could not keep in office for a week. For his part, he did not understand the clamour raised against the House of Lords for their very reasonable request to know the nature of one measure before they decided upon another, these measures having so intimate a connexion.
 Lord Clive , as Chairman of the Longford Election Committee, begged to say a word or two on this subject. It appeared to him, that many of the remarks which had fallen from hon. Members in reference to this Committee, could only have been made in entire ignorance of the subject. There could be no doubt that it was the duty of the Chairman of an election Committee to give his casting vote in cases where the numbers were equal, and this was a duty which he was bound to exercise as strictly as any other part of his duties. This point
 751
 Lord Stanley  felt considerable difficulty as to the course he should take on the present occasion. There were two questions before the House which were extremely different, and his opinion was, that he was in duty bound to vote against both. He should vote against the motion of the hon. Gentleman behind him, because he conceived the House was fettered by the vote of the Committee; and if he had any doubt on the subject, it would be removed by the stringent terms of the resolution of 1835, which limited the power of the Speaker conferred by the
 754 755
 Lord John Russell  begged to call the attention of the House to the state of the' public business before them. It was certainly usual, when Bills were in Committee, that they should be proceeded with till the Committee was finished, and that while the attention of the House was occupied with the subject of the various clauses and provisions of the Bill, they should not interrupt the Committee. He had stated this to the hon. Member for Greenock before he made his speech, and that he proposed to proceed with the Poor-law Bill this evening. The hon. Member had chosen, however, to bring forward his motion, and had complained of the little progress made last year with the Post-office Bills, and also that they had not been introduced in the present Session. Now, he (Lord John Russell) would suggest to the hon. Member for Greenock, that such Bills as he thought necessary for the reform of that or any other department, were much more likely to be passed, if the attention of the House were not occupied with fifteen or twenty different motions on
 759
 Mr. Alderman Copeland  concurred with the noble Lord, that when a Bill was before the House it was desirable to proceed with it. At the same time he could not allow this opportunity to pass without expressing his thanks to the hon. Member for Greenock for bringing this matter forward, and for the great attention which he paid to this subject. He hoped that the Government would make some inquiry into the different rates of postage.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  saw no reason why they should not proceed with the subject before the House. He was as anxious as any man to make provision for the poor in Ireland, but he saw no plea for deviation from the usual course of the business of the House. The Irish Municipal Bill had been hung up in the House of Lords till the 9th of June, and the reason was that the Irish Tithe Bill and the Poor-law Bill were not disposed of. When an independent Member of that House gave a notice of a motion which he intended to make, it was rather hard to have such obstacles thrown in his way, and therefore when it came to his turn, he would certainly make the motion of which he had given notice, and he would persist in it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was far from the intention of the Ministers in taking the course suggested by his noble Friend, either to undervalue the objections made, or the plan proposed, by the hon. Member for Greenock. He certainly was prepared to show, and he thought he could state adequate grounds to convince the House, that the object the hon. Member for Greenock, had in view,
 760 l.
 Mr. A. Trevor  said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury told the House that he had no wish to widen the breach between that House and the House of Lords. The hon. Member had taken a very extraordinary mode of evincing that feeling. The hon. Member had taken the very means of aggravating that feeling. He ventured to tell the hon. Member for Finsbury, that if he anticipated, or if he was led to imagine that the House of Lords did not stand
 765
 Captain Berkeley  did not think that the hon. Member for Finsbury deserved the attack which the hon. Member for Durham had made upon him. He considered the resolution one of conciliation, and if the House of Lords took it in good part they would make a great advance in the good opinion of the country. If they received that proposition as he hoped they would, and give up the practice of voting by proxy, they would do much to conciliate the country.
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt  agreed with the hon. and gallant Member that the adoption of this resolution would tend to raise the House of Lords in the opinion of the country. If that House could be brought calmly and deliberately to review the privilege themselves, he was sure they would be disposed to give it up. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. A. Trevor) as to the right of that House to interfere with the privileges of the other, he would venture to say that, the privileges of that and of the other House of Parliament were intended for the benefit of the people, and that House as the representatives of the people, had a right to review those privileges. He remembered Several bills that had passed through that House after the most mature deliberation, and which had been read a second time in the other House with the assent of all the Lords present, and which, nevertheless, having thus received the assent of both Houses, were afterwards rejected in consequence of the proxies of those who were absent, and who never heard anything of the matter. These proxies were not given
 766
 Lord Stanley  did not think there was anything very dangerous or alarming to the other House in the motion of the hon. Gentleman, or in the manner in which it had been received; and he did not think that either from the tone of the debate or from the feeling of the House any very serious result could be anticipated from it. He could not help feeling that the right hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House had upon his mind some proceedings connected with a more recent occurrence in that House than what had taken place in the other House of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman brought forward a motion last night which he thought of great and overwhelming importance as regarded the constitution of that House, and notwithstanding this, the attendance on the right hon. Gentleman's oratory was not very great, nor was the effect very impressive. The right hon. Gentleman came down to night, and complained of what had occurred in one of the deliberative legislative assemblies of this country. He did not say which. He proceeded to ask, would any hon. Gentleman imagine that in a civilised country a practice could exist of some Members sending down others to
 767 pro con, viva voce 768 769 "Oh that some power the gift would gie us To see ourselves as others see us."
 Mr. Wakley  wished the noble Lord possessed the ocular gift to see himself as he was regarded by others, sitting where he
 770
 Sir Robert Peel  staled, that when his noble Friend rose to address the House, a similar train of thought had passed through his mind as had been so ably just urged by his noble Friend. He trusted the House would not come to a vote on the present motion until they were aware of the principle involved in the motion, and also considered how they would hereafter deal with this principle. In the Bill which they would have to consider, he trusted, immediately after the present motion was disposed of, he found the following expression:—"And be it enacted, that it
 771 772
 Lord John Russell  thought it was not to be regretted, that the Committee had not made a report precisely in the words of the resolution, because it might be the means of saving the House from coming to an immediate decision on the general question, which it was desirable to reserve for after consideration. He was the person who moved the amended resolution of the House in the year 1835. The previous resolution conferred on the Committee, the power to alter the poll by striking out or adding names; and the Speaker issued directions to have the register altered according to their alterations. He would give an instance of the system which had existed. A voter having been allowed to vote a few minutes after four o'clock, the time appointed for its close, his name was very properly struck from the poll; but, though properly struck off the poll, it did not follow that it ought to be struck out of the register, because that would be saving, that for having on one occasion voted a few minutes too late, he should not be allowed to vote in future. He thought there; was sufficient ground for not proceeding with the hon. Gentleman's motion. He must say, with respect to another point, that the resolution, as now settled by the House, was still defective; and he did not think, that the Irish Reform Act, having included no provision for striking out voters by the authority of this House, it was competent to the House by resolution merely, to give that authority to strike out voters. He concurred with the noble Lord, who was of opinion that it would be better, on some future day, to decide the important question whether the resolution in question did, or did not, extend to Ireland; he thought it did not; but he would rather not determine the matter on an occasion like the present. He was prepared to vote against the motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite; and though he agreed with the view of the hon. Member for Meath, he was not disposed to support his motion at present.
 Mr. Lawson  rose to move, pursuant to notice, "that the names of the voters reported on by the Longford Election Committee be struck off the register of voters for the county of Longford." The course of the House, he said, was manifest, and he was very glad that the hon. Member for Meath had given notice of an amendment, as this would bring the question fairly to issue. If the register were not to be purified, the  bona fide
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, that whatever might be the case in England and Scotland, the Speaker had clearly no right to authorise any clerk of the peace in Ireland, to strike the names of voters off the register, and he therefore moved, as an amendment, a resolution "that the Speaker is not authorised to direct the clerk of the pece of any borough, city, or county in Ireland, to strike the name of any voter off' the register."
 The Attorney-General  rose to express his strong objection to the motion of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, which sought by a resolution of the House to disfranchise ninety-three electors of the county of Longford. It appeared to him, that this would be a stretch of power greatly beyond the authority of the House, and that it would be a clear violation of the law. His first objection was, that the report of the Longford Election Committee in no respect corresponded with the resolution of the House of the 23rd of June, 1835. That resolution declared, that "if an Election Committee report to the House that any names ought not to be on the register, the Speaker shall take the necessary steps, by directing the town-Clerk, or clerk of the peace, to expunge those names from the register." The Longford Committee had made no such report as this; the Longford Committee merely reported that certain names ought not to have been put on the poll. It was quite clear that this was a very distinct thing from a declaration that these names should be expunged from the register. They might not have been properly put on the poll, because they were not old enough to register, or because they voted after the regular time for closing the poll, or on account of some temporary disabilities, but they might still retain a full right to be on the register, and to vote on another occasion for the county of Longford. The House must go by the resolution of the House of June, 1835, and not by that of June, 1833. The noble Lord said, he was not aware the resolution was rescinded, therefore the Longford Committee had wade this blunder, they had supposed the
 752 quo warranto 753 casus omissus. casus omissus
 Colonel Thompson  said, there was a proverbial difficulty in combating the evidence of one man who did see, with the evidence of any number of men who did not see. The question brought forward was, whether he had wrongly stated, that he heard an order for giving no quarter carried by a field-officer down the column in which he was, at the attack of Buenos Ayres. He was no party to the policy of bringing this subject a second time before the House and the public. He had introduced it once, as matter of just and, perhaps, inevitable recrimination. But as a man put now on his defence, he felt assured he should be heard with patience. The first fact with which he was furnished by the hon. Baronet opposite was, that an order to the effect described was in the General-in-chief's plan of attack two days before. The hon. Baronet would think it no discourtesy if he read again the extract from the evidence on the trial of General Whitelocke. Lieutenant-Colonel Bourke, Quartermaster-General, says, on the 3d of July, two days before the attack actually took place, "I called at General Gower's quarters and he showed me a plan of an attack on the town which he appeared to have just finished, and which was completely detailed in. all its parts; it was the same which was given out the next day in orders, with some very trifling alterations." Whether the order to give no quarter was among these trifling alterations he had not the means to ascertain. "I proceeded to inspect the advance posts at the centre, and left General Gower going, as I understood, to head-quarters with the plan. I reached head-quarters after dusk, and in the course of the evening General-Whitelocke asked my opinion of the plan of attack, which was to take place the next day at twelve o'clock. I stated my objection to one clause, which directed
 777 778 bonne bouche A gesture of incredulity from a Member on the Opposition side The United Service Journal he 779 loud laughter from the Tory side.
 Lord Worsley  objected to the measure, and moved that it be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Mackinnon  urged the House to agree to the second reading, for he believed that no objection could be urged against the measure which it would not be in their power to obviate in Committee. The question which the House had to decide was simply this—whether it was or was not desirable that the population of counties should govern themselves as regarded the public roads, or give the tremendous power which the opponents of the Bill proposed should be given, to a board appointed by whoever might be the Ministers for the time being.
 Mr. F. Maule  contended that the best guarantee for the proper management of the public roads would be to vest that management in the hands of persons appointed by and under the control of the executive Government.
 Mr. Goulburn  suggested to his hon. Friend who had brought forward the Bill that he should withdraw it, and present it at a future period in a form likely to be wore acceptable to the House.
 The Speaker  intimated a doubt whether this Motion was regular. He doubted whether it was not carrying the principle of instruction too far.
 Mr. Warburton  said, it was because the Committee had not the power to insert this provision without an instruction that it was necessary.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that this was a course of proceeding which got rid of the Second Reading; it was difficult to draw a line; the act of settlement might in this way be got rid of by an instruction to a Committee on a turnpike Bill.
 Lord John Russell  thought it inexpedient to introduce an instruction to the Committee to insert a clause in this Bill foreign to the object of it. His intention was, in conformity with what he had stated when the Bill was before the House on a former occasion, to make a provision for a relaxation of the time for the payment of taxes; and for that purpose he had prepared a Bill to regulate the payment of taxes, and to abolish the stamp duty on the admission of freemen. He proposed to leave the Act as it stood in respect to the payment of taxes for the first year up to the 5th of April, and in the subsequent years to the 1st of October supposing the name remained on the register, and he thought there would be sufficient time between the 1st. of October and the 29th of June to pay the rates and taxes. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member for Coventry would not press his Bill till the measure he had just alluded to were brought in.
 Mr. Williams  said, he saw no necessity for delaying his Bill. There was a Bill before the House, the Registration of Voters Bill, into which the provisions of the noble Lord might be introduced. What he proposed by his Bill to get rid of was a source of corruption in all our towns. He should move that the House resolve itself into a Committee on the Bill.
 Viscount Sandon  seconded this Motion, and hoped the hon. Member would not consent to postpone the Bill, especially as it was proposed to connect it with another Bill with which it had no connexion. A freeman's franchise had nothing to do with property; it represented the reward of industry, and not a money qualification.
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the hon. Member had declined to defer his Motion, he should move for leave to bring in his Bill. Whether the charges brought against the freemen were just or not, his object in the present instance was to improve, as far as possible, the condition in which they were placed in regard to the elective franchise. He would, therefore, move as an amendment for leave to bring in a Bill for altering and amending the rate-paying clauses of the Reform Act.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  objected to the course pursued by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), as in his opinion it was quite contrary to the usual practice of the House to move for leave to introduce a Bill of which no previous notice had been given as an amendment to an Order of the Day.
 The Speaker  said, it did occur to him, that according to the usual practice of the House such an Amendment could not be moved as a matter of abstract right. It was, however, for the House to consider whether, for the sake of convenience, the course which had been proposed should not be allowed in the present case.
 Lord John Russell  would not, after what had fallen from the Chair, persist in his Motion. He would, therefore, beg leave to withdraw it, and to move in its stead, that the House go into Committee on the Freemen's Admission Bill on the 21st of June.
 The Speaker  wished it to be understood that in the remarks he had made he did not mean to speak so much to the right as to the expediency of the course which had been proposed.
 Colonel Sibthorp  hoped the hon. Member for Coventry would take the sense of the House upon his Motion he had made. He considered the course which had been pursued by the noble Lord as an attempt to get rid of a Bill for improving the condition of the freemen by a side wind. Such a course was quite in keeping with the general policy of Gentlemen on his (Lord J. Russell's) side of the. House in
 792
 Mr. Trevor  hoped that the hon. Member for Coventry would persist in his motion. He was astonished that hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, who were always talking of corruption, should refuse to support a measure which tended to make the electors more independent, and he hoped the country would accept the conduct of the noble Lord as a proof of the sincerity of his intentions to improve the condition of the people.
 Mr. Maclean  saw no good reason why the noble Lord should refuse to the freemen a boon of such importance as an admission to the rights which they possessed free of all expense. It was, however, in perfect keeping with the course which had always been pursued in regard to the freemen by the noble Lord and hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House. The freemen had been treated by the Government and its supporters as if they had been the scum of society, and he had heard them called by an hon. Member on the Ministerial Benches the plague-spots of the Constitution. If the noble Lord really wished to confer a benefit on the freemen it would have been more consonant with such a desire to allow the hon. Member for Coventry to proceed with his Bill in the usual course, and to have introduced his own Bill as a separate measure.
 Mr. Philip Howard  thought, the hon. Member for Coventry had exercised a sound discretion in refusing to consent to postponement. It was not a party measure, but one which only did justice to the freemen, and as such he would give it all the support in his power.
 Mr. Aglionby  regretted the hon. Member for Coventry had not consented to postponement; and for the sake of his own measure it would have been better to consent to the course proposed by the noble Lord, as it would have had a much greater chance of passing when adopted by the Government. For his own part, however, he would say, that he could not consider the freemen as persons who could safely be trusted with the exercise of the
 793
 Mr. Williams  was placed in a situation of some difficulty, as his constituents were anxious that the bill should pass; and if it were to pass that House, he believed it would become law, which he doubted the noble Lord's measure would do.
 Lord John Russell  was sorry to find that he was compelled to oppose the further progress of this Bill; but in doing so he would not occupy the time of the House at any length. This Bill proposed to do away with all qualification arising out of the payment of rates or taxes. He was anxious to make the conditions relative to the payment of the latter as little onerous as possible, provided, however, that it could be shown that the persons in the register were  bona fide 780
 Mr. Hume  asked the noble Lord why he would make a distinction between the borough and county voters; a vast number of people were disfranchised, by no fault of theirs, and who were fully qualified to vote. Two years ago he lost his vote because his taxes were not paid in time. He was anxious to pay them, but though the collectors called at houses right and left, they did not call at his. Ministers had not been true to the professions they made when they passed the Reform Bill. The principle of Lord Grey was, that no borough should have a constituency of less than 300. How had the registration clauses worked? There were thirty or forty boroughs in which the constituency was not more than two-thirds that number.
 Mr. Grote  observed, that when the hon. Gentlemen opposite happened to agree with the noble Lord, they seemed to imagine that all who dissented from them were, as a matter of course, to be silenced. To that doctrine he would most decidedly oppose himself, and more particularly on an occasion like the present, because he knew the strong feeling which prevailed among his constituents, and among all town constituents, with respect to this measure. The other night the noble Lord objected to the introduction of abstract questions; they had now a practical question, and the noble Lord moved that the discussion of it be postponed till that day six months. If he had no better arguments to adduce in support of his views, the noble Lord might be assured he would fail to get rid of the dissatisfaction which existed on the subject in every town more or less in the kingdom. The constituencies would not be satisfied with
 781
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  observed, that the hon. Gentlemen opposite had gathered with their usual zeal when to restrict and oppress the constituencies was the object, or when he, and the hon. Gentlemen who acted with him, brought forward any proposition to extend the franchise, and, if possible, give the electors additional protection. He did not complain of the hon. Gentlemen opposite —they were pursuing only their ordinary avocation, but he did complain of the conduct of the noble Lord. The noble Lord's promises, when he introduced the Reform Bill, bad not been fulfilled. He then told them that he proposed to increase the constituency half a million; the returns showed that it had not been increased above 300,000. He imputed the deficiency to the restrictive clauses in the Reform Bill. The noble Lord also told them that it was one of his propositions that no constituency should be less than 300. He held in his hand a return of the different boroughs, and from that it appeared that in twelve boroughs the registered voters did not exceed 200; in thirty, 300; in thirty-one, 400; in thirteen, 500; in twenty-five, 600; in twenty-one, 700; in fifty-eight, 1,500; in twenty-seven, 3,000, giving a total of 217 boroughs, in every one of which the Reformers, he felt confident, would in a short time be beaten by bribery and intimidation. The hon. Gentlemen opposite knew well that they would be able in a few years to get a majority in every one of those boroughs unless something were done to extend the suffrage. It was his honest conviction that if they persisted in their present course they would soon have this House as much a borough mongering House of Commons as was that which existed prior to the passing of the Reform Bill. The noble Lord had referred to the city of Westminster as evidence of the good working of the clauses in question. What was the state of Westminster before the Reform Bill passed? No one was then required to pay the King's taxes as a qualification. It was only necessary
 782 "I was assisted by the advice of three of my colleagues—Lord John Russell, Sir James Graham, and Lord Duncannon; and, with their co-operation, the first Reform Bill was submitted to the cabinet and to the Sovereign. Of that measure I shall say no more than that if it was not entirely perfect, it was at the same time free from many of those imperfections which attended the passing of the second Reform Bill, and which, from accidental circumstances, it was impossible to guard against. I allude in particular to the 50 l. 783
 Mr. Praed  was understood to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, whether there was a readiness on the part of the board to investigate special cases, without calling upon the applicants to give a certificate of sickness, or of being in distressed circumstances? That admission that there was not, overset the whole of the right hon. Gentleman's case. When Lord Ellen-borough came to the Board of Control, he found the question in this state. There was an Act of Parliament enabling the court to give compensation to persons whose interests were affected by the discontinuance of the company's trade, and this compensation was to come out of the revenues of India. The right hon. Gentleman had pressed this latter point on the attention of the House; but when the charter was granted to the company, their commercial revenues were made over in aid of the territorial revenues of India, and therefore any charge on the commercial revenue was fairly transferred to the territorial income. The clause empowered the company to grant compensation, and was therefore directory, and every individual case ought consequently to be decided upon its own merits. The Select Committee appointed by the House to inquire into this subject was unanimous in its report, and they stated that grievances existed in particular cases, and recommended that the rule laid down by the Court of Directors should be relaxed, and that those officers who could make out a ease of prospective loss by the discontinuance of the company's trade, although they might not be in a state of abject poverty, should receive compensation. He thought, however, that the Court of Directors were the sole judges of the merits of each particular case, and of the amount of compensation, but he certainly understood that both the company and the board were bound to consider whether any individual bad suffered loss by the cessation of the trade, and then, even if that individual were worth ten millions of money, he would be defrauded if, a loss having been proved, he did not receive compensation. It would be mere satisfactory to him, as there were difficulties in dealing with the Bill itself, if he could receive an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman that the board would intimate to the Court of Directors their wish
 788
 Mr. V. Smith  said, that the condition required was nothing new in the history of the East India Company. He maintained that these officers had received no injury, because the company had for some time before the charter been contracting their service, and for the last two or three years had chartered ships from voyage to voyage, and therefore ample notice to quit had been given to the officers. He should certainly vote against the second reading of the Bill, for he saw no chance or prospect of effecting such alterations in the measure, when passing through Committee, as could render it acceptable to the country, or fair towards the parties principally concerned. He hoped the House, then, would save the company and the people of England from these additional claims. It was most especially to be recollected, that the persons on whose behalf these claims were made, would not be left destitute, for the East India Company were authorised to relieve any case of extreme distress.
 Mr. Hawes  observed, that every speaker who addressed the House admitted the justice of the claims, but for some reason or other, which he could not understand, refused to consider them in the proper quarter; for his part, he should support the Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  observed, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Hobhouse) had assented to the appointment of a Committee, taking the chance of their report being favourable to his views; but now, finding that report opposed to his wishes, he declared his intention to do as he had done before.
 Mr. Robinson  moved the second reading of the East India Maritime Officers' Bill. When it was determined that the East India Company should cease to trade, it was resolved that compensation should be given to the maritime officers whose interests would be thereby affected. In 1834 the East India Company adopted a certain rule, by which those who had been in service during the five years preceding that time should receive compensation, but all others should be refused it. Under these circumstances he felt it his duty to apply to the House for a Committee to inquire into the cases of certain officers whose interests had been injured by the adoption of that rule. The Committee had reported that certain officers had been improperly deprived of compensation by the operation of the rule. Lord Glenelg said, that he never would have consented to the rule if he had thought that those who might be excluded would not have their cases specially entered on. This Bill merely gave the officers the right of having their cases adjudicated on the special merits of each. These gentlemen had now been applying for two years; and he was glad to have an opportunity of making an appeal on their behalf to the justice and liberality of Parliament.
 Sir Charles Broke Vere  did not doubt but that the hon. Member saw an officer riding along the line making the remark that he had stated, but he was satisfied that it was not a general order. He was anxious that the character of the army should be free from any thing approaching to the shadow of a stain, and therefore he had made the observations which he did.
 Sir C. Broke Vere  seeing the hon. and gallant Member for Hull in his place, he would take that opportunity of referring to a statement made by the hon. Gentleman on a former night, relative to certain proceedings which that hon. Member alleged took place at the attack on Buenos Ayres, in 1808, and which he (Sir C. B. Vere) took the liberty of contradicting the accuracy of at that time. Since that time he had written to several officers who were present at the attack on that place, who confirmed the view he had taken of the subject. The first was from a general Officer, who said, that no such order had been issued as was described by the gallant officer; the next was from an officer who was an aide-de-camp of the commander, and he stated he did not know of any such order being issued. The next was from an officer commanding one of the columns of attack, who stated, that no such order had been issued. He had also similar letters from several other officers who were present, who stated, that no such order had been issued; he, therefore, was justified in asserting that no general order, no brigade order, no regimental order, and, indeed, no order of any authority, had been issued similar to that described by the hon. and
 776
 Sir John Hobhouse  thought that those officers could not complain of not being heard, as the hon. Gentleman had made an eloquent speech on the occasion when the subject was last before the House; he had made a speech that evening, and
 786 l. 787
 Lord G. Lennox  said, that if the hon. Member brought forward his motion solely on public grounds, he should like to know why he had confined himself to railways on one side. Then were the
 805
 Sir E. Wilmot  thought it only justice to the hon. Member who had last spoken, to state, that as his name had on a former occasion been mentioned in connexion with the Deptford and Dover railway, there was not a tittle of evidence to connect the hon. Gentleman with any improper proceedings in regard to that railway. He, as a Member of the Deptford and Dover Committee, thought he only discharged his duty in making that fact known to the House.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  proposed an amendment, with a view of making each separate parish or town-land responsible for its own poor.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the proposal of the hon. Member would, if carried into effect, assimilate the practice in Ireland to that of England, and introduce the separate rating of distinct parishes into that country. The circumstances of the two countries being different,—in the one a Poor-law having been in operation, in the other a Poor-law being about to be introduced,—it would be inexpedient to adopt the same system. It was, however, to be recollected, that the English Bill was more favourable to the combined system than
 807
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that the House should come to a decision as to the practicability of making a Poor-law, which had no provisions for settlement, work well.—Should the House determine that the principle of settlement must be adopted, he was willing to consider the schemes which might be proposed.
 Mr. O'Connell  was of opinion, that the Government had excluded settlement from their Bill. Those who wished for settlement should bring forward their views in the form of amendments. If the House could introduce the law of settlement, it would hesitate to do so after its experience of the mischief which it had effected in England. It might make the landlords attend more to their estates, but the advantages which that argument held out were encountered by the fact, that it gave rise to a series of litigation which would ultimately exhaust the land.
 Mr. C. Buller  was of opinion, that there could be no efficient system of Poor-laws without a law of settlement; without a law of settlement, every such system would be a complete delusion. Local settlement and local charges were the prime points of the Poor-law.
 Lord John Russell  wished that some definite proposition should be brought forward, on which the House might decide. It would be unfair to ask hon. Members to decide on the principle of settlement at once, when they might afterwards find that insuperable objections existed to every scheme of carrying that principle into effect.
 Sir James Graham  was sorry to add to the difficulty in which the House was placed. This, however, was the marrow of this most difficult subject. Mendicancy, it was admitted on all hands, was the great
 808
 Mr. S. O'Brien  admitted, that the right hon. Baronet had put the subject on the right ground. He hoped, however, the Government would not permit a law of settlement to be introduced.
 Lord John Russell  thought, that his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) had not added to the difficulty of the question, but had facilitated the solution of it. It should be recollected, that if a right to be relieved somewhere were conferred, a right to removal to that particular place would follow. His right hon. Friend, or some other hon. Member might bring forward a distinct proposition to the desired effect.
 Mr. Shaw  was prepared to move some limitations to the relief which this Act would afford; he wished its operation to be confined to the sick, the infirm, and the aged. If destitution were made the test of just claims to relief, many difficulties would be the consequence, for each person who was destitute would imagine himself possessed of an equal right with others to relief.
 Sir Robert Bateson  was aware of the evils which had followed on the law of settlement in England; but he feared that greater evils would ensue if it were not introduced into Ireland. The opinion of the town of Belfast had been alluded to; it would, however, be recollected, that there was a great influx of Irish paupers on their road home from England into that town; and that there was some apprehension lest they should settle there. His wish was to tax the absentees, whereas, without a law of settlement, the taxation for the purposes of a Poor-law would affect the residents only.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the Members of the Government had made up their minds long ago, and, indeed, he had stated so two months ago. He was ready to consider any proposition on the subject then or to-morrow, as might be agreed on. He did not, however, think
 809
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to prefix some preliminary words, to the effect that "the Commissioners who might be appointed to carry the Act into execution, should be styled the Poor-law Commissioners for Ireland, and sit in Dublin."
 The Chairman  observed, that the hon. and learned Member was moving a specific Clause, which must be reserved till the end of the Bill.
 Lord Stanley  wished to move an amendment, in conformity with that of the hon. Member for Dundalk, for the purpose of bettering the discretion vested in the Commissioners. The Commissioners were to be endowed with the power of declaring districts to be unions, without reference to existing civil or ecclesiastical divisions. He, however, must object to their being empowered to interfere with the limits of property, and he thought that the extent of rate-paying ought to be conterminous with the boundaries of property. A proper centre for unions should be fixed, round which the other places might lie. The boundary of town lands was observed in estates; the same practice was followed in unions. If leave were given to the Commissioners to alter the boundaries, their parallelograms would, no doubt, appear very neat on paper; but the effect of the arrangement would be mischievous, for the property of the same individual might be parcelled out into different unions. He was in favour of the law of settlement; if the right to be conferred were a local one, then there should be a local assessment; if the right were a national one, then should the assessment be national also. He was for the local system, because it would give to every man an immediate interest in keeping down pauperism. He should now move that the words after "declare" should be omitted for the purpose of inserting the words "to unite such and so many town lands or towns for the purpose of making such union as they may think fit."
 Lord John Russell  admitted, that there would be a great advantage in adopting the division of town lands. He would not then object to the amendment, reserving always his right to oppose it,
 Lord John Russell  thought, that this was a very inconvenient restriction to be imposed upon the Commissioners. The hon. Gentleman would perceive, that the Bill did not propose any particular limit for the extent of the union, but left that to the discretion of the Commissioners. The hon. Gentleman's proposition would confine the Commissioners, where there was a population of 6,000 persons within the area he suggested, to a space, the limits of which would be less than two miles and a-half from the workhouse, and which would hardly contain a sufficient number of persons fit to form a Board of Guardians. There were forty unions in England, of which the population exceeded 10,000 persons, and they were very much better managed than those unions which had only 3,000 or 4,000 inhabitants. There was another consideration to which he begged to call the attention of the hon. Gentleman, which pointed out the wisdom of leaving a good deal to the discretion of the Commissioners. The Bill proposed, that relief be given in the workhouse. Now, if relief were given in the workhouse only, the business of the guardians would be far more simple, and would require far less attention and time, than was the case in England. The guardians in England had to consider the different rates levied, or to be levied, in the different parishes of the union, the claims of poor and infirm persons, and other matters, which occupied many hours in the day. But if relief were given in the workhouse only, the time of the guardians in Ireland would be very little occupied. If, however, the Committee should come to a different opinion, and say, that relief ought not to be confined to the workhouse, and that out-door relief should be given, then the Commissioners might come to a very different opinion as to the extent of the unions; but in either case, it would be far better to leave the rule to the discretion of the Commissioners. For these reasons, he hoped the Committee would not assent to the proposal of the hon. Gentleman, and would leave the point undecided.
 Lord Stanley  was inclined, on the whole, to agree with his noble Friend opposite,
 812
 Lord Clements  quite agreed with the general remarks which had been made by the hon. Member for Monaghan; but he could not concur in his conclusion. In matters of this sort it was best to look to experience, he admitted; but, when one of the Poor-law Commissioners recommended an area of 400 square miles for an union, he turned to see whether there was anything of the kind in England. He had extracted the accounts of the number of square miles in the area of the twelve largest unions which at present existed in England, and he found that not one of them equalled 300 square miles. He thought, therefore, that it was necessary for the House to express some opinion as to the size of the unions in Ireland. He should, therefore, move the following amendment—"Provided always, that in every case where the proposed union exceeds an area of 150 square miles, and the population in such union exceeds 25,000 persons, the Commissioners, at the
 813
 Mr. Lucas  observed, that he owed every deference to the suggestions which had been made by hon. Members, and if the House had agreed with him as to the propriety of his amendment, he should have proposed that each district should be separately liable for its proportion of the expenses of the workhouse. However, as the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had indicated a wish to localise the expenditure of each union, he was quite content to withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. Lucas  withdrew his amendment. The Chairman put the amendment proposed by Lord Clements.
 Mr. Wyse  was understood to say, that the House had not yet provided proper machinery to work the Bill. He was afraid, therefore, that they would get into difficulties.
 Viscount Howick  hoped the noble Lord, the Member for Leitrim, would withdraw the amendment which he had proposed, because there was no good ground for restricting the discretion of the Commissioners. If they were to insert a proviso in the Bill to the effect that these unions should not exceed a definite limit, the Commissioners, under whatever circumstances might arise, would probably meet with great difficulty and opposition in any attempt which they might make, by increasing that limit, to adapt it to the exigencies of a particular case.
 Lord Clements  was of opinion, that none of the arguments which he had heard from hon. Members, affected the principle of his proviso. If no limit were assigned, he could not see any thing to prevent the Commissioners from making the unions of far too great an extent to be practically beneficial. For his part, he was not at all desirous to confine the Poor-law Commissioners in the exercise of their power, in any way which could be justly considered harsh or irksome towards them. All he sought, was the establishment of such an arrangement as would be productive of the best practical relief, and he trusted, in this matter, to have the support of the Irish Members, who were now in Committee.
 Mr. James Grattan  could not concur in opinion with the noble Lord upon this subject. His noble Friend's proposition wag of too expensive a nature. He would, in effect, treble the number of poor establishments. Moreover, in his opinion, if the limits of the unions were narrow, the class of persons who would fill the office of guardians, would not be of the most respectable description. He thought the proposed Poor-law Bill would work exceedingly well; at all events it would put a stop to jobbing—a calamity by which Ireland had been proverbially afflicted.
 Mr. P. Thomson  thought, that the question was decided by the observation which had fallen from the hon. Member for Wicklow—namely, that in unions of a limited extent, it would be difficult to find persons properly qualified to act as guardians. It was quite clear, that the Commissioners would make the unions of the size which circumstances would render most desirable; and to their decision he trusted the noble Lord would leave the matter.
 Sir J. Graham  denied that the management of the Poor-law establishments in England had been proved to be good, in proportion to the extent of the unions. He was disposed to think, that the more they concentrated local knowledge, the more they would conduce to the advantage of the paupers generally. By increasing the area, they would increase the difficulty of attendance at the Board of Guardians, particularly of those whose attendance would be most desirable.
 Mr. Lennard  differed from the right hon. Baronet. No matter how extensive the district, no applicant could make his appearance before the Board of Guardians, of whom some member of the board would not possess some knowledge.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, that they were now about to try an entirely new experiment in Ireland. They were about to introduce into that country, a system which had been hitherto untried in any part of the empire. While they established a system of taxation for the relief of the poor, they acknowledged, on the part of the poor, no right to this relief, except according to the discretion and good will of the persons who laid on the rate. With respect to the Amendment, he believed, that it would be found wise and politic to give to the Commissioners as large powers as they possibly could.
 815
 Lord Clements  withdrew his amendment.
 Mr. O'Brien  suggested that no electoral district should contain more than 6,000 inhabitants. Such a number would be as many as could be attended to.
 Lord Stanley  proposed that these words should be added to the clause:—"that any such union shall be divided in such a manner, that no townland comprised within an union shall be divided." By adopting this rule they would adhere to some certain and recognised boundary in the divisions of unions.
 Lord John Russell  objected to the amendment on the ground that the adoption of such a principle would be attended with considerable inconvenience.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  moved as an amendment, that for 3,000 inhabitants there should be at least one guardian.
 Lord Morpeth  said, it would be better to leave the matter to the discretion of the Commissioners.
 Mr. Forbes  objected to the motion.
 Sir A. L. Hay  entered the House, and said, that till the moment he entered the House, he was totally unaware of the motion which had been submitted to its consideration. The vote he had given had no reference to the adoption or rejection of any particular line out of the competing railways, but was given with a view of bringing before the House sufficient evidence to enable the House to decide as to the merits of the rival lines. In regard to his name being on the subscription list, he acknowledged that he was a shareholder, and still continued to be so, but his vote on the occasion alluded to was given conscientiously, and were the same motion before the House, he would again give his vote in its favour.
 Mr. Hastie  considered that he had been most uncourteously dealt with, as he had received no notice of the present motion till he had seen it in the votes of the House. Before his election he had purchased twenty shares, but in March of last year, having been returned a Member of that House, he disposed of those hares in the following April, and he had now no connexion with any of the lines of railway to Brighton. Having stated this much, he thought it was unnecessary for him to say more, as the House would see that he had violated no rule, and his vote had been given from a conviction that he was only discharging his duty to the public, and not from any personal or interested motives.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  thought it was a farce to lay down a rule that no person should vote on motions regarding railways or other undertakings, who were shareholders, as Members, though not shareholders, might be actuated by a feeling stronger even than one which was purely personal. It was impossible to find out the actual motives which influenced any one to vote, and it would, in his opinion, be better to leave it to hon. Members themselves to determine on all occasions whether they ought or ought not to vote, and never to call in question the vote of any Member, on the ground of his being a shareholder in any undertaking which might be the subject of a division.
 Mr. Pease  said, that it was extremely
 803
 Mr. Pease  said, his name was not on the list, it was the name of a relation.
 Captain Alsager  supported the motion, and said that, although some of the hon. Members, whose names appeared in the motion, had denied all connexion with the Brighton railway, yet their names still stood on the subscription list. Now, that subscription list was the one by which the House was to be guided in forming its opinion as to the probability of the undertaking being completed, should the Bill pass the House. It was the guarantee which the House had required for the protection of the public against gambling speculations, and if hon. Members had actually withdrawn their subscriptions, and their names still stood on the contract for large sums, then the list was no longer a  bona Jide
 Mr. T. Attwood  observed, that he had seen the names of his colleague, and a near relative of his own, in the motion, and as both were absent, he considered it his duty to state, that he was perfectly persuaded they would be able to give as satisfactory an explanation of their conduct as had been given by other hon. Members. He thought the hon. Member who had brought forward the motion, had acted rashly in not making himself better acquainted with the facts of the case, and that he had been wanting in courtesy in giving no intimation of his intentions to those who were so prominently brought forward in his motion.
 Mr. Tooke  had no connexion with, nor any personal interest in, any of the railways to Brighton, or if he could be said to have any private interest in the success or defeat of any of the lines, it would have been in the defeat of Stephenson's line, the very one on the Parliamentary contract of which his name appeared as a subscriber. He had at one time held
 804
 Sir C. Burrell  thought the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward the motion, ought not to be allowed to withdraw it, and that it ought in justice to the Gentlemen who had been so prominently noticed, to receive a decided negative by the House. The motion had been most improperly brought forward, and it was a case of very great hardship that no notice had been given, as some of those who were deeply interested in the matter were, as he understood, in the country, and had no opportunity of vindicating their conduct.
 Sir J. Graham  could not agree with the hon. Member for West Surrey, that the votes of Members should never be questioned, and should the hon. Member bring forward a specific motion, embodying the principle for which he had contended, he (Sir J. Graham) should be prepared to contend by argument against such doctrines, and by his vote to support a contrary motion, for it was his opinion, that whenever a pecuniary interest could be established, the vote should be struck off. In the present case, however, he did think that it would have been only courteous for the hon. Member, who had brought forward the motion, to have given some intimation of his intentions before placing such a personal notice on the votes of the House, and he further considered, that he ought to have made himself better acquainted with the facts of the case, for in three out of the six instances specified in the motion, the facts of his position had been distinctly negatived.
 Sir S. Whalley  said, that the hon.
 806
 Sir S. Whalley  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the division which had taken place on the motion of the hon. Member for Shoreham (Sir C. Burrell) on the 9th inst, for an instruction to the Committee on the Brighton Railways. In the majority on that occasion he found the names of several hon. Members whose names also appeared on the subscription-list for one of the lines of Brighton railway for considerable sums, and according to the rules of the House he considered that the votes of those Gentlemen ought not to have been allowed. Last year he had been a shareholder in one of the railways before the House and his vote had been struck out of a division in regard to that railway in consequence. He brought forward the motion purely On public grounds, and would not offer any opinion as to the practice of the House; but, considering the small amount of the majority on the occasion to which his motion alluded, and also disapproving of the motion itself, he thought he had only done his duty in affording the House an opportunity of revising its decision. He would beg to move, "That the resolution respecting the Brighton Railways of the 9th instant, which was carried by a majority of five, be entered on the journals as negatived, in consequence of the following six Members having voted for it, who have subscribed the Parliamentary contract for Stephenson's line, viz. Matthias Attwood, Esq., 4,000 l l l. l l l
 Colonel Wood  said, that if the proposed plan of settlement would entail such a system of litigation as that which prevailed in England, he would not support it; but he thought they might adopt a plan of settlement which would be free from those liabilities with which the law of England was entangled. He would make the law of settlement in Ireland assimilate to that of Scotland, namely, a residence of three years; and if a man fell into destitution, he must make his way back to the parish in which he had resided three years. He would give no man a title to relief out of the parish in which he had been resident three years. He would expunge from the Bill those clauses that made mendicity a crime, and would certainly not mix vagrancy and parochial relief under the same Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed the pleasure which he felt at the tone and temper in which the present discussion had been carried on. They had now been three nights engaged in it; and he defied any stranger to say to what political party any speaker belonged. The question of settlement was one of great importance. They had to decide, in the first place, on the legal right; in the second place, on the locality; in the third place, on the plan. For his own part, he was against any law of settlement; because he was persuaded that it was against the principle of legal right. There was a moral right and a Christian right; but those did not constitute a legal right. What was the object of the proposed measure? To tranquillize Ireland. But would it tend to tranquillise Ireland to give one man a right to ask what another man had a right to refuse? On these points he perfectly agreed with the hon. and learned Member for the Univertity of Dublin. He confessed, that he shuddered at the experiment of this Bill. The execution of which he foresaw would be pregnant with serious difficulties.
 Lord Stanley  said, that it was with rare satisfaction he had seen the hon. Member who had just sat down and the right hon. Member for the Universities of Dublin acting in perfect accordance upon a subject which was undeniably of such great importance, to Ireland: With the greatest deference, however, for the opinions of both these hon. and learned Gentlemen, he confessed that he could not bring his mind to the same conclusion to which they had arrived—to the conclusion, that, either satisfactorily or safely, any measure of this description could be introduced into Ireland, without the principle of settlement, coupled with the right to relief. The hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny complained of this motion upon two grounds. He objected to the principle of a settlement, first because it involved the right to relief; and next, because there had been laid before the House no definitive mode of settlement. He could not separate, in his mind, the two ideas—a law of settlement, and the right to relief. This Bill subjected the relief to the fluctuating decisions of a board of guardians, uninfluenced, upon this subject, by legislative control. The hon.
 846 847 848
 Mr. Goulburn  did not wish to get into a discussion on the financial subject at that late hour, and if his right hon. Friend felt any objection to his making a few observations, and asking a question, he would postpone doing so if an opportunity was afforded him within a few days to bring forward the subject at an early hour. In the first place, then, with respect to the present motion he wished to allude to the hour at which it was brought forward. This was the first time for a long series of years that this vote was postponed until such a late period. He did not mean to say that any inconvenience had occurred in consequence of the postponement of this motion, but still some explanation was called for in consequence of the peculiar nature of the case. When Exchequer Bills were voted it was always accompanied by an express understanding by Parliament to the holders of them that they should be paid out of the first supplies moved in Parliament. By this means they had a great security of having them paid off, out of the first supplies in the ensuing year, therefore a practice had always hitherto prevailed of voting them at the earliest period of the Session. The next subject to which he wished to call the attention of his right hon. Friend respected the amount of Exchequer Bills that had been paid off out of the Sinking Fund. A paper had been laid on the table and printed, respecting the payments out of the Sinking Fund. It appeared that between the 5th of January and the 22nd of April, the amount of Exchequer Bills paid off out of the Sinking Fund was 1,470,000 l. 853 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Goulburn  felt quite satisfied with that assurance.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was evident that an error had occurred in making out the account. It was stated distinctly that 1,400,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Wortley  hoped that the House would do justice to the suffering hand-loom weavers, by allowing the Bill to be introduced.
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to such a Bill being brought in, if the motion was made at a proper time; but he certainly did object to its being moved as an amendment when there was another question before the House. As it was, if the hon. Member made his motion it would lead to a discussion, which would probably last the whole evening; he therefore recommended him to postpone it to a future day.
 Lord J. Russell  rose to move, that the House at its rising adjourn until Wednesday. He would take the liberty of saying a word or two on a practice which had formerly prevailed, and which he had been
 822
 Lord John Russell  said, that he had listened with very great attention during the progress of this debate, and that he had not been disposed to take a part in it, but that after what had fallen from the noble Lord who had just sat down, he must venture to make a few remarks. The noble Lord had said that they ought to establish the absolute right to relief, or ought not to enact a Poor-law at all for Ireland. Now, he was decidedly of opinion that the Poor-law of Elizabeth, which he believed was a very excellent law, had never been framed with the intention of giving any right to relief, and, in point of fact, did not give such right. The authors of the law of Charles 2nd were mistaken in enacting their law of settlement, from
 849 850
 Mr. Lynch  opposed the motion. He could not understand the justice of removing paupers from one part of the country to the other, as the hon. Gentleman proposed. What would that hon. Gentleman think if a cargo of paupers were taken from one part of Ireland and placed upon his own estates in Monaghan? In his opinion a census never could be adopted as the foundation for a law of settlement. There was, however, a preliminary question to be determined before the law of settlement was determined upon, for the House ought to remember that a law of settlement depended upon an abstract right to relief. If there were no right, there could be no law of settlement. If, then, they had first determined upon the abstract right, they must give relief out of doors. He asked those who were acquainted with the country, if it would not
 834 835
 Mr. C. Buller  objected to the rule, because it did not go half far enough. He thought that the suggestion of the hon. Member for Middlesex as to referring petitions to Committees was worthy of serious attention.
 Mr. Charles Buller  was sorry, that the hon. Member for Monaghan had encumbered his motion with a specification of settlement which he did not, in the first place, understand; and which, in the second place, he could not vote for. It appeared to him, that this was a question of such importance, that it merited greater discussion than they had been able to give it on the second reading. The whole question of the good of relief turned upon the question of settlement. It appeared to him, that without an adequate law of settlement, the provision which they might make for the legal relief of the poor, would lose the greater part of the benefits which it would otherwise confer upon Ireland. The great advantage which would arise from a Poor-law Bill, was not the immediate relief it would give, so much as the gradual change it would produce in putting an end to destitution. Gradual and permanent improvement, less than immediate relief, was the object to which he looked. One great mode in which the Poor-law would operate beneficially, would be the effect it would have on the taking and letting of land. The great mass of the working population in Ireland, at present, were dependent on the taking of land. He did not think he exaggerated, when he said that the greater portion of the landed property was let amongst small
 836 837
 Mr. Hindley  proposed that the discussion be postponed till Wednesday.
 Mr. P. Thomson  explained that he had no objection to the introduction of the Bill. His objection was to its being introduced at the present moment.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  denied that Government had opposed any obstacles in the way of the hon. Member. He (Mr. P. Thomson) had been there twice on notice days when the hon. Member had given notice of his intention to bring in the Bill
 825
 Mr. Villiers  observed, that the noble Lord had treated the subject with great ability, and shown more knowledge than had yet been displayed upon the subject of settlement; and as he had exhibited how it had proved a fertile source of mischief and injustice in this country, he would just remark, that it had done so precisely in the manner by which some Members
 841 842
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that this was one of the few cases in which Ireland happened to be in a better situation than England; they might, therefore proceed
 843 844
 Mr. Lucas  rose to move the instruction to the Committee of which he had given notice. The hon. Member for Dundalk had given notice of certain amendments which he should have deferred to had it not appeared to him that they brought the question before the House by implication instead of in a distinct form; and the opinion which he entertained of the m was shared with him by the Committee on this Bill of last night. The amendment he was now prepared to move was to the following effect: "That it be an instruction to the Committee to introduce a provision for settlement, so as more justly to apportion the pecuniary charges to be incurred and levied tinder the name of poor-rates." He thought the first inquiry he ought to make was, what was meant by the term "law of settlement." He only knew of the term as it was recognised by the law of England prior to the passing of the Poor-law Amendment Act. The law of England, prior to the late amendments, gave to the poor the right of relief—if not in terms, at all events the practice under that law had given a right by prescription, so that, as it was understood and acted on, those who in any parish were destitute had a right to call on that parish for relief. The relief was given on certain conditions, which constituted the law of settlement. The object of imposing those conditions seemed to have been to confine and regulate, or possibly to limit, the claims on each parish; thus the parishes were each surrounded with a certain imaginary line, the poor within which could claim relief, and the poor without which could not. It was concluded that as the rates were confined to the parish, and as the introduction of poor persons, and persons likely to become chargeable, would add to the burthen of each individual parish, the rate-payers would be influenced by the strongest motives to oppose the introduction of such parties. Such had
 828 829 830 831 832 833
 Mr. Shaw  might be satisfied as to the expediency of a law of settlement in Ireland, if it could be proved to him that by injuring the rich the poor would be benefitted. The whole question was very important. It was beset with difficulties; and all that could be done was to endeavour to arrive at the best conclusion. In his opinion, the balance of difficulties was decidedly against the law of settlement. He admitted, however, that some of the existing evils would be obviated when the unions were generally established. Independently of other considerations, he thought that the proposed measure either did not go far enough, or that it went too far. He was convinced that if a right to
 845
 Mr. Aglionby  implored his hon. Friend not to press his motion for the introduction of the Bill at the present moment, for it would injure the cause he had in view if he thus endeavoured to force it.
 Mr. Warburton  did not wish to sanction the practice established by the Speaker on the ground of antiquity, but he would do so on the reasonableness of it. It would be impossible to conduct the public business in that House if their time could be taken up, at the pleasure of hon. Members, by discussions on the presentation of petitions. It was just as impossible that two bodies should occupy the same space as that the Members of that House should find time for debating on petitions and for conducting the ordinary business of the House. He considered the practice that had been recurred to was a most useful practice, and he hoped the House would not break through it. It should also be recollected that it was sufficient to give notice of the presentation of a petition to be able to make a statement on it. By this means greater attention was given to the more important petitions than was formerly the case. At present all petitions were referred to a Select Committee, who, reported to the House the nature and
 824
 Mr. John Maxwell  rose to move, as an amendment to the motion of the noble Lord for an adjournment, for leave to bring in a Bill to give publicity to the prices of hand-loom weavers. He should persist in this motion if the noble Lord or the President of the Board of Trade did not promise that the Government would take up the subject, and do something for that most deserving class of persons whose cause he advocated. He trusted that the noble Lord would not be led away on this subject by the President of the Board of Trade. The hon. Member concluded by moving accordingly.
 Mr. Maxwell  said, that he should persist in his motion.
 Mr. Hume  must differ from the noble Lord, unless he were prepared with some other plan of taking notice of petitions. He thought it would be better to lay the petitions on the table of the House, to classify them, and then name a day on which they might be taken into consideration. If some such plan were not adopted, he thought it would be better to leave the matter to the discretion of Members, as, for instance, the case of the petitions that had been presented by the hon. Member for Berkshire on an important subject was an occasion on which he thought the rule should be relaxed.
 Mr. Chalmers  stated, that hon. Gentlemen opposite were mistaken in supposing that the law of settlement was carried into effect in the greater part of Scotland. It was only in operation in a few parishes, and in all of these it was found to be most oppressive in its operation. He hoped that the noble Lord and the House would not rashly adopt the principle of settlement.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  did not think a Poor-law could work well in Ireland without some law of settlement. A modified system of settlement could not do much harm, and that, to a certain extent, appeared to be the opinion of the Poor-law Commissioners. But, at the same time, he was ready to admit, it was a subject surrounded with great difficulties, and the question was, which side to choose. For his part, he did not think such a law of settlement as that which existed in England would be advisable, or even one like that proposed by the hon. Member for Monaghan. But unless some system of the sort was adopted the great number of paupers who would flock to particular localities would greatly aggravate the difficulties which, the guardians had to contend with. Even at present, great inconvenience arose from the system of alms-giving, and it was not unusual to hear of persons going to a particular district and accusing themselves of murder, in order to obtain alms from the inhabitants by exciting their sympathy. They ought, therefore, to guard against that, and how could the evil be prevented without power was given to pass mendicants to their places of settlement? If relief was refused in cases of distress, that would only increase the number of mendicants, and how inconvenient would it be to leave the amount of relief to the guardians, and compel them to make an act or by-law which ought to be made by the Legislature? He believed there was no country in the world where there was a Poor-law without a settlement. He was, therefore, of opinion, that it would be advisable to adopt a modified system of settlement at first, till they saw how the Bill would work.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proposed, that a sum not exceeding 11,000,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that if he had had an opportunity of rising at an earlier period of the night, he would have gone at greater length into an explanation of the state of the unfunded debt. If there was anything imperfect in what he was going to say, he trusted that his right hon. Friend would consent to his postponing his explanation till a future opportunity, when he would go at greater length into the subject. The first point that had been referred to by his right hon. Friend was, that it was more usual to take the vote for Exchequer Bills at an earlier period of the Session, but he did not do so, from two motives; the first was, that there had been an alteration of the commencement of the financial year, and he, therefore, considered that no inconvenience could result from the postponement of the vote. But there was another motive which was still more important. In the course of the last Session the right hon. Gentleman called the attention of the House, and his attention to the nature and state of the unfunded debt. He admitted the peculiar necessity of directing great attention to this subject,
 854 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 855 l. l. l. 856
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted that there must have been some error in the adding up of the account, and pledged himself to investigate the whole of the matter on the following day.
 Mr. Wakley  wished to know precisely how far a Member was allowed to go. Merely stating the place whence a petition came, and its prayer, was a useless ceremony, and they might as well put petitions into the bag at once without saying a word. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet opposite, that too much time was 1st in that House in useless discussions, but it was not upon petitions. He was sorry to say that more time had been consumed by the hon. Gentlemen opposite opposing justice to Ireland than had ever been done upon petitions.
 Mr. Wyse  agreed with the noble Lord that there should be every facility given to create in every district a direct focal interest in supporting their own poor, and preventing the influx of paupers from remote districts.
 Sir J. Graham  could not concur with the statement of the hon. Member for Middlesex. So far from regretting, he
 823
 Mr. Denis O'Conor  was of opinion, that without some law of settlement, it would be impossible to carry the measure into effect. If a provision for this purpose were not made here, it would be made in the districts in Ireland in a manner to lead to dissatisfaction and disturbance. If there were a local rate, there ought
 838
 Lord Clements  thought, that the question of settlement would be attended with insuperable difficulties. AH they could do now was to relieve the poor, as this Bill, in his opinion, would not, and could not, put a stop to the undue competition for land.
 Viscount Howick  said, the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard had taken a much too narrow view of the objects and principle of a Poor-law. According to the principles laid down by him, it would be necessary not only to have a law of settlement, but a settlement limiting so many small subdivisions, that almost every estate would be a district in itself. He disputed the truth of the position, that a Poor-law ought to operate so directly upon the relation between landlord and tenant, nor did he agree that a Poor-law should operate over the whole population of the country. If they were to set out by acting upon such a principle as this, they would, instead of diminishing, greatly increase the distress of Ireland, and at the same time, weaken the mainspring of industry. Amongst the advocates for a law of settlement who had spoken to-night, two at least had advocated the principle without attaching to it the principle of right to relief. Now, he could not understand how a law of settlement, unaccompanied by a right to relief somewhere, could be brought to work. He thought it would be very hard, as well as very impolitic, to confine a man to one district, and absolutely deny him the possibility of relief elsewhere, and yet not positively promise him relief in the settlement to which he belonged, and to which he was so restricted. The hon. Member for Monaghan, in introducing this proposition, said he did not wish it to interfere with the right of migration, or to induce removal as a necessary consequence. He really was at a loss to conceive how any law of settlement, with such limitations, could be devised. The same hon. Member proposed, that a census should be taken, and that settlement should be fixed by residence. Now, upon this point, he begged to read the opinion of the English Commissioners in 1834:—
 "It will be seen, that we do not recommend the introduction of settlement by residence, We are aware of the advantages of that mode of settlement; it is the most natural and the most obvious, and its adoption would often prevent inconvenience to particular parishes, from the return, in age or infirmity, of those who have left them in youth and vigour, and inconvenience to the paupers themselves, from being removed from friends and residences to which they have become attached, to places in
 839 840
 Viscount Palmerston  observed, that the rule that had been laid down was as much for the interests of the petitioners as it was for the facilitating the conducting the public business. He hoped the House would adhere to the practice as a general rule.
 Lord Sandon  agreed with all those who had said there should be no debate upon petitions; and he was sure that the House would, in general, bow to the authority of the Speaker on the subject. The rule, however, ought not to be too strict.
 Viscount Sandon  said, they must come to a law of settlement some way or other. He would not leave it to Commissioners to act arbitrarily, by adopting one rule in one district, and an opposite one in another. He thought himself warranted in referring rather to the wisdom of Parliament than to any body of men.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, the promoters of the Bill had no objection to the clause, and he congratulated hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House on their not having adopted the religion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath.
 Lord Granville Somerset  said, that although he had been a member of the committee on this subject he could not concur in the recommendations made in their report, because he did not believe the alterations which they proposed were either practicable or wise, or that they would remedy the evils complained of. Of what advantage would the judge be? He might lay down and explain the law, but if the committee were not bound to abide by his judgment it was obvious that he would be placed in a very awkward position, as he would be little better than
 861
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that although he could not charge hon. Gentlemen opposite with much hypocrisy, yet he thought there was a pretty considerable deal of humbug among them. He begged to state, that if the Bill of the hon. Baronet opposite should ever get into Committee, he should move the insertion of a clause to shut up the Carlton Club on the Sabbath—as he had been very much shocked of late by observing, as he passed by on his way to church, several eminent Conservatives reading, not their Bibles or Prayer-books, but the  John Bull Age.
 Mr. C. Buller,  in moving in Committee the postponement of the first clause observed, that the dissatisfaction with Election
 859 860
 Dr. Bowring  opposed the clause which the hon. Member for Wigtonshire had had inserted into the Bill, preventing the use of the railway on the Sabbath.
 Mr. Dunlop  said, that as an Act] of Parliament prevented canal boats and stage coaches from being worked on the Sabbath, he hoped the House would extend the same principle to railways.
 Mr. Poulter  thought that the inconvenience complained of arose less from the state of the law than from the objectionable constitution of election committees. He did not think that the present Bill would afford a suitable remedy. The result of the present mode of striking election committees was, that eleven men, though otherwise, perhaps, highly accomplished, were sent to decide on questions of a difficult nature—questions on which the Judges of the land might find it difficultt of decide. He despaired of seeing justice done unless they found men of judgment, and of the special knowledge that was requisite to enable them to determine the intricate and difficult questions which were often submitted to them for decision.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, the matter was merely an affair of pounds, shillings, and pence,
 857
 Mr. Borthwick  said, he would vote against the clause, as he did not consider it calculated to promote the object which the hon. Baronet had in view. He begged, however, to disclaim all participation in
 858
 The Attorney-General  thought the House much indebted to the hon. Member for Liskeard for the attempt which he had made to improve this species of tribunal, which stood in need of improvement, for it neither possessed the confidence of the House nor of the country. The practice of whipping for ballots had a bad effect upon the mind of the country. He doubted, however, whether the Bill before the House was calculated to improve the present state of things. With respect to the appointment of the assessors,
 862
 The Attorney-General  opposed the clause. It was unnecessary, inasmuch as the present law of Scotland was sufficient to prevent any desecration of the Sabbath, and not only prohibited the carrying of goods on that day, but travelling also. It was injurious, inasmuch as it extended to the whole of the Sabbath, and might even have the effect of preventing persons who lived at a distance from their place of worship from going there, as such persons might choose to go by the railroad.
 Mr. Williams Wynn,  wished to make a few observations. He doubted very much whether many of the inconveniences at present complained of would not take place under any tribunal, however constituted. He did not think that, under any circumstances, business could be dispatched with the economy of time which had been just now stated. He had entered a committee room recently, and heard one set of witnesses prove that land was only of the value of 17 s. l. s. 863
 Lord John Russell  reported, that the Duke of Richmond, had informed the Commons that the Lords had taken into consideration the resolutions of the House of Commons respecting Canada, and had agreed to them without amendment. He would therefore, move that a Bill be ordered to be brought in founded on these resolutions. Bill ordered to be brought in.
 Mr. L. Charlton  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the matter of the Ludlow Charity Trusts. He
 881
 Mr. Horsman  seconded the motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not rise for the purpose of throwing any obstacle in the way of the motion; at the same time he should be sorry if it went abroad that the object of the present motion was for the purpose of checking any mode of investing capital.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not know whether he might claim the privilege of seconding the motion of his hon. and learned Friend, but he begged to be allowed to do so—never, on any occasion, having enjoyed a more unmixed feeling of gratification than he derived both from the speech of his hon. and learned Friend, and the motion of which it was introductory. And, in passing, he might be allowed to say, that the motion was not inappropriately made by his hon. and learned Friend, to whom the country was under some obligations of a literary character, which would long be remembered. Most fitting was it, that one to whom the country was so indebted, should come forward and claim in behalf of literature, not an act of charity or generosity, but an act of justice. Judging from the mode in which his hon. and
 880
* Mr. Sergeant Talfourd : Mr. Speaker, in venturing to invite the attention of the House to the state of the law affecting the property of men of letters and of artists in the results
 * 867 v. 868 v. 869 v. 870 d. d. 871 primâ facie 872 873 874 875 876 his 877 878 879
 Mr. Gillon  pursuant to notice, called the attention of the House to the legislative policy adopted in reference to internal communication, and especially to
 866 l. l. s. l. l.
 Sir Robert H. Inglis  having, in the course of last Session, intended to bring this subject under the consideration of the House, was unwilling to lose the present opportunity of stating that, instead of regretting that he had not done so, he had every reason to congratulate the House, those interested in our literature, and the country at large, that the task had been undertaken by one who was, in all respects, so highly qualified to render it justice.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the House should adopt the natural hours of doing business. They were the only legislative body which turned the night into day. Although the practice might give the younger orators an opportunity for display, it killed those who exceeded the age of sixty. He had heard it argued that such hours were necessary for the sake of Members connected with commerce. That could only be true of such among them as resided in London, for others were enabled to leave the towns in which they lived and their business too. With regard to members of the bar, he would say that the practice might be beneficial to a few gentlemen in extensive practice, such as the Attorney-General; but the Irish barristers left their business and their country to attend their duties.
 Mr. O'Connell  fully concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member who last addressed the House. He would go to the full length of abolishing the punishment of death in all and every case, not even excepting that of murder. No man, or society of men, had the right to take away life. The experience of the past would justify the Legislature in taking the course now proposed, for public opinion had gone fully with them in all the improvements they had made by a mitigation of the severity of our criminal code. Look at the press at all sides, and in every part of the country, and it was in favour of a still farther extension of clemency in our criminal code. He had only one other remark to make—with reference to what had been said by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home-department, of the conduct of the crowd at the late execution in London. He fully admitted that conduct was bad—nothing could be worse, but was there not to be found some extenuation for it in the horribly brutal conduct of the wretch who was about to suffer, who had got himself into the confidence of an unsuspecting woman, and savagely murdered her for the lucre of gain, and who throughout the whole of his subsequent conduct showed no feeling of remorse, or appeared to have any feeling whatever of religion? He was glad to see a disposition prevailing in this as well as other countries to abolish the punishment of death in all cases. He hoped the feeling would become general throughout society, and that at no distant day the principle would be generally admitted, that no man ought to take the life of another.
 The Attorney General  rejoiced that the public voice went with the Legislature in those ameliorations of the criminal code—by which the punishment of death was about to be taken away from three-fourths of those offences to which it had before been applied. He had no hesitation in giving those measures his support, for he had no apprehension that the abolition of the capital punishment would in any of the cases here mentioned lead to the increase of crime; but he was not at all prepared to do away with the punishment of death in every case. The public mind was not at all prepared for such a change, and
 918
 Dr. Bowring  considered the House bound, in justice and consistency, to reject a clause which had been introduced into this Bill, prohibiting traveling on the Lord's-day.
 Mr. Dunlop  had letters from all quarters of the country in the vicinity of the railway approving of the clause, and it was not fair for hon. Gentlemen to oppose it, simply in order to carry forward a speculative opinion of their own. He had been twitted by the hon. Member for Bath with using pounds-shillings-and-pence arguments on a former occasion, but he had done so, because he considered such arguments would have more weight with that hon. Member, and those with whom he acted, than any others he could have used. But travelling on Sunday was hostile to the feelings of the people of Scotland, and was there any justice or any wisdom in violating the prejudices of a whole people? This rail-road was an undertaking in opposition to all the coaches and other carriages passing in the same direction, and by the old law those carriages were prevented from travelling on Sunday. If, then, the clause was omitted, a great injustice would be done to those persons to whom those carriages belonged; and he therefore hoped, that as the clause had received the approbation of the people of Scotland, and as its omission would be an act of injustice to many, the House would not reject it.
 Lord John Stuart  said, the clause had only been carried in the Committee by a majority of one. He had then opposed it, as he considered its insertion an act of gross injustice, and peculiarly injurious to the poor, and he trusted the House would now reject it altogether.
 Sir Andrew Agnew  had received petitions from the constituents of almost every Member in the House in favour of the principle on which the clause was founded. These petitions expressed a strong feeling on the subject, and the rejection of the clause would alarm the prejudices of the people of Scotland, who were most strongly opposed to travelling on the Lord's-day.
 Mr. Wakley  asked, did the hon. Member for Wigtonshire believe that he could, by an Act of Parliament, make the people more moral? The idea was an insult to the religion which they professed; and the clause could only be considered as levelled against the working classes, who were to be prevented from travelling by means of this great improvement on the former mode of conveyance. The hon. Baronet could not prevent the people from using their feet, and there would be no use in preventing them from travelling by a railroad. Beasts might be tortured in carriages on
 900
 Mr. Finch  said, that if the arguments of the hon. Member for Finsbury were good for anything, they went to establish that there was no necessity for statutes of any kind for the prevention of crime. The hon. Gentleman had said, that the clause was directed against the poor, but its object was to give them one day's rest in seven; and he could assure the House that nothing would more irritate the feelings of the people of Scotland than the omission of the clause.
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that there had been so many appeals on the subject, that it was highly necessary that they should be understood. First, an hon. Member had got up and insinuated that which he knew it would be unparliamentary to state openly. The insinuation of the hon. Member for Ayrshire with respect to his (Mr. Roebuck's) religion, was totally uncalled for. What was the meaning of that insinuation? A man of high feeling, of Christian charity, of common honesty, would not make an insinuation when he dared not make a direct assertion.
 The Speaker  thought the hon. Member must feel that he was using language not quite Parliamentary.
 Mr. Roebuck : I bow to your decision, Sir. The language was too strong for this House; but it was called for by an insinuation that ought not to have been made in it. Those, continued the hon. Member, who opposed this clause in a Railroad Act, were said, by insinuation, not to have a proper reverence for the Christian religion—that was the meaning of the insinuation. Now, he asserted distinctly and broadly, that the Christian religion had nothing whatever to do with the Sabbath. The Sabbath Day was the Saturday kept by the Jewish religionist; and the Sunday, which had no reference to the 4th Commandment, was not contemplated at all by the 4th Commandment. The Sunday was an ordinance that had grown up by mere custom. He held in his hand, and he was determined to push this question to the utmost, a tract written by Archbishop Whateley, who quoted Archbishop Cranmer. He hoped that was authority enough for Gentlemen opposite. Now, what said Archbishop Cranmer:—"Know ye not, good children, that the Jews in the Old Testament were commanded to keep the Sabbath Day, and they observed every seventh day, called the Sabbath, or Saturday; but we Christian
 901 902 903
 Mr. Labouchere  hoped the House would not suffer itself to be drawn into a theological discussion, as if there was one place more unfit than another for such a discussion, that place was a popular assembly. Although there had hitherto been nothing said by hon. Gentlemen on either side calculated to give personal offence, he, nevertheless, thought it was desirable that the matter should not proceed further. If he should see any Bill brought in, having for its object the prevention of compulsory labour on the Sabbath by those who conscientiously objected to work on that day, he was prepared to say he would not offer any opposition to it; but, as he considered that the tendency of the clause under the consideration of the House would be to alienate the respect of the people of Scotland from their English neighbours, he felt himself bound to vote against its insertion in the Bill.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that although many persons professing the Christian religion differed in opinion with regard to the divine obligation of keeping holy one day in seven, yet he believed the most lax theologians were agreed in allowing those to observe it who chose to do so. The arguments made use of by the hon. and learned Member for Bath ought to induce him to bring forward some measure, not only for the repeal of the Act of Charles 2nd, but all other laws which had been enacted upon the subject.
 Colonel Thompson  would recant everything he had ever said upon the question, if hon. Gentlemen opposite would produce a shadow of authority or precedent from the book in which they professed to refer as a rule. He happened to be able to enumerate all the instances in which the subject was at all mentioned; or if he was wrong, he was open to correction. It was commemorated that Paul preached on the first day of the week, and that the disciples broke bread. Was there the slightest evidence of a wish to hinder any man from doing the like? It was stated that on the first day of the week the early Christians made a collection for charitable purposes. Was there any thing in the omission of the clause, to interfere with the power of doing
 904
 Lord John Russell  thought the House was going beyond its usual line in
 905
 The Attorney-General  said, the clause amounted to an absolute prohibition of travelling at any hour on Sunday in Scotland; and although he disapproved of many of the arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Bath, he felt the clause to be most unnecessary.
 Dr. Lushington  hailed with great satis-
 920
 Colonel Thompson  said, that while the hon. Member for Waterford city was speaking, he had gone aside to consult a pocket Bible, which, like the hon. Member for Bath, he had brought in his pocket in consideration of the turn to biblical criticism the debates of the evening were likely to take, and moved moreover by the circumstance that the book did not make part of the works of reference contained in the library of the House—with a view, if he could have caught the Speaker's eye, to have corroborated that hon. Member's opinion of the extreme danger of taking the Mosaic law as the measure of what was necessarily to be punished with death in civilised nations. While looking for certain passages which he had in his recollection, his eye had glanced over other enactments of that code, which would answer his purpose as well. He found it written, that whoever ate "all manner of fat," of ox, or of sheep, or of goat, that soul should be cut off from his people. And whoever ate "all manner of blood," that soul should be cut off from his people. Under these circumstances, he would leave it to the House to say how far the assignment of capital punishment by the Mosaic code was authority which modern legislators must necessarily follow. There was a question on another subject quite distinct, which he would ask in hope that it would be taken up by others, either now or at some other time. Was there an intention in any quarter, to do away with the punishment of death for political offences? Many in
 922
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to having the punishment of death remitted in cases where any attempt was made to set fire to any of his Majesty's dockyards or arsenals. First, because a great loss of life might occur; and, next, because the public interests might suffer most materially by such attempts.
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to it, on the ground of its freeing persons found guilty of setting fire to dockyards, arsenals, and military stores, from convictions which would render them liable to capital punishments.
 Lord John Russell  said, that a Committee on the subject had been appointed last year, by the Lords, which, after minute inquiries had come to certain resolutions, which were afterwards communicated to the magistrates of Quarter Sessions. They were recommended for temporary application, and were found to work well, and it would be desirable to wait, and see what improvement they were calculated to effect, in the system of prison discipline. As far as the experiment bad been made, it proved successful. There were complaints that some of the prisons were overloaded with military cases, but, on inquiry, it was found, that sufficient accommodation could be made for such cases in the barracks. The reports hitherto received from the magistrates were highly satisfactory; and, this being the case, it was better that Government should cooperate with the efforts which proved so successful than to endeavour to enforce any particular rules. With respect to the observations of the right hon. Baronet respecting recent circumstances relative to criminals under sentence of death, he fully concurred in them. He admitted, that some revolting spectacles had been exhibited, but he hoped that after what had occurred, means would be taken to prevent a repetition of them.
 Lord John Russell  was very unwilling to enter upon this discussion, because both the hon. Member for Liverpool who moved,
 912 913 914
 Lord J. Russell  apprehended that the course proposed by the hon. Member would be a very inconvenient one for the House to adopt. He thought it most desirable for the House, both as a deliberative assembly, and more especially as an assembly representing the people, that when a bill was once introduced, particularly if a bill of any importance, time should be allowed for its becoming generally known to the country before it was carried through its later stages. Important modifications and changes were made in almost every Bill from the information derived from bodies of the people, or from individuals, after the circulation of the bill. It might be very desirable for the House, immediately after deciding on the principle of a bill, to go into Committee upon it, but it would be highly objectionable for the House, after the bill had gone through a Committee, to proceed at once to the third reading. It was essential that some time should elapse after a committee on a bill and the receiving of the report, in order that the country might be aware of the alterations made in it in committee.
 Mr. Grote  thought that if the punish-
 924
 Mr. Robinson  did not concur in the remark that the Legislature was in advance of public opinion, for public opinion went fully with the Legislature in all that it had done to ameliorate the criminal code. He thought it quite in consonance with the spirit of the Christian religion that the punishment of death should be abolished in all cases; indeed, the principle seemed to be admitted on all hands, and the only difference was as to the question of time, but he had heard no valid reason to show why the abolition of capital punishment might not be made with perfect safety at the present day.
 Dr. Bowring  wished to have the punishment of death abolished in all cases: far he was convinced that the spectacle of an execution depraved the mind more than it deterred from the commission of crime. There were parts of Italy in which the punishment of death was very rarely inflicted, and other parts in which it was frequently and rigorously exacted. Tuscany, where death was seldom inflicted, had purer morals and a more virtuous population than any other portion of Italy. He looked upon the desire for severe punishments as nothing else than a desire for vengeance, and the most humane laws were those which were the most efficient for the prevention of crime. Holland was the first country which tried the experiment of diminishing the punishment of forgery. The experiment had been in every way successful in that country, and the success of a similar experiment in England ought to encourage them to proceed further in the path on which they had entered under such excellent auspices.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, that whichever way they looked at the question, it was one of difficulty; but if the motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Ewart) were pressed to a division, he most vote for it. He fully concurred with
 919
 Mr. Roebuck  wished to guard himself from erroneous impressions in the support which he was about to give to the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Liverpool. The exception which it contained justified, or appeared to justify, the infliction of capital punishment in cases of murder. To that part of the amendment he could not agree. The prevention of the offence, not the torture of the offender, was the object of punishment. Now, the prevention of crime was only to be attained in three ways. First, you might instruct your people so as to induce them not to commit crime. Secondly, you might have a police so regulated as to prevent them from committing it. And thirdly, you might have punishments to repress it when it had been committed. He hoped, nay, he was sure, that the noble Lord thought that there was something beyond the mere punishment of the criminal. In order to prevent the people from committing crime,
 917
 Mr. Roebuck  hoped the noble Lord would slate how he intended for the future to carry on the Government business. Would it not be much the better way to take one bill and go through with it.
 Mr. Brotherton  considered the punishment of death not only contrary to sound policy but opposed to the principles of true religion and right reason. By the divine law no human tribunal was, in his opinion justified in taking away the life of a man for any crime whatsoever, and he could, if it were necessary, adduce reasons to justify the view which he took on this
 916
 Mr. Hume  seconded the amendment, and observed, that the executions which had recently taken place in the metropolis and in Glocester had a tendency to entice individuals to the commission of crime rather than to deter them from it. He was inclined to go further than his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool was inclined to go on this subject. He had come to the conclusion that the law ought not to execute anybody. In a visit which he had made to the prison of Ghent he had seen 980 individuals all sentenced to capital punishment, but all under going a commuted punishment; and he had been informed by the governor of the prison, who was an old military officer, that he had found that the diminution of the number of capital punishments in Belgium had mitigated the ferocity and diminished the amount of crime in that country.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  in reply to the right hon. Member for Tamworth, would only say, that the discretion proposed to be vested in the judges was not greater than that which they previously possessed.
 Mr. Fowel Buxton  returned his sincere thanks to the noble Lord and to his Majesty's Government for what they had done towards mitigating the severity of our criminal code. The House was then assembled for the purpose of discussing this question, whether, the last remnant of the sanguinary code of this country regarding the crime of forgery should be abolished altogether. In the whole course of the noble Lord's speech he had not observed a single argument in support of the necessity of inflicting capital punishment in those cases where murder had not been committed. He was sure that the House, or, if not the House, his hon. and learned Friend near him, the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Dr. Lushington), would recollect the time when it was held that none but a visionary or an enthusiast could suppose that the security of property would be increased by mitigating the punishment inflicted on those who violated the law respecting it. That doctrine once held so wild and fantastical, was now proved to be accurate and sound by practical demonstration. He was not afraid of any revulsion of public feeling incase the law was still further mitigated. Two experiments re-
 915
 Mr. Wyse  said, the whole question to be decided was, whether the punishment of death for murder was efficient in preventing the commission of the crime by others? The experience of all countries where the experiment had been tried had shown, that where the laws were most severe and sanguinary, there crime most prevailed. The only effective mode of preventing crime would be to educate the people so as to lessen the disposition to commit crime. There were many punishments more severe than that of death, and where a more severe substitute could be supplied the capital punishment would not be justified.
 Mr. Ewart  said, that he had given notice of a motion for the purpose of extending a mitigation of capital punishment to all cases less than the crime of murder. Having been one of those who during a series of years had taken a deep interest in all that concerned the national character and the national habits, he had paid much attention to this subject. In the present state of society the punishment of death might be abolished altogether. He was sorry to say, however, that the law of this country had long been in a barbarous state with reference to capital punishments. In other countries there was less capital punishment than here. In France and Prussia, where the united inhabitants amounted to 50,000,000, in the year 1834 there were but seventeen executions, whereas in the same year in England and Wales, with a population of only 15,000,000, there had been thirty-four executions. The effect of the rarity of executions was not injurious. Crimes had diminished with the decrease of executions. The returns from France for the last five, as compared with the five preceding years, showed a diminution of persons committed for trial in the proportion of three to two. In Belgium, for the years ending with 1829, the executions had been seventeen and the trials for capital offences forty-five, but since that period a great dislike had been manifested by the people of that country against the frequency of capital punishment, and for the four years ending 1834, the returns were, executions none, trials forty-one, which so far from an increase, showed a positive decrease of crime. He need not call the attention of the House to the many cases in which capital punishment had been abolished in our own country since 1829. He was glad that we had now no more of the detestable exhibitions of hanging in chains, and that we looked more to refining the habits of the people. But he would ask whether society was less secure now than it was before 1829? We had been told, indeed, that, some few crimes had increased, and among them that of stealing sheep. But the amount of crime on the whole since 1829 was on the decrease. There had been a slight decrease in the last year only, but on looking back to a period of years we found a diminished amount, and since 1833 the
 909 910 911
 Mr. Ewart , in explanation, wished to state that he had not expressed himself in favour of a total abolition of the punishment of death. He also desired to declare that he had not entertained the slightest intention of reflecting on the Government for their conduct respecting the subject before the House, but had given them credit for having done much good as far as they had gone.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  was in favour of the motion. The state of one part of Ireland in 1831 was a proof that mild measures might be productive of excellent results. Outrages were then commonly committed which were punishable with death. The capital punishment was not insisted on, and in a month the district became tranquil.
 Sir C. Burrell  was of opinion that private executions would be found a most dangerous expedient, as it might give rise to a belief that murders were committed under such a system.
 The Attorney-General  said, that there was considerable difficulty in the point, and the matter had been already considered in some measure by the Government.
 Sir Robert Inglis  should feel ashamed if he did not declare his reasons for objecting to the motion. This was no party question, and it never would be legislated on, he hoped, under any feeling of political bias. The House well knew that there was not the slightest chance, supposing that the instruction was carried, that the Bill could pass if framed in conformity with its principle. He certainly thought that those hon. Members who appeared so anxious that the instruction should be carried were purchasing at a cheap rate a character for humanity in the country, and that they were endeavouring at the same time to throw on the Government the odium of offering resistance to the motion. As to the arguments which might be ad-
 921
 Sir Robert Peel  admitted, that the recent execution was a most disgusting exhibition, and that such spectacles seldom produced any salutary effects, but still he thought it would be a most dangerous principle to permit executions to take place in private. There was one matter connected with the present system which he conceived extremely reprehensible, that of admitting persons to visit prisoners under sentence of death. He did not mean to say that persons whose object was to obtain information which might be useful to the Secretary of State, or those whom the prisoner might desire to see, should be refused admittance to him, but he thought that persons whose object was mere curiosity should not be permitted to visit a prisoner under such circumstances. When persons of distinction visited convicts under sentence for a serious crime it invested the culprit with the character of a hero. The publication of the details of conversations held on those occasions, with the history of the past life of the convict, was calculated to excite sympathy for his situation, and to raise him in the eyes of the vulgar. If, therefore, persons who had the management and control of prisons had not the good sense or discretion to prevent the growth of such practices the law ought to interpose to put a stop to them. If it were intended to rely on transportation and imprisonment as the principal means for repressing crime, it would be satisfactory to have some precise information as to the effects produced on the conduct and habits of criminals by the duration of those punishments; and he also thought the Judges should be empowered to add to the sentence of imprisonment, solitary confinement in cases where it might be deemed necessary. As regarded the police generally, it was admitted, on all hands, that it was very effective. With respect to a rural police, if the hon. Gentleman who spoke of it (Mr. Hawes) had any proposition to make he had better propose it to the House in the shape of a Bill. It was, however, a
 925
 Sir Robert Peel , in explanation, did not mean to say that a wider discretion was vested in the Judges. His object was, to enable the Judges to exercise any discre-
 926
 The Solicitor-General  believed, that the time might come when the visions of the hon. Members who would abolish the punishment of death in every case might be realised with safety to the community, but certainly the present times were not those in which such a change should be made. If at once they rushed into so complete an alteration in the criminal code they might do much mischief, which would be aggravated by the difficulty of retracing their steps. His noble Friend (Lord John Russell), and those who supported him on the occasion, had been placed in rather an invidious position by the course the discussion had taken; for any one who had heard that discussion would have imagined that his noble Friend had proposed some measures of additional severity, which it was the object of other Members to resist. Now, the very reverse was the case—in one respect at least. His noble Friend's proposition was this—that whereas capital punishment might now be legally applied to thirty-seven offences, it was expedient to remove that punishment in two-thirds of the cases. The hon. Member for Liverpool would take away the capital punishment from all crimes but one, but some of those who concurred with him so far would take it even from that one. He did hope that from the increasing education and intelligence of the community, death would be inflicted only in extreme cases; but he did not think it would be expedient or safe at present to remove that punishment in all cases.
 Mr. A. Johnstone  was sorry he could not support the resolutions of his Majesty's Government, and that the task devolved on him of moving an amendment; he regretted it because he was a supporter of the general principles of that party to which the noble Lord belonged. The proposed fund was to be raised from an improved system of revenue. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman as to the creation of the fund, though he might differ from him in some important points of the proposed plan, for he would have the fund created without inflicting injury on any one; but he was compelled to differ from his Majesty's Ministers with regard to the mode of application. He did not anticipate that the fund would equal, by a considerable amount, the sum calculated by his right hon. Friend: but whatever the amount, instead of having it employed for the abolition of Church-rates, he would appropriate it in the way suggested in his amendment. He called on the noble Lord and on the Government, to support his amendment, if they were as friendly as they declared themselves to the principle of an Established Church. The noble Lord had in two speeches last Session professed himself a supporter of that principle, and had admitted that the church was in some respects inadequately provided for. The House had been called upon to support the Government measure because the Dissenters had declared themselves unwilling any longer to pay Church-rates. No man was more willing than he was to give due weight to the religious scruples of his dissenting fellow subjects, but he could not see how a Church Establishment was to
 930 l. l. 931 'The most prominent, however, of those defects, which cripple the energies of the established church, and circumscribe its usefulness, is the want of churches, and ministers in the large towns and populous districts of the kingdom. The growth of the population has been so rapid as to outrun the means possessed by the establishment of meeting its spiritual wants; and the result has been, that a vast proportion of the people are left destitute of the opportunities of public worship and Christian instruction even when every allowance is made for the exertions of those religious bodies which are not in connexion with the Established Church. "But a comparison between the amount of population and that of church-room will not furnish, by itself, an accurate view of the provision which is made for the spiritual wants of the people; because many of the chapels which contribute to swell the amount of church-room, have no particular districts assigned to them; and we consider the assignment of a district to each church or chapel to be necessary to the ends of pastoral instruction, and to carrying into full effect the parochial economy of the established Church. The evils which flow from this deficiency in the means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence greatly outweigh all other inconveniences resulting from any defects or anomalies in our ecclesiastical institutions; and it unfortunately happens that while these evils are the most urgent of all, and most require the application of an effectual remedy, they are precisely those for which a remedy can be least easily found. The resources which the Established Church possesses, and which can properly be made available to that purpose, in whatever way
 932
 Mr. A. Johnstone  in explanation, wished to say that, in the observations which he had made respecting the Methodists, he had not spoken on mere report. A gentleman had said to him, "I have heard, that from Gravesend and from some other places petitions have been sent up by the Wesleyans praying for the abolition of Church-rates; but I have authority to state, that those petitions had not the sanction of those meetings which are considered to represent the societies of Wesleyan Methodists in those places."
 Mr. Barnes  wished to say a few words in reference to a petition which had been presented by him a year or two ago on the separation of the union between church and State. That it was passed at a meeting at which he had had the honour of presiding; but upon that occasion the Chairman and his friends were outvoted. In fact it was not the petition of Dissenters, but of Radicals.
 Mr. Baines  rose principally to ask the hon. Member who had moved the amendment, on what authority he rested the assertion that the Dissenters were determined upon effecting a separation between Church and State? He was sure that the hon. Member had not sufficient authority for such an assertion, and therefore, in attempting to prejudice the case of the Dissenters, and place them before the Parliament of the country in an unfavourable point of view, the hon. Member, unwittingly as he believed, but improperly as he contended, was making a charge against the Dissenters which had no foundation in fact. He did not mean to say, that there were not Dissenters who would take measures to effect that separation; but some months back he was present at a meeting of 700 deputies from different parts of the kingdom, representing the Dissenters in as efficient a manner as could be conceived, when this very proposition was brought forward by a Dissenter, and was met by a general disclaimer on the part of the meeting of any attempt to interfere with the connexion between Church and State. He declared, as far as was within his knowledge, that there was no such intention on the part of the Dissenters. That they were not friends to the Establishment, their being Dissenters was evidence, but knowing as they did, the combination of circumstances under which the Church and the State held together, he believed there was no wish on the part of the Dissenters of England to effect any separation between them. There was another inquiry arising out of the observations of the hon. Member for St. Andrew's which he should refer to. The hon. Member said—"Will this be the healing measure?" and applied to the hon. Member for Boston, and to himself, to know whether it would in their opinion prove so. Now, his answer was, that it would be a healing measure; and
 933 934
 Mr. Lambton  thought, that hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the question had used exaggerated phrases in speaking of the Bill. He should not, he trusted, fall into the same error. In his opinion, if the ablest divines in Durham were examined before a Committee of the House on the question they would declare that the truth would be found between the statements of both parties. The lessees were strong in their rights, founded on the enactments of Elizabeth, and the statutes of 1649; and though they said that they had no legal right to renewal, still time and custom had sanctioned their claims. The tendency of the measure would be found dangerous in those cases where the lessees were concerned, for their property had always been, and was at present, the object of transfer, of mortgage, and of family settlement. He would not deny that a depreciation in Church property had taken place, and that evils arose from the management of business being left to the bishops' agents. These circumstances, however, bore but indirectly on the question. When the measure was last debated, it was asserted, and the statement was received with cheers, that the Dean and Chapter of Durham had disfranchised their property in the same manner as was proposed to be done at present. Now, the facts were decidedly the contrary. The Dean and Chapter did make the attempt, but they failed. They were obliged to be content with only one-fifth of what they aimed at, situated on the banks of the river. In the county of Durham it was well known that there was a description of property called Church leasehold house property, which, as he could prove by documentary evidence, would not sell for more than ten years' purchase. The schedule, therefore, of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as regarded this description of property had been founded on erroneous data, There was also property called
 948 949
 Mr. Horace Twiss  wished to bring the House back to the main question which formed the subject of discussion, namely, the situation in which the Church of England was placed by the measure of Ministers, and the false position in which the Ministers themselves stood in reference to that question; and whether he considered the nature of the measure itself, or the alliance through which it was sought to be carried into effect, he could not but regard it as fraught with danger to the interests of their national Church. The plan of Lord Althorp, notwithstanding its defects, contained at least one useful and salutary ingredient, which had for its object the prevention of those contentions which took place at vestry meetings. But even this would not content any but the moderate portion of the Dissenters. It would not answer the purpose of the agitators, who
 950 v. mandamus mandamus, 951 v. 952 v. a fortiori v. 953 l. 954 Patriot l. l. l. l. l. l. 955 956 957 s. l. 958 959
 Mr. Hardy  expressed his entire concurrence in what his hon. Friend (Mr. A. Johnstone) had said on the wish of the Dissenters, to separate the church from the state. He had, on a former occasion, asked the hon. Member for Leeds what was meant by the union formed among the Dissenters unless it were the separation of Church and State. At the time he received no reply; but his question was subsequently answered by a newspaper (the  Leeds Mercury 935 "At a meeting for conference between the united committee appointed to obtain the redress of the grievances of Dissenters, and deputies from various parts of the country, summoned specially for the purpose, held at the City of London Tavern, on Thursday, May 8th, 1834, Edward Baines, Esq. M.P. in the chair. "Moved by the Rev. John Angell James, of Birmingham; seconded by Colonel Addison, of Chilton Hall, near Sudbury; supported by Thomas Harbottle, Esq. of Manchester, and the Rev. Joseph Gilbert, of Nottingham; and "Resolved—That this Meeting recognises the great and leading principle of full and complete separation of Church and State, as the true basis on which equal rights and justice can be secured to all classes of his Majesty's subjects." 936 "As the objection to Church-rates is founded mainly on their unjust principle no measure will be in the least satisfactory which does not entirely, in substance as well as in form, remove the burthen from the Dissenters." d. d. 937 938 Regium Donum 939 "They cannot bring themselves to fear that a grant which has been generously made, and faithfully administered, and which has proved itself, under the Divine blessing, an occasion of joy and gratitude to hundreds of Christian teachers, whose earthly lot has been one continued scene of privation and hardship, will, under any pretence, be withheld; but should this be the unhappy result of the interference of certain Dissenters, they must ever lament the injury thus done to a numerous class of indigent ministers of the Gospel—the blow being the more felt, because inflicted by the hand that should have been extended for protection; and will fervently pray that He whose Providence is over all, and is especially engaged towards them that devote their lives towards His glory, may open other sources for the relief of these His servants, not indeed more pure, but better guarded against the fluctuation and even caprice of public opinion."
 Mr. Hume  said, that it ought not to be forgotten what the real business before them was. After two months' consideration of the plan of the Government respecting Church-rates, they had now met to decide whether they should carry that plan into effect or not. There were two evils admitted: one was the payment of Church-rates by individuals not in connexion with the Church of England; the other, the want of church-room and accommodation to those who were not provided with religious instruction. He did not think that the hon. Member (Mr. A. Johnstone) ought to have brought forward his proposition regarding the latter of these questions until the first had been disposed of. He would, therefore, intreat the hon. Member to withdraw his motion. It was quite clear, that hon. Members at the other side of the House would not support him; and he might expect very little support from Members at his own side of the House. The question of Church accommodation was not that which they had met to consider, and by persevering with his amendment, the hon. Member would only interfere with the main question before them. The Ecclesiastical Commissioners had certainly admitted the deficiency of Church accommodation, but it was doubtful, if that accommodation were provided, whether it Would be occupied by churchmen. The question they had to deal with at present, was not how they should apply the surplus, but by what means they could most effectually raise it. He would beg of the hon. Member to withdraw his motion, and let him fix a day when the House could come to a full decision upon it, and when hon. Members might have the opportunity of expressing their opinions fully and fairly respecting it. It had been said, that the Dissenters entertained a desire for the separation of the Church and State. He had attended many of their meetings, and he found that such an opinion was scouted by them; but he knew, that amongt them was entertained a strong and decided opinion for
 941 d. d. d.
 Mr. Borthwick  differed widely from the hon. Member for Middlesex. The question they had to deal with was, not whether the revenues which the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought he could create could be created or not, but the question was whether, supposing those revenues created, they ought to be applied to given purposes or not? It had been stated, by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that within the limits of what he called the national Church, there existed certain property which ought to be applied to the relief of a certain portion of his Majesty's subjects, who prayed to be relieved from contributing to the support of the Established Church. Now, it had been argued by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. A. Johnstone) that whatever property existed within the national Church, that ought to be exclusively devoted to the purposes of religious instruction, for which purpose alone the national Church had been endowed, and ought to be supported. He had the honour of laying on the table several petitions from different parts of the country, and they had all concurred in one prayer, for the maintenance of Church-rates, and a strong expression of dissatisfaction at the conduct of his Majesty's Ministers. At the opening of the present Session, his Majesty, in his Speech from the Throne, had directed the attention of Parliament to measures for the consolidation of the Established Church. That desire had not been complied with, but the directly opposite course had been adopted by his Majesty's Ministers in the measure
 942 943 "Oh, 'tis excellent To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous To use it like a giant." "Could great men thunder As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet; For every pelting petty officer Would use his Heaven for thunder: nothing but thunder— Merciful Heaven! Thou rather, with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt, Split'st the unwed gable and gnarled oak Than the soft myrtle. Oh, but man, proud man! Drest in a little brief authority— Most ignorant of what he's most assured— His glassy essence—like an angry ape Plays such fantastic tricks before high Heaven As make the angels weep." 944 945 946 "Te veniente die, te decedente canebant." 947
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the report of the Committee on the Church-rates regulation. On the motion that the resolutions be read a second time,
 Mr. Sheil  was understood to say, that the hon. Baronet would have done better to have maintained a judicious silence—such a silence as he had long observed. He would abstain from speaking of the enlightened language of the hon. Baronet, who talked of the hon. Member for Leeds having "the whole of the Dissenters in his belly." The hon. Baronet, too had alluded to another House in glowing terms—in terms which were better adapted, perhaps, for that House than the House of Commons. The hon. Member had referred to his Majesty's Ministers, of whom he had spoken in language of respect, and yet he was astonished he had not called them his noble and right hon. Friends. But he said, that the Ministry were weak. He had given them to understand that the man who led that House was weak—that he who carried the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts was weak—that that man was weak who introduced the Reform of Parliament Bill into the House of Commons—he said that that man was weak who, under even the Melbourne Administration, carried the English Municipal Corporation Bill—the hon. Baronet spoke of him with compassion! He believed that sentiment had its origin in sympathy. He looked upon the hon. Baronet as a noble relic of a temple dedicated to freedom, though ill-omened birds built their nests and found shelter in that once noble edifice. Although the hon. Baronet was now allied with the men who were the antagonists of Reform in every shape—although he was allied with the party which was headed by the chief constable of the Tower—although the hon. Baronet was allied with the party (he did not intend to speak in offensive language when he said so) which was in power when the misdeeds—for there was no use in employing a partial phrase—when the misdeeds of Manchester were rife—still it was due to the hon. Baronet—[Cry of "Ques-
 969 Cheers 970 971 "With regard to the Church of Ireland, I am one of those who do not believe Church property to be so mischievous to a country as many persons imagine; but neither, on the other hand, do I consider it so sacred, or to stand on the same footing, or to be hedged found by the same protections, as private property. The property of the Church is, pay given for a public service, and it requires that the service should be performed. One portion of it was given for pious uses; and as to the donors, who were, according to some Gentlemen, to have their gifts set aside by any alteration of Church property, I will ask to what Church did they give this property? Certainly not to the Church which now holds it, but to another, from which it was taken by the State and transferred to this. As to the arguments, therefore, which have been addressed to the interests of the landed gentlemen, telling them to beware of shaking their own property by suffering that of the Church to be touched, I trust, Sir, that the landed Gentlemen of this House have too much good sense to adopt any fear of the kind, and too much manliness not to treat such opinions with contempt. If it can be shown that the property of the Established Church in Ireland is so distributed as to be a great evil—if it can be shown that by altering the distribution We shall largely promote the interests and happiness of all the people, that we shall benefit the public—if it can be shown that this property is an enormous grievance, will it not be absurd to say—" 972 Hon. Member: "Will it not be absurd to say, that it is not to be touched—that Parliament cannot alter the destination of the property of the Church—when it is shown that this destination is an alarming evil, and that the alteration would be productive of great public good?" * * 973 "With regard to the Church of Ireland, the single question is, does that Church do good or evil? Is Protestant ascendancy—for that is what is meant by preserving the Church—of so much benefit that it must, at all hazards be preserved, or is it not a curse to the people of Ireland? Even if it can be proved that the Protestant ascendancy is not an evil, it does not follow that the Church should be protected in all its wealth. But if that ascendancy is the cause why all classes have not equal rights—if it prevents the Government from doing justice to all its subjects—if it exposes the majority to the tyranny of a small number, and will not allow the nation to be governed by any other principle than terror, then, Sir, I cannot consider the Protestant ascendancy as so necessary to be preserved; or that it is not of more harm than good." * Francis Burdett: Francis Burdett: Francis Burdett: * 974 "He thought he saw for the first time a glimpse of hope of removing what had been so long rankling in the minds of the Irish people, and of making that union, so important in other respects, a source of strength and happiness to both countries. This object appeared to be of such magnitude, that all other subjects and details shrunk into utter insignificance. He was prepared to make as great a sacrifice in a spirit of justice or of generosity as any Irish Member, for he felt it was both politic and wise in this country to carry this object into complete effect. He felt strongly upon this subject, for from an early period of life he had been deeply, though, perhaps, not prudently, implicated in it; but it was a subject which was calculated to drive a wise man mad. But he admitted that he felt then not as an Englishman, except as desiring to promote the good of his fellow subjects. He rejoiced at the feeling tone which had been employed, as this was a subject which bad kept Ireland in a ferment at all times, as the great grievance of a large proportion of the population of Ireland, and if arranged at an early period, all heart-burnings and discontent would have been prevented." * * 975 976
 Sir Francis Burdett  observed, that it might appear a little presumptuous in him to differ in opinion from a great and able lawyer, holding office under the Government, on the subject of law. Yet as he recollected that common sense was the foundation of common law, and common
 962 963 l. 964 "While we join in the general expression of thanks offered by the country to the Ministry, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, let us not be understood as for a moment saying that the Dissenters, in the event of this measure passing, will have received a boon at their hands." 965 "One portion of the Church bonds are removed; but let no one confound the question of Church-rates with the Church question. The Church question has not yet been mooted." "But we give notice to the Churchmen that, as far as we are concerned, we shall not the less earnestly seek for the separation of the Church from the state than we did already for the abolition of the church-rates." "We are quite aware that the question is already before the public; but it is neither the abolition of church-rates nor the expulsion of the bishops from the Parliamentary Peerage that will satisfy us. We will make the Church of England what she in reality is—one of the sects of the country." 966 967 "There are, born in the Samian school, who think This pastime scarce humane; But in my mind and not ungentle eye, His life is pure that knows no fouler stain." 968
 Sir Robert Inglis  alluded to the personal remarks which Mr. Sheil had made upon the conduct of Sir Francis Burdett, whose constitutional language that night had done him high honour, had recently been subjected to a trial, and by that trial had been honourably acquitted; and had it not been for that trial and that honourable acquittal he believed the House would not have been indulged with the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary. For, with the exception of the last five minutes of his speech, not one word had the hon. and learned Gentleman said which had reference to the question before the House. All his observations had been confined to the conduct of the hon. Baronet the member for Westminster. He (Sir Robert Inglis) would not interrupt the progress of the debate by answering or attempting to answer the question which the hon. and learned Gentleman had put to
 977 978 pro tanto,
 The Solicitor-General  said, that if the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down had a right to complain, as he had complained in the commencement of his address, that the real question at issue had been departed from by hon. Members who had preceded him, how much more reason had he to make a similar complaint, after the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman and his elaborate peroration, more worthy of a Roman Catholic bishop in the French Convention, at the period of the revolution than of a Member of the British House of Commons? The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, that with regard to the present question, his Majesty's Government occupied a very false position; that with language in their mouths, breathing love and affection for the Church, they had nevertheless a constant leaning towards the voluntary principle, and that this they had manifested by every sentiment they had expressed, and every measure they had introduced. In order to bear out those assertions his hon. Friend had had recourse to statements contained in papers, he (the Solicitor-General) knew not whence they came; and from petitions for the language in which his learned Friend was the first to admit no one in that House could be responsible, and which to use his own expression, were couched in rhetorical flourishes. What was the sole foundation of his hon. and learned Friend's argument? His hon. and learned Friend seemed to think the measure under the consideration of the House, whether good or bad, was an approach to what he called the voluntary principle. Now, by a Church Establishment he (the Solicitor-General) understood a Church which the poor man might visit without charge, which
 960 961
 Mr. H. Fitzroy  was extremely unwilling to trespass upon the indulgence of the House, but in justice to the constituency which had recently done him the honour to send him there to represent their sentiments, he could not remain silent upon the present occasion. It had been asserted that the Protestant Dissenters of this kingdom were decidedly opposed to the continuance of Church-rates, but he was bound to dispute the accuracy of that statement, and that he had good ground for so doing might be collected from the fact that he was himself lately returned by a constituency comprising a very large body of Dissenters of every persuasion. When, therefore, he stated, as he was authorised to do, that there was no tax, no burthen imposed upon his constituents for the support of the Established Church which they would not willingly pay, as they looked upon an establishment as the surest safeguard for religious liberty, he had a warrant for doubting the hostility of the Dissenters to Church-rates. He felt that he should be taking too much upon himself were he to assert that this feeling prevailed among any other constituency than that which he had the high honour to represent, but he must say that it did not appear to him that there was any great zeal manifested in favour of the measure. If the Dissenters looked to the plan about to be introduced as a healing measure—if they regarded it as a boon, and looked forward to it as a cure for all the evils to which they considered themselves subjected, how was it that the table of the House was not groaning under the weight of petitions? He asked this question with more earnestness because of the cheers with which a petition numerously signed in favour of the abolition of Church-rates had been received by the hon. Members opposite. If, as he had often heard it contended, the petitions which came to that House spoke the sense of the people, and showed how they were inclined with respect to the re-
 984
 Mr. A. Johnstone , after the explanation of the right hon. Baronet opposite, would not interfere with the House coming at once to a direct vote on this question. He begged, therefore, with the permission of the House, to withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  representing, as he did, a constituency in which there were a great number of Dissenters, felt it his imperative duty to state the grounds of his objection to the present measure. He was glad that he followed the hon. Member for Liskeard, because he had divested the question of the mystery in which it appeared to be enveloped; and if he had understood the horn Gentleman's speech rightly, he had avowed himself a plain, and undisguised enemy of the Church Establishment. Was he not an undisguised enemy when he said of the Church it should take its hands out of other people's pockets? This was the language of the hon. Gentleman, and no one could infer from it that he at least was friendly to the Church. He could not support the amendment of the hon. Member for St. Andrew's although on one point he fully agreed with him, namely, that the means of religious instruction should be increased. He, however, doubted many of the facts stated by the hon. Member for Liskeard, and more particularly his statement with regard to the condition of the Churches in the City of London. His hon. Friend well knew that during a season of the year, when every one whose business did not compel them to remain in town, the Churches at the west-end might be thinly attended; but on the other hand, if he had ever visited the Churches in the City he would have found these places of worship, even at that season very fully attended. He had often been been astonished at witnessing the crowds
 1014 "Notes of Sermons.—XXXII.—On Candoun and Liberality, as evidence in promoting the Erection of Places of worship. (The last Sermon but one, preached at Bristol, 27th of February, 1831.) * * * * 1015 Morning Chronicle Chronicle, 1016 1017 1018 l. l. l. "Till the Legislature will exert itself, by adopting some effective measures for the more extensive accommodation of the people in parochial churches, no enlightened friend of religion will complain of the supply of this deficiency by the exertion of persons out of the pale of the Establishment. It is above all things, necessary to the welfare of the State, to the salvation of souls, and the glory of God, that public worship should be supported and upheld, in what edifices, or with what forms—providing heresy and idolatry are excluded—is a consideration of inferior moment, We do not differ from our brethren in the Establishment in essentials; we are not of two distinct religions; while we have conscientious objections to some things enjoined in their public service we profess the same doctrines which they profess; we worship the same God; we look for salvation through the blood of the same Mediator; we implore the agency of the same blessed Spirit, by whom we all have access to the Father; we have the same rule of life; and maintain, equally with them, the necessity of that 'holiness, without which none shall see the Lord.'"
 Lord John Russell  hoped, that after the explanation that had been given by the right hon. Gentleman of the manner in
 1065 1066 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1067 l. l. 1068 1069 Hansard. Hansard! Hansard laudatores temporis acti, Hansard, The Mirror of Parliament, 1070 1071 Hansard; Stanley: 1072 1073
 Mr. C. Buller  said, the hon. Member who had last addressed the House but one had advanced two novel arguments against the measure of his Majesty's Ministers. The first was his own appearance in this House, the Other was the preponderance of petitions and signatures against the measure over those in its favour. I would advise the hon. Member, however, not to rely upon the latter argument until he had made some further inquiries, for the fact is, that from a careful examination he was prepared to say that the preponderance of petitions and signatures is in favour of the abolition of Church-rates. The hon. Gentleman had better rely upon the other extraordinary fact—namely, his own presence in the House. But to the subject before the House it seems to me to become a peculiarly hard fate that whatever pains may be taken to narrow any question before the House, so as to enable us to discuss particular issues on different occasions, it always turns out to be practically impossible to limit the debate to its proposed subject. It happens that the objections to the proposed plan for the regulation of Church-rates resolve themselves very obviously into two very distinct classes—consisting of objections to the mode in which an income is proposed to be raised by an improved management of the Church lands; the other, of objections to the application which it is proposed to make of that income when so obtained. Now, it is clear that no attempt of the kind will ever prevent the mighty minds of Members from expatiating over every kindred topic. The
 990 991 Odyssey, 992 993 994 995 996 997 998 999 1000 argumentum ad 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 l. l. s. d. d. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. 1008 l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1009 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1010 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1011 1012 1013
 Mr. Brotherton  having the honour to represent a large constituency, hoped he should be allowed to say a few words as to the reason which influenced him in giving his vote in favour of the measure which had been brought forward by his Majesty's Ministers. In the first place he must tender his sincere thanks to them for introducing such a plan. He considered the measure a good one, both for the Church and for the Dissenters—a measure which would not only relieve the. Dissenters from a practical grievance, but promote harmony and peace, and enable the Church to support its own fabric out of its own funds without the necessity of either compulsory or voluntary contributions. He supported it because he felt confident that a surplus would be obtained out of the Church lands sufficient for all Church purposes, without injury or injustice to any individual whatever. Another
 981 l. 982 l. l. l. l. 983
 Mr. Fowel Buxton  agreed with one of the doctrines of the hon. Member who had just sat down, that every one had a right
 1019 Laughter. 1020 Goulburn
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  cordially concurred in the wish expressed by the right hon. Baronet in the commencement of his speech; for no man regretted more than he did the unfortunate con-
 1035 1036 1037 1038 1039 Opposition Cheers. 1040 Question. 1041 1042 1043 in toto, 1044 1045 1046 1047 1048 1049 1050
 Sir James Graham : Not having presumed on the former occasion, when this subject was introduced to the attention of the House, to deliver his sentiments on it, thought he might perhaps be excused if he then ventured to trespass on the indulgence of the House for a short time, not being willing that a matter of such paramount importance should go to a division, without endeavouring, however imperfectly, to express his opinion upon the motion, as originally introduced by the Government. And here again he must express a feeling which, coming from him, was received with something like a sneer from the other side of the House on a former occasion; yet still pressed upon him so strongly that he must repeat it, that he could not help deeply regretting that all political subjects of paramount importance on which the opinion of the House was required to be taken, were now, unfortunately, mingled with the higher subject of religion, which unhappy intermixture had the effect, in his opinion, of desecrating one, and adding to the acerbity of the other. He might sometimes, in the Warmth of debate, be betrayed into expressions which, being unguarded, he should regret; but the sentiment he had just expressed, conveyed nothing more than his sincere and deliberate opinion. He particularly objected, also, to the practice of pointing out or particularising the religious opinions of any particular Member, and considering them in reference to the course he pursued in that House. He regretted the extent to which this practice now prevailed in the House—a practice too commonly resorted to by the hon. Gentlemen who sat opposite. What, last night, was the designation applied by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) to the hon. Member for St. Andrew's, who moved the amendment? If he mistook not, the hon. and learned Member called that hon. Gentleman the Scoto-Calvinistic Member. That was an example which he should be sorry to follow; but, at the same time, he thought it his duty to call the attention of the House, and more particularly of the public, to one remarkable fact. When his hon. Friend, the Member for Westminster, last night distinctly charged his Majesty's Ministers whenever Church questions were concerned, with a leaning to the Dissenters, and with bitterness and hatred to the Established Church—who
 1022 1023 ad nauseam 1024 l. l. l. 1025 Cheers. 1026 1027 * * 1028 1029 1030 1031 l. 1032 1033 "It is at all times a bad constitution which presents temptations of interest in opposition to the duties of religion, or which makes the offices of religion expensive to those who attend upon them, or which allows pretences of conscience to be an excuse for not sharing in a public burthen. If, by declining to frequent religious assemblies, men could save their money at the same time that they indulged their indolence and their disinclination to exercises of seriousness and reflection, it is to be feared
 1034 * * * * * * "Infidelity is active. It spreads its snares on every side, stealing the heart and preoccupying the judgment against the reception of divine truth. Vice is active, and rallies around her on every side millions as her votaries. Death is active, hurrying away by tens of thousands its victims into eternity; and I ask you, shall we alone remain inactive."
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that one of the inconveniences which attended protracted debates was, that so many topics were touched upon in the course of every speech addressed to the House, which had no immediate reference to the subject-matter of debate, that the attention of the House was diverted from those main considerations by which its decisions should be influenced. It was five-and-thirty minutes from the time the right hon. Gentleman opposite commenced his speech, before he applied himself in any respect whatever to the subject before the House. Five-and-thirty minutes were expended in graceful preludings, before they heard the burthen of the right hon. Gentleman's song. He promised the House that he would not occupy so much time in the main discussion of his argument against the measure; and he said this, because he had a different object in view from the right hon. Gentleman, who was too skilful not to know, that it was better to allude to anything than the matter before the House. The true policy of the case was, that the attention of the House should not be directed to extraneous topics, which could not influence any rational men in forming an opinion on this subject. The question they were called upon to decide on that occasion was, whether, in that, the richest and most prosperous country visited by the light of heaven—and finding that there existed for ages a direct, contribution for the maintenance of the fabrics of the Church Establishment—they would
 1051 1052 1053 l. a fortiori 1054 1055 1056 l. l. 1057 Hansard's Debates, bos humi, 1058 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064
 Mr. Arthur Trevor  concurred in what his hon. Friend had stated with respect to the petitions presented to that House; and he also believed that the voice of the country generally was hostile to this measure. He should now call the attention of the House to another point. The hon. Member for North Durham had, in his speech of last night, alluded to the subject of Church leases. Now, the consternation and alarm which existed in the county of Durham on this subject it would be impossible to describe. He held in his hand a communication which he had received from a highly respectable gentleman residing at South Shields on this part of the case. It stated that the proposed interference with this species of property in the diocese of Durham was likely to involve the most serious consequences to all those who held Church leases, and that already the mortgagees of such property had given notice to the mortgagors for payment of the principal and interest due on their securities. It was utterly impossible that these payments could be made, because no person would now lend money on such property, and the consequence would be ruinous to the owners of Church leases. Such was the condition to which the county of Durham was reduced by the introduction of this measure. It was a well known fact that property of this description, that Church leases, had long been regarded as a species of perpetuity. They had been made the subject of settlements, and money to a considerable amount had been raised upon them. That money was now called in, but the parties were unable to meet the demands upon them, simply because the tendency of this measure was to depreciate this species of property to such
 985 986 987 988 989
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that when the Treasury minute arranged this matter under the Duke of Wellington's Government in 1829, he had thought it all ended, and certainly nothing had since occurred to make it desirable that the matter should be reopened, as all the parties had a right to appeal from the adjudication. He doubted much whether, in point of form, the parties had the power to apply to Parliament on the subject, unless the consent of the Crown were given—for when they applied they did not appeal so much to the justice of Parliament as to the liberality of the Crown. Under all the circumstances, if the matter were pressed to a division, he must oppose the motion.
 Lord Dudley Stuart  said, he should be sorry to stand in the way of a question interesting to Irish Members, but having given notice of the present motion so long ago as before Easter, and having been precluded from bringing it forward on a former occasion by the Government having given precedence to Orders of the Day on motion days, he felt bound under those circumstances to proceed. He hoped, before he sat down, to be able to show that the question was important, though it might riot appear to be so to those who had only superficially considered it. He trusted to be able to prove, that the question he was about to submit to the House was a question interesting to the country, to Europe,
 1086 1087 1088 Foreign Quarterly Review
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the House could not enter upon the question in its present shape, and even if it were presented in a modified form, there would be an objection to the proposition which, in his judgment, would prove insurmountable. In the first place the hon. Member asserted, that there were sufficient funds to meet those claims in the hands of the Commissioners of Woods and
 1083 1084
 Mr. Mackinnon  rose to move for "a Select Committee for the purpose of taking into consideration the claims of D'Arcy Talbot, Esq., and other claimants on the French Compensation Fund." The House would not by the result of the decision of such a Committee dip into the public purse, but merely apply certain funds now in the hands of the Government. Those funds had been granted by the Government of France in 1815, and had been vested in Commissioners for distribution to the claimants, among whom was D'Arcy Talbot, Esq., a Roman Catholic Gentleman of the highest respectability. His claim was for 31,000 francs; it was one not to be contradicted, and he had in-formed the first Commissioner, that he should require more time than would elapse before they made their award to produce the documents necessary to satisfy them of his right. The first award had been made in 1820. In 1826 another
 1082 distringas distringas
 Mr. Sharman Crawford , on rising to move the repeal of the Act of the 5th and 6th William 4th, c. 48, intituled, "An Act for the Prevention and more speedy Punishment of Offences endangering the public peace in Ireland," said, that he should have greatly rejoiced if the motion he was about to make had emanated from his Majesty's Government; but, as that had not been done, he had felt it his duty to persevere in bringing the subject under the consideration of the House; for this Act was of such a nature, that it could only be justified by a case of extraordinary necessity; and, if that necessity could not be shown to exist, then such an enactment ought not to be allowed a place in the Statute-book. After reciting several clauses of the Act, with a view of showing its extreme stringency, the hon. Member went on to observe, that it might be objected to him that this statute was never acted upon. He would admit that it had never been acted upon by the Government of Lord Mulgrave; but if the Irish people were to depend for their rights and liberties on the forbearance of a government, he thought the case of their rights and liberties would be perilous indeed. Suppose that a government were disposed to act with partiality (he did not care whether towards Catholics or Protestants), and appointed partial sheriffs, who would summon partial juries, how, he asked, was a poor man to
 1079
 Viscount Morpeth  expressed his regret that his Majesty's Ministers could not reconcile it with their sense of duty to assent to the motion of the hon. Gentleman. The House would recollect, that in 1833 and 1834, the state of Ireland was such that the House felt itself bound to pass two laws of a very stringent and coercive character. He would not now
 1080
 Mr. E. J. Stanley  stated, that when the writ had been forwarded in the usual
 1091
 Mr. E. J. Stanley  said, that as his conduct was brought into question, he hoped there would be no interposition of hon. Gentlemen, and he requested his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) to wave his opposition.
 Sir R Peel  observed, that this was the first instance of a dropped notice taking precedence of all other business.
 Lord John Russell  replied, that it had occurred more than once.
 Sir R. Peel  considered that the practice would be inconvenient if generally adopted. He was aware that there was a pretty general feeling in the House of forwarding the Irish Poor-law Bill as much as possible. It was this general feeling that induced, on the present occasion, a general concurrence in the motion of the noble Lord. He should acquiesce in that feeling, and offer no objection. He felt it necessary, however, to protest against the precedent being generally acted on.
 Mr. Lynch  objected to the clause. He was opposed to magistrates being made  ex officio 1096
 Viscount Morpeth  considered, that it would be a very ungenerous act to exclude the whole of the magistrates. He did not think that it would tend to harmony or to the efficient working of the Bill to exclude the whole body of the magistrates.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that it would be wrong to exclude the magistrates; but it was a different thing to make them members. If they were elected they should not be excluded from acting. The noble Lord seemed to think that the magistrates would only elect the best members of their body to be guardians. What he was afraid of was, that the election would go in the contrary direction. He did not wish to make any accusation against the magistrates. They had been already spoken of by others in that House, and the opinions of Lord Redesdale and Lord Manners were recorded against them. He begged to assure the noble Lord that with such a clause as the present the Bill never would be accepted as a boon in Ireland.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had no feeling upon this subject, except that of making it an efficient measure. He thought that it would be very desirable to have the magistrates  ex-officio
 Lord John Russell  observed, that it was stated by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny that in case magistrates were approved of by the people they would be elected. He did not think that this would follow as a necessary consequence, for there might be prejudices against them as magistrates. The constant meeting of magistrates would, he hoped, do away with all such feelings, if they existed. He could not give up as hopeless the chance of producing a good feeling between those elected by the rate-payers and the magistrates.
 Lord Morpeth  saw no good reason for the alteration proposed; but he had no objection to make the number one-fourth instead of one-third.
 Lord J. Russell  was very sorry that he could not agree to the alteration proposed. He thought that the magistracy ought to be allowed to select out of their own body such of themselves as they thought best fitted to perform the duties of Members of the Board of guardians.
 Mr. Hume  submitted to the noble Lord whether he would not reconsider what he had stated. He was sure that the noble Lord must be anxious to make this Bill popular, and he (Mr. Hume) was quite sure that that object would not be answered by the rejection of this amendment.
 Viscount Morpeth  hoped that the Bill would prove popular and work well, but he did not think that popularity should be the only consideration. They had not this consideration only in view when they introduced the English Poor-law Amendment Act. There was in that act a corresponding provision to the present, the only difference being, that whereas in England all justices of the peace might be Members of the board of guardians, they proposed that for Ireland a certain number of the magistrates only should be elected. He thought that the magistrates were themselves the best judges of the persons who were best qualified to represent them, and he must therefore oppose the amendment.
 Mr. Jephson  would oppose the amendment, as he thought that the effect of it would be to do away with  ex officio
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  objected to the arbitrary power proposed to be given to the Commissioners of appointing Guardians under certain circumstances. He moved the omission of this passage from the 12th to the 32d line of the clause.
 Sir R. Ferguson  objected also to the power given in the two previous lines, of removing the guardians if they did not act with due diligence in obedience to the orders of the Commissioners.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the jealousy of the Commissioners was a very unfounded one. This clause would give the means of correcting many of the evils of the former clause. The question was, whether the Commissioners were to have an efficacious and controlling power over the guardians, if so, the words were essentially necessary.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that unless some power of this kind were given to the Commissioners, they might run the risk of having the whole system stopped for want of efficient means of carrying it on.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that having had no opportunity, from not knowing that the question was to be put, to consult the Act of Parliament, he must suppose that the right hon. Baronet was right. In making no objection, however, to the motion of the right hon. Baronet, he must guard himself against implying anything against his hon. Friend, either that he had acted against an Act of Parliament, or inconsistently with his duty. He himself often received his regular letters by express, the ordinary post being sent occasionally in that way.
 Lord John Russell  requested of his right hon. Friend near him not to address the House on the present occasion. He did so, not that he did not believe but that his right hon. Friend had to give an explanation which would be satisfactory to the House; but he must submit to the House whether, on the Order of the Day, by which it was proposed to proceed with the Committee on a measure with respect to which the House had already proceeded some way—whether, upon the proposal of proceeding with that Committee, it was desirable and convenient to arrest the progress of that Committee, and for the House to stop, and this for the purpose of attending to a discussion upon a question relative to presents made by the King of Oude to his Majesty? If the speech of the hon. Member had demonstrated anything, it was the necessity of having a Committee appointed for the purpose of inquiring whether the business of the House
 1095
 Mr. Lambton  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) if he had any objection to furnish the House with the authority upon which he made the statement.
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the right hon. Baronet was premature and also irregular. He might, perhaps, agree to the motion at another time, but he thought that it was, as brought on then, a departure from the uniform practice of the House. [ Expressions of dissent.
 Mr. B. Hoy  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for copies of the papers relating to certain presents sent to this country for their Majesties by the King of Oude. The presents were sent from Calcutta under an escort of British troops, and embarked under the sanction of the Governor-General; and after having arrived in this country, they were so sent back as amounted to treating the Prince who sent them with contempt. The mere sending them back was a great contempt; but the contempt was greater when unaccompanied with any explanation. He had no doubt that the right hon. Gentleman opposite would clear the matter up, and lay before the House those papers which were necessary to give a full explanation of it. He believed that the charge of misgovernment had been brought against the King of Oude by discarded servants or otherwise dissatisfied persons. He must say, that having received presents from other princes in India, and refused those in question, we had offered an insult to this unhappy prince, whose ancestors had given up the half of their territories to the Indian government for promised protection. He concluded by moving for copies of the correspondence on the subject of the presents sent by the King of Oude.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was quite right that the rules of the statute should he complied with, as neither party ought to have an advantage. He would submit, however, that in agreeing to the motion, the House would be acting as if a violation of the law had been proved. The right hon. Baronet should first give notice of his motion; he should then state his case and make his motion. The noble Lord in agreeing to the motion, seemed himself to admit that there was something wrong. He (Mr. Hume) thought that it was not right to throw suspicion; and as the authority on which the statement was made was not made known, he hoped the House would not agree to the motion. He suggested to the right hon. Baronet that he had better take the course which he had pointed out.
 Mr. Wason  remarked, that if the writ were not properly sent, the election would be void.
 Mr. Wakley  begged to know if the right hon. Baronet meant to found his motion on the 53d of Geo. 3rd? The right hon. Baronet nodded assent; and that being the case, he (Mr. Wakley) would deny that the House could exercise any jurisdiction in the matter. If the right hon. Baronet would read the sixth section he would acknowledge such to be the case. The sixth section provided that if any person wilfully neglected or delayed to deliver the writs, they might be proceeded against by indictment in his Majesty's Court of King's Bench. Now, he begged to ask whether the House meant to summon the parties before it, and compel them to confess that they had been guilty of this offence? If so, he for one would most decidedly oppose such an inquisitorial proceeding.
 Sir J. Graham  stated most distinctly that he would not mention the name of the party from whom he had received his information. As it appeared to him to touch the privileges of the House, he thought it to be his duty to have the matter cleared up without delay; and as his Majesty's Ministers had the power to clear it up, he felt himself compelled to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department whether the writ had been sent by express or post; and if by the former, whether it had been done under his direction. The noble Lord had stated he was not aware of the manner in which the writ had been transmitted, and that if sent by express, it had not been done by his direction. Upon the noble Lord making that statement, he (Sir J. Graham) then asked the hon. Member the Secretary for the Treasury whether the writ had been transmitted in the usual manner? To that question the hon. Gentleman had stated that he had written a note to the Postmaster-General, or his deputy, stating that it was of importance that the writ should be transmitted without delay; but that right hon. Gentleman had not stated whether it had been transmitted by the mail or not. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Finsbury, he would only say, if there had been any infraction of the law it was competent for the House to direct his Majesty's Attorney-
 1094
 Sir J. Graham  did not give notice because he could hardly believe the statement. He had reason to believe it, and ho had in his place asked whether it was founded in fact. The Secretary for the Treasury said, that he did write a note, directing the writ to be forwarded with as little delay as possible. Now, he wanted facts cleared up, and the persons who were able to put the House in possession of those facts were the individuals whose attendance
 1092
 Sir J. Graham  would then move that the Messenger from the Crown-office, and the officer of the Post-office, who had received the writ and signed the receipt for it, be ordered to attend at the bar on Tuesday next.
 Sir James Graham  wished to draw the attention of the House a question inolving the privileges of the House, the freedom of elections, (and as we understood) a violation of the law. In consequence of the abuses which prevailed in the Crown-office in the year 1813, an act was passed, ordering the Clerk of the Crown for the future to issue two writs, one to be sent to the Crown, the other to the Postmaster-General. The Postmaster-General, on receiving the writ, was to send it off at once by the regular post or mail. Now, he had that morning received a letter from Glasgow, from an authority not to be disputed, in which it was said that the writ for a new Member for Glasgow had been sent, not by mail or post, but by express. He wished to know whether that were true? And if true, whether the departure from the regular mode was in conformity with instructions from the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, or with instructions from the Secretary for the Treasury.
 The Attorney-General  said, the case appeared to him a fit subject for inquiry, although he did not think the right hon. Baronet had made out a strong case, or indeed any case at all; but after the observations of his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Treasury he should not oppose it. There were portions of the Act of Parliament directory, as was the case with respect to the transmission of the writ; but to suppose that a non-compliance with that directory part would vitiate the election was absurd. If any proof was given of the electors not having had an opportunity of fully and fairly expressing their sentiments, then there would be good grounds for setting the election aside, but nothing of the kind could be proved in the present case.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that in the case of Poole there had been a delay of three weeks, in the case of Kirkcudbright of four months, and yet there had been no void election. The House of Commons had thought it right that the Executive Government should have nothing to do with the issue of writs. So important did the House think it, that it voted a sum of 520 l.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  had been forty years in the House, and till then had never heard it doubted that it was the duty of a Member of Parliament, on receiving information of a breach of privilege, to complain of it immediately to the House. The House was accustomed to proceed to the consideration of it at once, causing it to supersede every other business, even the consideration of the King's speech, as was the case when Mr. Heed's pamphlet was published.
 Lord George Lennox  observed, that on the 9th of this month, an instruction was given by the House to the London and Brighton Railway Committee to this effect: —that the Committee was to examine the engineering merits of the competing lines, to enable the House to determine which to send back to the Committee. Now, he maintained that the Committee had not sent to the House the information which was required by the instruction. He objected to the constitution of the Committee which had decided in favour of Sir John Rennie's line. The investigation had lasted twenty-seven days, and the average attendance of Members each day was twenty, but on the twenty-eighth day they were honoured with the attendance of forty-five Members, six of whom voted for Sir John Rennie's line, having been there only one day, and without having heard one word of the engineering evidence. He should move, as an amendment upon the motion of the hon. Member for East Surrey, that an humble address be presented to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to furnish some military engineer to survey the several lines of Brighton Railway
 1102
 Lord J. Russell : The right hon. Gentleman (Sir James Graham) will have the opportunity of making any comparison which he may desire to institute when the letter is produced. He seems now, however, to be insinuating. From the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman has expressed himself, I make no doubt, that after the charge which he has already brought against my hon. Friend of violating the Act of Parliament in forwarding the writ, he will now bring against him another and a felonious charge—the charge of having forged this letter; although, when the first mention was made of it, he avowed himself the writer of it, and declared his intention of producing it.
 Sir J. Graham : I know not, Sir, that there has been anything in my demeanour that justifies the insinuation which the noble Lord thinks proper to make; or anything in the mode in which I have brought forward and sustained this charge which justifies the peculiar temper which hon. Gentlemen had thought proper to exhibit at the opposite side. But, Sir, neither by that tone, nor by that temper, nor by the manner which the noble Lord has thought fit to assume, shall I be deterred from the exercise of what I conceive to be a public duty. I certainly, Sir, mean nothing disrespectful towards the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Secretary to the Treasury; but it must be remembered, that we are here proceeding judicially. The witness, who told you that he was aware that an Act of Parliament was about to be violated, told you that he performed that act under the direction, as he conceived, of a Member of his Majesty's Government, holding the responsible official situation of Secretary to the Treasury; that he received a letter, which was conveyed to him by an unknown hand, by a person who was, in fact, an utter stranger to him. He was told, he was at liberty to open the letter; he opened it, and it conveyed to him the direction that a particular letter should be forwarded by express. The first impression of the witness, as recorded by him in his evidence before the House, was, that this was a violation of the law; and he informed the person who delivered the letter, that such was his impression. He, nevertheless, acted upon the direction which that letter contained. It appears, that he kept the letter until the subsequent morning; and to whom did he then deliver it? If he said that he had given it to the hon. Gentleman opposite, I would not seek to trace this transaction further. But he has said distinctly, that he gave the letter, not to the hon. Secretary to the Treasury, but to Colonel Maberly. Surely, there can be no offence legitimately taken, and most assuredly I mean none, because I express a desire to have the investigation carried to this point. If the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary to the Treasury, produces a letter which he says he wrote, it is clearly important to ascertain whether the letter which has been given to this person by a total stranger, is or is not the same document.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  ob-
 1105 bond fide 1106
 Mr. Roebuck  said, that the right hon. Baronet had exhibited no small degree of inconsistency in this matter. On a former night he had commenced his accusation by stating that he had received a letter, upon which he thought it necessary to found a charge, in which one of his Majesty's Ministers would be involved. Upon its having been pointed out to him that this, as being an anonymous letter, was objectionable evidence on which to found such a charge, what was his answer? Why, that as a Member of Parliament, he had a right to state that he had received such information. The Secretary to the Treasury had subsequently got up, and stated his intention of producing the letter in question, upon which the right hon. Gentleman threw a doubt upon the very class of testimony to which he himself had appealed the night before as irrefragable. And the right hon. Gentleman had, in his own case, attached to the declaration of a Member of Parliament the value of testimony, while he refused to make any such acknowledgment in the case of the hon. Secretary to the Treasury; thus claiming to himself a privilege which he denied to another hon. Member.
 Sir J. Graham  hoped he might be excused for briefly asking the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down whether he was to understand that, because he had accused his Majesty's Government of violating the Act of Parliament, the issue was now to be changed, and he himself was to be put upon his trial? It was impossible that the hon. Member for Bath should not be aware of the complete distinction which existed between the two cases. The assertion of a Member in his place in Parliament, however vague and uncertain it might be, touching any question affecting the freedom of election or the conduct of Government, afforded ample ground to justify the House in instituting inquiry. But when the inquiry was in the act of being proceeded with when its subject-matter was under consideration by whose direction was a certain
 1107
 Mr. E. J. Stanley  expressed his surprise that, having stated his willingness to produce a copy of the letter which he had sent to Colonel Maberly, an identification of that copy with the original letter, through the means of witnesses at the bar, should have been insisted on, and thought it unparalleled in that House, when an hon. Member stated his intention to produce a copy of a document to institute any inquiry as to its authenticity. He was in the recollection of the House whether, upon the former, as well as on the present night, he had not manifested an eager desire to meet the right hon. Gentleman fully and fairly. If, upon the former occasion, he did not enter fully upon the subject, the House would agree with him that this was not surprising—taken as he was by surprise, without time for communication with a single person, without time for consideration himself, as to the answer which he should give, and without knowing how other parties might possibly be affected by the inquiry. He asked the House whether he had not a right to complain of the right hon. Baronet's conduct towards him. Immediately before a question was put upon a former evening with reference to this matter, the right hon. Gentleman had come behind him (Mr. Stanley) and said, "I wish you would remain in your place,
 1108 1109 "May 17. "Dear Maberly,—It is of the greatest consequence that the writ for Glasgow should go by to-night's post, so that if it should not arrive in time for the Glasgow mail, I should wish it, if possible, to be forwarded by express tonight, and directed to the Sheriff of Lanarkshire, at Glasgow. "The delay has been occasioned by the Chancellor being at Wimbledon; but I believe that the writ will be back in time, or soon after. "Your's ever, E. J. STANLEY. "Lieutenant Colonel Maberly &c." 1110 1111 "Extract from Express-book, March 23,1829. "On His Majesty's service. "To Sandwich. "A packet for the Mayor at 25 minutes to 1 p. m. "(Signed) G. WELCH."
 Sir R. Inglis  observed that the natural sympathy which had been excited in behalf of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down by his hon. Friends around him, had induced him to draw the attention of the House from the real point at issue, which was the authenticity of the letter in question, upon which it was the business of the House judicially to decide.
 The Attorney-General  said that the question was, whether the declaration of an hon. Gentleman in his place in that House should not be received as affording in itself a satisfactory evidence?
 Sir J. Graham  wished to be informed by the hon. Gentleman opposite, whether it was his intention to put in as evidence a copy of the letter which he had read?
 Mr. Stanley : Yes.
 Sir J. Graham  said, that he did not mean to enter into any vindication either of his political or of his personal character; and that he was by no means disposed to be drawn into any such discussion by the taunts of hon. Gentlemen at the opposite side. That conduct was before the public; and between him and the hon. Secretary to the Treasury the public must adjudicate. It was for the public to decide whether in the principles which had guided, or the incidents which had characterized his public life, he had been influenced by private considerations of a low, mean, and despicable character; or whether the motives by hich he had been actuated were as pure and as fitted to win the public approval as they had already entirely secured the approbation of his own heart and conscience. With regard to the particular matter which was now
 1112 1113
 Mr. Curteis  considered, that the proposition of the noble Lord would be most unfair to the majority of the Committee, and it would be setting a monstrous and most unjust precedent.
 Mr. W. Crawford  asserted, that the feeling against Rennie's line was all but universal, from Wandsworth-common to Horsham, and that the consent of every individual land-owner on the line who was in favour of it, had been purchased at a most enormous cost.
 Mr. Pemberton  hoped the House would pause before it adopted the resolutions of the noble Lord. The question which they had to decide was, whether an individual whose character had been slandered and ruined should be dispossessed of his just right to vindicate himself before a jury of his country. He did not see why that right should not be secured to every person without interfering with the privileges of that House. He thought the doctrine laid down by Lord Chief Justice Denman was correct, but he could not help saying the resolutions of the noble Lord seemed to go immeasurably further than the subject required. There was nothing inconsistent in maintaining the privileges of the House and protecting private character. Even the Reform Bill gave the right of action against a revising barrister if he exercised his power improperly. In the case of" Burdett  .v 1125
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  said, that he considered this question one of paramount importance, and on which he found it impossible to give a silent vote. It involved, in effect, nothing less than this fearful issue, viz. whether that House possessed the power by its mere fiat to supersede the law of the land, and shut out the subjects of the realm from the protection heretofore thrown round them by that law? If it possessed that power in cases affecting the private character of individuals, it would follow that it possessed it to an equal extent in cases affecting property, since no man could deny that the right of repelling and refuting slander was a right of equal (frequently of far greater) importance to the subject, than any rights merely involving pecuniary considerations. His learned Friend (Mr. Sergeant Wilde) had talked of the great vigilance and caution with which this right would doubtless be exercised on the part of this House; but he begged to remind his learned Friend, as a proof of what little vigilance or caution was exercised in these matters, that a gross libel on the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, imputing to that learned and excellent person the grossest personal corruption, had been presented to that House by an hon. Member, was afterwards printed, and was now to be purchased for a most inconsiderable sum. The character of the Chief Justice was so deservedly high as to defy all attacks upon it, but the same might be done with respect to the humblest subject in the realm, and that subject would be denied the right of proving the falsehood of the charges made against him—charges it might be of such a nature as to drive him from society. He would also remind the House of the case of the Committee on the Poole Municipal Election Bill, in which the grossest charges were made against numerous individuals of high character in that town, professing to be grounded on affidavits which were wholly omitted from the published report; and yet according to his learned Friend, these individuals were not to be permitted to challenge their accusers to prove, or themselves to be allowed to disprove, the imputations thus falsely thrown upon them. His learned Friend had disputed the authority of the case of Burdett  v. 1129
 Mr. Goulburn  conceived the resolution
 1133
 Mr. Pemberton  thought the omission of the words in question made the resolution less offensive in language, but left it equally objectionable in principle.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that as persons were every moment liable to be proceeded against by action founded on the publication of the papers of that House, he thought it necessary that they should not lose any time in coming to some definitive resolution on the subject.
 Mr. P. Thomson  expressed his intention of supporting, after a little amendment which he would suggest, the proposition of the noble Lord. He thought, that the amendment should be altered so as to direct the Committee to apply for a military engineer, who should give in a report on the three different lines; and that then the Committee should be ordered to report on the engineering evidence altogether.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that it was in consequence of his having read the evidence taken by the Committee—evidence which he suspected that the hon. Member for Middlesex had not yet read—that he had ventured to offer his opinion to the House and to make the suggestion which he had submitted to its consideration.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to direct the attention of the House to some facts which had come out in evidence relative to the subscription-list for Rennie's line. It certainly appeared, that the framing of the subscription-list of last Session was conducted in the most unexceptionable manner; but that line having been rejected, the persons into whose hands the shares had come by sale and purchase, were the persons whose names appeared on the list for the present Bill.
 The Speaker  said, that this was a case which affected one of the most important privileges of that House. If the question were simply one for discussion, and not coming before them in the shape it did, it might be difficult to say that it was entitled to the precedence of the other motions; but the circumstance stated by the noble Lord altered its position, and showed that it was expected that the question would be raised again, which rendered it most important that the House should come to an immediate decision upon it, in order that parties who might have an action brought against them should know, according to the opinion of the House, what course they ought to pursue.
 Mr. Hardy  particularly objected to the second resolution as tyrannical.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the noble Lord would persevere in retaining the original resolution, as he was to gain nothing by the alteration.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised to hear his hon. Friend advance such opinions. No man was more opposed to anything despotic and tyrannical than he was; but he would ask his hon. Friend whether it was not the paramount duty of that House to inquire into abuses, of whatever nature they might be, that were brought before it? And if so, he would also ask whether, if in the course of those inquiries evidence should be adduced criminating particular individuals, they were to stop their proceedings, and prevent all further inquiry being prosecuted? For himself he would say that the high and important duties of Parliament could not be carried on if such a doctrine were to prevail. If the rule laid down by his hon. Friend was to be maintained, then they might as well put an end to all their inquiries. At the same time he admitted it was incumbent on the Committees of the House of Commons to take care that nothing was entered in their minutes which was not strictly necessary to elucidate the subject to which their inquiries were directed. Such a precaution would in a great degree prevent any mis-
 1128
 Mr. Hume  complained of the conduct of Government in throwing its weight into the scale of one of these parties. The Government had formerly refused to interfere between the parties, and he did not know what influence had been used to cause the right hon. Gentleman to interfere now.
 Captain Alsager  said, that the Committee to whom the several Railway Bills between London and Brighton had been referred, had, in obedience to the orders of the House, made a special Report upon the engineering merits of those lines, in favour of the direct line (Sir J. Ronnie's). He moved, that the Report be adopted; that this Bill be sent back to the Committee; that the Committee be directed to have the landholders heard, and the clauses settled; and that the Committee do meet on Thursday next.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  should certainly vote against the resolutions; but in doing so he did not consider that he was at all committed to the amendment proposed by his hon. Friend opposite. In proposing the resolutions he maintained that the House was about to vote to itself a privilege which it had never possessed before. He had read with the greatest pleasure and satisfaction the charge of the Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench, in which the independence of the bench, and the liberty of the subject were most manfully defended. The noble Lord who presided in the court had been a Member of the un-reformed, and a Member of the reformed Parliament, and was therefore fully aware of the privileges of the House of Commons; if, then, the House should pass the resolutions now proposed, it would amount in effect to a vote of censure upon that individual, while it would be giving to themselves the most despotic, tyrannical, and arbitrary power, that ever was established.
 Mr. Wakley  agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex, that the Government ought not to interfere in private contests of this kind. On other private Bills, the Members of Government trotted off to the library, when a division was ex-
 1103
 Mr. Wakley  was anxious to put a question to the Attorney-General. Their great object was to disseminate the proceedings of that House throughout the world. Now, he was anxious to learn whether the privilege they were about to confer was to be restricted to the Officer of that House, or
 1134
 The Attorney-General  would state shortly his reasons for concurring in the resolutions proposed by his noble Friend, and for opposing those moved by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford. That hon. Gentleman had regretted the thinness of the House, and that the feeling of the House had given way for the introduction of the subject. He could not join in that regret, because he believed those two very circumstances indicated that the House was nearly, if not altogether, unanimously in favour of the resolutions of the noble Lord. Looking at the constitution of the Committee, it would be seen that it had been formed without any reference to party, and it would be found also, that no one had opposed the resolutions of that Committee but the hon. Baronet, who stood quite alone. When he first had the subject under his consideration, he was very much inclined to think that there was a distinction between printing for the House and for the public, and that was the line of argument he took before Lord Chief Justice Denman, but upon maturer deliberation, he was convinced that such a distinction was wholly untenable. As the law now stood, an action might be brought against him for allowing a friend who visited his library to read any book or report which happened to have been printed by the House for the purpose of giving information to the Members thereof on the subject on which they were called to legislate, and he was very much afraid that an action might be brought against the Speaker himself. He believed that right hon. Gentleman and his predecessors had been in the habit of allowing persons to read papers which had been printed for the use of the Members of that House, and therefore, even under the view taken by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, an
 1123 1124
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that having unfortunately been in a minority in the Select Committee, to whose Report the noble Lord had referred, he owed it to his own consistency to state publicly to the House what he had already said privately in Committee on this subject. In the first place, however, he could not but think that the noble Lord would have consulted
 1117 brutum fulmen? 1118 1119 v l 1120 1121 "That the privileges claimed by this House from the King at the opening of each Parliament, and granted by the King, and also the other privileges pertaining to this House, which have been recognised by the courts of law within the realm (the same being privileges for maintaining the freedom of debate within the House and the security of the persons of Members thereof from arbitrary violence, and from all arrest, except by courts of law for contempt, or in execution of criminal process), are essentially necessary to the existence and integrity of this House as a body summoned to counsel the King touching the arduous affairs of Church and State; and that any person offending against such privileges is guilty of a violation of the law of Parliament. "That the right to punish persons guilty of such offences, whether such offences were by interrupting the freedom of debate within the House, either by direct violence, by threat to any Member thereof, by publishing any libel against the proceedings of the House, or were by contempt of the House before it, or were by arrest of any Members thereof other than in execution of lawful process, as aforesaid, hath been repeatedly claimed and enforced by the authority of the House, and that no other authority hath or ought to have any jurisdiction whatever in limiting the exercise of the powers of the House in punishing all persons so offending. "That although the House hath occasionally addressed the King to direct his Majesty's Attorney-General to prosecute offenders for publishing libels against the proceedings of this House, yet that this House hath likewise an undoubted right to inquire into all libels against its authority or proceedings, and to punish the same accordingly, as breaches of its privileges. "That no Member of this House hath any claim of privilege in respect to the publication of any matter or thing purporting to be his speech, which by due course of law may be found to be a libel, and that this House hath never interfered, and ought not to interfere, in any legal proceedings instituted thereon. "That this House doth not claim any right, and that no other body of his Majesty's subjects hath any right, to publish any matter or thing which by law would be adjudged to be a libel if contained in an unauthorised publication, or to do anything which by law would be adjudged to be trespass, or any personal injury. "That the printing of papers presented to this House, whether the same be accounts, reports, or otherwise, is or ought to be, for the use of Members of this House, and, as such, ought to be publication privileged; but that any sale or dispersal of such papers to any but to Members of this House is, and ought to be, publication not privileged. "That while this House will resent and resist every attempt on the part of others to
 1122
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he should be sorry to come to a decision without shortly expressing the ground on which he should vote in favour of the resolutions proposed by his Majesty's Ministers. The first impression of every man, and particularly of those who had not paid much attention to this subject, would unquestionably be adverse to the principle upon which the Report of the Committee was founded; for it must appear manifestly unjust that any public authority should have the power of authorising the publication and the sale of libels upon the characters of individuals. At the same time, however, he was convinced that upon mature reflection those who had given way to this first impression, would ultimately acquiesce in the absolute necessity, if the House of Commons were to continue in the discharge of its constitutional powers, of maintaining this privilege of publication, and in maintaining for itself the exclusive right of judging of the extent and nature of that privilege, Was it, he would ask, the duty of the House of Commons to institute free inquiries into alleged abuses of public trusts? If that were its duty, if it were one of the public functions of the House to institute those inquiries, what was the limit which was to be placed, or the discretion to be exercised, in conducting those inquiries? Was it not manifest, if the House did not possess a free and unfettered power of compelling the appearance of witnesses and of instituting a free and unfettered inquiry, that their privilege, or their duty rather, as the grand inquest of the nation, must be at once paralysed? But if the House of Commons possessed the power of compelling the attendance of witnesses and of compelling those witnesses to make a disclosure of the truth, ought they not, having so done, and having given publicity to such evi-
 1130 1131 1132
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  said, that the words proposed to be left out by the noble Lord had been adopted by the House before.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  thought the question which they had to decide was whether they should entirely discontinue publishing their reports and minutes of evidence; for if those reports only were published which exposed no abuse and discovered no wrong, the public would gain but a small portion of benefit from the inquiries of Parliament. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Pemberton) had altogether shrunk from the real investigation. There was not, looking to the cases which had been quoted in the report, the slightest ground of legal doubt of the privilege claimed and the propriety of the resolutions which had been moved. He would put the question
 1126 1127
 Mr. Williams Wynn  agreed in most of the abstract propositions of his right hon. Friend, but he thought that the ends of justice for the preservation of private character would be sufficiently answered if the parties who considered themselves libelled were permitted, on petition to come before the House, and attempt to disprove by evidence the charges made derogatory to their character. Such was the tenor of the precedents in all similar cases on the Journals of the House. If an inquiry were to be instituted as to certain alleged criminal acts by a gaoler, and evidence conclusive as to his guilt appeared in the Report of the Committee, would it be tolerated by Parliament that this should be made the ground of an action in a court of law? In his opinion, certainly not. Whenever power was given for the benefit of the public, it would be impossible to guard against some amount of positive evil resulting from its exercise; and the question then was, whether the law of Parliament and the interest of the public should abate in favour of the interests of private individuals. The privilege had existed ever since the reign of Henry 3rd. No one but Chief Justice Holt, and he was opposed in opinion by the eleven other Judges, had attempted to question the principle that the House of Commons was the only competent judge of its privileges. The result of allowing the right to be questioned would be to decide all questions affecting the privileges of the House by an appeal to the House of Lords, and the common privileges would then depend solely on the sufferance of that coordinate branch of the Legislature. He should give his most cordial assent to the resolutions.
 Sir W. Molesworth  said, he did not consider the question to be one of privilege, and refused to give way to the noble Lord.
 Viscount Howick  proceeded: His object was, to move certain resolutions founded on the Report of the Committee on the publication of printed papers, of which Committee he had had the honour to be chairman. To that Committee had been referred the consideration of the proceedings at Nisi Prius in the case of Stockdale  v "That the power of publishing such of its
 1114 "That by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges, and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit, or other proceeding, for the purpose of bringing them into discussion or decision before any court or tribunal elsewhere than in Parliament, is a high breach of such privilege, and renders all parties concerned therein amenable to its just displeasure, and to the punishment con. sequent thereon. "That for any court or tribunal to assume to decide upon matters of privilege inconsistent with the determination of either House of Parliament thereon, is contrary to the law of Parliament, and is a breach and contempt of the privileges of Parliament." l 1115 1116
 Viscount Howick  rose to propose that the motion of which he had given notice should stand next on the orders, as it related to a question of privilege, and he thought he would be justified in proceeding with it.
 Viscount Howick  said, as some difference of opinion prevailed with regard to this resolution, he thought it might be expedient to alter a portion of the words; the principle he considered unexceptionable. He proposed, then, to make an alteration which, while it would retain all that was necessary, might meet some of the objections urged against the resolution. The amendment he had to suggest was, that they should stop at the word "privileges" at the beginning of the third line; the resolution would then read thus:—"By the law of the privileges of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine the degree and extent of its privileges."
 Viscount Howick  would adopt the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman.
 Colonel Thompson  said, he should feel obliged by being told from any quarter, if he was labouring under any strong hallucination, or had the appearance of being
 1156
 Mr. A. Trevor  seconded the motion, because he thought such a system would work beneficially for the poorer classes of the community.
 The Speaker  said, if the money was to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, it would be more convenient to follow the usual practice, and move resolutions in Committee.
 Mr. Borthwick  said, if such was the usual practice, he would he ready to act according to it; but what he simply wanted was to obtain leave to bring in a Bill, in order that he might ascertain the intentions of his Majesty's Ministers on the subject. When the Bill went into Committee he would propose resolutions for a grant of money, and proceed accordingly.
 The Speaker  did not mean to say, that it was absolutely necessary to propose resolutions in Committee before leave was given to bring in a Bill; but as a proposition for a grant of money must be made in Committee, it would be better to follow the usual practice.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that, having already heard the hon. Member for Middlesex state this very case six or seven times, and having himself had on several of those occasions to reply to it, he should say a very few words on the present occasion, particularly after the very clear and straightforward statement which they had just heard from the noble Lord the Secretary at War. Upon looking into the whole of the evidence in this case, he fell felt bound to declare that, in his opinion, there was not a shadow of foundation for the charges against Colonel Arthur.
 Mr. Hume  said, that undoubtedly if Colonel Bradley had taken the course stated by the noble Lord, that House ought not to listen to his demand for inquiry. But if, on the other hand, Colonel Bradley did report this very case to the Horse Guards at the time, and that his report received no attention, if that were the case it altered the matter altogether. It was a case of the grossest injustice. It was proved beyond all doubt that the case referred to by the noble Lord had been reported to the Horse Guards by Colonel Bradley at the time; but no notice was taken of it. He denied the statements made by the noble Lord with respect to the attempt alleged to have been made by Colonel Bradley to excite a mutiny. The noble Lord was quite misinformed as to the accuracy of this statement. He thought it very improper to remove Colonel Bradley without a court-martial. Colonel Bradley himself courted inquiry, and on his return to this country brought an action against Colonel Arthur in which he obtained a verdict. Inquiry now could not be instituted anywhere but in that. House, and he thought that the House should not refuse to go into the case.
 Mr. T. Duncombe , in rising to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the allegations contained in the petition presented from Colonel Bradley, on the 17th of February last, entered into a detail of the circumstances which, in the year 1818, induced Colonel Arthur, who was then Governor of Honduras, to place Colonel Bradley for several weeks under military arrest. The details have been so often reported, that it seems unnecessary to repeat them. The hon. Member proceeded to press upon the House the necessity of examining into the charges which he had brought against Colonel Arthur, on the testimony of Colonel Bradley—charges which accused him of gross cruelty and inhumanity towards the soldiers under his command, in the infliction of the ordinary military punishments. He had accused Colonel Arthur of having ordered a soldier, of the name of Ingram to be flogged by tap of drum. That accusation had been most indignantly denied: but he had since seen a merchant, now resident in London, who said, that he well recollected men being flogged at Honduras, by tap of drum, during the time that Colonel Arthur was governor of that colony. The same merchant had also told him, that he had received a letter from his correspondent at Belize, in which it was stated, that he had heard that there was a black man then living, who could testify to the same facts; and a drummer, who would however say nothing, unless he was taken home to England, and received something for his trouble. He contended, that Captain Willis had not denied the fact of the cruelty of the punishment inflicted on Ingram; all that Captain Willis had said was, that he had no recollection of it whatever. The hon. Member then proceeded to state, that the case of Ingram was not a solitary case. He could mention the case of a man of the name of Reeves, who had also been flogged by tap of drum by order of Colonel Arthur. On that case he could produce a letter from Colonel Arthur, to the commanding officer of the regiment, in which he desired that "the punishment might not be hurried, but might be most impressively inflicted." There was also another case of the same description, in which 700 lashes were
 1151 1152 per fas et nefas
 The Attorney-General  had petitions of great importance to present to the House. The first was a petition from John Hart Nicholls, who was a printer to the House, and had been employed in printing the votes and proceedings of the House for upwards of thirty years, without any action having been brought against him, until he had received a notice for printing a petition relative to one Thomas Green. A petition had been presented on the 14th March from Green. The House made an order upon that petition respecting the Greenwich railway, and a petition was subsequently presented denying certain charges made in the petition of Thomas Green. Since then the petitioner had received notice of an action for libel from the attorney of Thomas Green. The notice was signed Thomas Lord; and it declared that the petition was a libel against Thomas Green, and for which an action was to be brought against Mr. Nicholls. The second petition was from Mr. Hansard, in which it was stated that there was another action brought against him by Mr. Stockdale, alleging that there was a libel against him in publications printed by order of the House. This fact the petitioner thought it to be his duty to lay before the House, in order that the House might give him directions how to proceed, when an action was commenced against him for obeying the orders of the House. He concluded by moving, that the petitions should be printed
 1150
 Viscount Howick  felt it his duty to oppose the motion. He begged to say, that when Colonel Arthur presented a petition to that House, praying for inquiry, he (Colonel Arthur) did not know what course the Government was prepared to take respecting it. Colonel Arthur was sincerely and anxiously desirous that a Committee of Inquiry should be appointed. He applied not only to this House, but to the Commander-in-chief for inquiry. Having, however, carefully considered the whole question, he (Lord Howick,) felt it to be his duty, for reasons which he would shortly explain to the House, to state that an inquiry ought not to be granted. The hon. Member for Finsbury called for inquiry into the circumstances under which Colonel Arthur claimed to exercise military authority at Honduras; and, secondly, he demanded inquiry into the manner in which Colonel Arthur exercised this authority, and into several cases of cruelty alleged to have been committed by Colonel Arthur. With respect to the first point, he would state very shortly his reasons for refusing a Committee, and they were, in his opinion, quite decisive The question had been already brought before a tribunal which was infinitely better capable of deciding it than a Committee of that House. Colonel Bradley had brought an action in the Court of King's Bench against Colonel Arthur for false imprisonment. In that action Colonel Bradley recovered damages to the amount of £100, on the ground that Colonel Arthur exercised a needless severity in the imprisonment; but the jury distinctly negatived the allegation that Colonel Arthur had wrongfully assumed the command. He thought that the jury had formed a mistaken opinion as to the amount of severity; but Colonel Bradley was so sensible of the effect of the verdict that he applied for a new trial on the express ground that Co-
 1153 1154 1155
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested, that there should be some limitation fixed in the clause as to the number of acres which the Commissioners might hire for each workhouse.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  thought, that the Commissioners ought to have a discretionary power to fix the number of acres to be hired by each workhouse.
 Captain Jones  said, that the amendment would be useless, for there was no provision in the clause to compel paupers to work on the land, or any where except in the workhouse. Instead, therefore, of giving large tracts of land to be cultivated by pauper labour, he should feel disposed to limit the number of acres to much less than those proposed in the Bill.
 Sir G. Sinclair  could not help expressing his surprise that no day had as yet been fixed for the discussion of the Budget. He regretted this, certainly, in the first place, because every man at this moment was extremely desirous of ascertaining, and very justly so, what were the prospects of the country, and what were the financial plans of the Ministry for the current year; and secondly, because a discussion on that subject would afford those Members who were connected with the manufacturing and commercial interests of the country an opportunity of submitting to the House their opinion as to the causes of the distress that was at present prevailing in the manufacturing districts, and of pointing out the extent to which that distress had gone, and the remedies it might be neces-
 1160 l. l. l.
 Lord J. Russell  was prepared to contend, whenever the question was regularly brought forward, and when notice of such a discussion, had been given, which it seemed was no longer to be the practice of that House, that his right hon. Friend had exercised a sound discretion in postponing the consideration of the Budget for the present. He should be prepared also to contend, that if any Member influenced by motives less pure and patriotic than those by which the hon. Gentleman was known to be actuated had wished to excite alarm and increase the present embarrassment by throwing out hints of future misfortunes and discontents, he would take the same course which the hon. Gentleman, with perfectly innocent motives, had adopted. His opinion certainly was, that the questions to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded were questions of very great importance; at the same time he must say, that the embarrassments at present prevailing were not to be compared with those which existed in the country in 1826. He
 1161
 Mr. Richards  with the greatest possible deference to the noble Lord, must say, that the public was most earnestly anxious that the House should institute an inquiry into the state of the country. Night after night, and day after day, they went on discussing questions of no moment at all, and if the House would not attend to matters of pressing interests and real importance, they had better vacate their functions at once. When the merchants and manufacturers of this country were in a state of the greatest distress, when the present was full of difficulty and danger, and the future of alarm, he must say, that it was too much for the noble Lord to get up and rebuke the hon. Baronet for having expressed a wish that the budget should be brought forward on an early day, although his question might imply that the Government had not acted as it ought to have done. For his own part, he felt that the Government had not done its duty.
 Mr. Robinson  did not participate in the apprehensions entertained by his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Richards), but at the same time he must say, that unless the Chancellor of the Exchequer had some reason for deferring his budget, it was desirable that they should have as early an exposition as possible of the intentions of the Government with respect to the public revenue and the public expenditure. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend in thinking that they wasted a great deal of time in the most useless and unprofitable manner, and he thought that if the noble Lord and the Government could give a more lofty tone and a better direction to the feelings of the House with respect to the business brought under its consideration, it would tend to raise the character of the House, not, he was afraid, standing very high at the present moment.
 Mr. Richards  thought it would be a great and material improvement on the present measure, if it contained a provision assigning a district of eight miles square as the space within which the jurisdiction of such workhouse was to take effect; he should also propose, that no able-bodied person be received in such workhouse as a lodger. Amongst the grounds upon which he objected to the application of the workhouse system to Ireland, was this—that if once the poor of that country obtained the advantage of decent beds, of sufficient shelter from the inclemency of the weather, of food in moderate quantity, and of the other accommodations which even the workhouse supplied, there would be no possibility of inducing them to keep away from those asylums. If they received persons into their workhouses as lodgers, they must provide them with sufficient apartments, with beds, and with all things belonging to lodging rooms. Now, according to the plan which he proposed, the workhouses would be open all day and merely closed at night, the parties applying for relief there going home at the end of each day, and being at liberty to return, if necessary, on the following morning. His plan had the advantage of cheapness, and it was quite obvious that the poor would leave the workhouse as soon as they could get employment elsewhere. The Mendicity Society kept their house open all day, and kept those who came to them at work; at night they gave them a penny each towards providing a lodging, and dismissed them till the day following. That institution, as the House must be aware, was maintained by voluntary contributions from persons occupying 2,000 out of the 11,500 rated-houses in the city
 1165 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the amount of the subsisting subscriptions in aid of pauperism in Ireland, appeared to be underrated; and that this was a subject of which hon. Members should not lose sight. The population of Dublin amounted to 240,000, and it was quite a mistaken notion to suppose, that its pauperism could be disposed of by levying rates to the amount of 9,0001 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  moved an amendment, namely, to insert at the end, these words: —" That until such workhouses shall be erected, or in cases where they shall be found to be insufficient for the purposes required, it shall be lawful for the guardians, under the control of the Commissioners, to make such other provisions out of the rates as they shall think fit."
 Mr. S. Crawford  said, the only Poor-law which could be efficient for the relief of the Irish poor, would be that which would so re-act on the landlords, as to make it their interest to employ the poor, The workhouse system, as it was proposed in this Bill, would fail of that object. Why should the hands of the Commissioners and the guardians be tied up from giving relief to the poor out of the workhouse? If the workhouse was to be the sole relief to the Irish poor, then it would
 1164
 Mr. O'Connell  felt very much inclined to move that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again, for this most important point had not been sufficiently discussed. He had listened to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) with the most painful anxiety, and he must say, he had used no argument to induce the Committee to agree to the clause as it now stood. He should vote for the amendment of his hon. Friend, the Member for Limerick, looking to the state of Ireland as most likely to serve the purposes of benevolence, and the cause of peace and social order in that country. They did not require workhouses or imprisonment to stimulate the Irish to work, they were eager to obtain it. This Bill, which was supported by English Members with the view of tranquillizing Ireland, so far from producing order and tranquillity, would increase irritation and agrarian disturbance. Would it console the people to imprison them in a workhouse? If so, let them have enough of it, and instead of 100, let them at once build 600 workhouses? A million of money was now
 1169
 Lord John Russell  thought there was something in the proposition which had been calculated to excite considerable alarm. It should be considered, indeed it could not well be denied, that this Bill was only an experiment. The subject of Poor-law legislation was altogether new in Ireland, the whole constitution of the boards was altogether unknown; and the question was, how could they give that discretion in affording relief which had been suggested? It was proposed to give them the power of administering to any extent, under the orders of the Commissioners, out-door relief; and he, for one, could not help thinking there would be very great danger in such a state of things. The board of guardians would not be able to exercise any sound discretion; they would be forced into measures, even against their own opinions, which would lead to very alarming consequences. Let hon. Members reflect on the alarming amount of destitution in Ireland. It was difficult, if not impossible, to form any adequate or correct estimation of it. The Commissioners, however, had estimated the number of the destitute at no less than
 1168
 Lord J. Russell  said, it was now evident that a greater number of Members favoured the plan of having no land at all attached to the workhouses, than the proposition by which a large portion might be assigned for that purpose at the discretion of the Commissioners. He confessed that, for his part, he should feel better satisfied to let the clause remain as it was.
 Lord J. Russell  would not insist upon those words being retained in the clause.
 Mr. Lynch  opposed the amendment, and contended that the beneficial effects of the working of the English Poor-law Amendment Act, by the abolition of outdoor relief, ought to warn Irish Members from adopting, as this amendment proposed, a principle which had been productive of so much evil in this country.
 Mr. Lynch  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Kilkenny, and thought that the limitation should be fixed at fifty acres.
 Mr. Barron  said, that his proposition had been altogether misunderstood. His object was, that the men in the workhouse who were able to work should be employed in some useful labour, rather than be supported in idleness. He did not mean to assert that the labour of such men would be as valuable as that of men out of the workhouse. All he contended for was, that power should be given to the Commissioners and guardians to employ the able-bodied paupers who might from time to time be in the workhouse. He urged this as an experiment, which might be tried on a small scale, and if it did not succeed it could easily be given up. His great object was to prevent those vicious habits which must be engendered amongst men who were supported in idleness.
 Mr. Barron  proposed, after the words "hire any land," to omit the words "not exceeding twelve acres imperial measure,' from the 36th Clause.
 Mr. Roebuck  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether our negotiations with the
 1162
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the noble Lord would reconsider the subject, and not adopt the suggestion of employing the poor in the cultivation of land. He had seen experiments of that kind tried in Holland, and in every case in which money had been advanced by the government for the purpose of such experiment; the moment the money so advanced was expended the experiment failed.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  did not see how, in a country so agricultural as Ireland, the poor could be employed except on land. He would not limit the power of the Commissioners to the purchase of less than 100 acres.
 Mr. Sheil  thought it would be dangerous to admit, in the first instance, the principle of out-door relief. Why should they, by adopting this amendment, at once plunge into extremes, from which it would be impossible after to retrace their steps? Let them begin by a judicious system of in-door relief as proposed by Government, and if that were not found efficacious, in the course of two or three years they might have recourse to some further measures.
 Mr. Lennard  would not object to a discretionary power in the Commissioners
 1163
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that English Members who attempted to speak on this question were met by the cry "Oh! you know nothing of Ireland; you have not been there." If they alluded to the English Poor-laws, they were told that those laws were not applicable to Ireland. If they talked of the question of out-door relief in the abstract, they were advised not to trouble the House with abstract questions. He was ready to support the amendment, but he complained that it did not go far enough. Every impartial person who had investigated the matter, must be thoroughly convinced that it would be impossible to maintain a system for any length of time which denied all out-door relief to the poor. Even the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Cumberland, who was wedded to the new system, would not go so far as that. He knew that it would be said, as it had been said before, that out-door relief would be given in some
 1167
 Mr. H. G. Ward  admitted, that the system of indiscriminate out-door relief had been the cause of all the evils which the country had felt in respect to the administration of the Poor-laws; but he denied, that the state of Ireland was such as to admit of the workhouse system of relief alone. There was no analogy between the condition of the population of this country and the population of Ireland. Though the extent of destitution had, he admitted, been greatly exaggerated in the reports, still there was such an amount of destitution now as to make the relief proposed by this Bill wholly insufficient. Even admit 80,000 persons into the workhouses as proposed, and yet it would be totally incompetent for the relief of Ireland, and, therefore, whatever might be his objections theoretically to out-door relief in this country, still he could not see why any person could refuse to admit, that out-door relief ought to be introduced into Ireland. He had but little hope of any efficient system of Poor-laws being established in. Ireland, until means were first taken to make the proportion of employment more equal to the extent of the population.
 Viscount Palmerston  had to state, in answer to the questions put to him by the hon. and learned Member, that the negotiations between the two Governments on the subject of the seizure of the Vixen had ended. The result of those negotiations had been communicated to the owners, and that communication was, that upon a full consideration of the circumstances of the case, his Majesty's Government did not think themselves justified in making any further demand upon the Russian Government. He had no objection whatever to the production of the correspondence referred to, as it was extremely proper that it should be laid before Parliament; but with regard to the opinion of the King's Advocate, he was sure that hon. Members, especially hon. and learned Members, would see that he could not comply with the hon. and learned Member's wishes. The opinions of the law-officers of the Crown were always given confidentially. He must, therefore, object to that part of the motion.
 Mr. Young  entreated the hon. Member for Birmingham not to press his motion.
 Lord Stanley  objected to the 43rd Clause on the ground that it sanctioned the endowment by the State of 100 Roman Catholic clergymen in the various workhouses in Ireland. He therefore hoped it would be postponed with the view of devising some means of modifying its operation.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had heard nothing to convince him of the inexpediency of this clause. With respect to the observation of the noble Lord, that it would,  pro tanto,
 Sir George Sinclair  thought the noble Lord's argument struck at the root of the Protestant Establishment in Ireland. If the State paid the Roman Catholic clergy employed in workhouses, they might as well endow Roman Catholicism at once.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped the Government would persevere with the clause. The question was, whether the Roman Catholics confined in workhouses should be excluded altogether from the means of religious instruction and consolation in connexion with their own form of worship.
 Lord Stanley  maintained that the real question was, not whether the clergymen of any persuasion should be prohibited from visiting their flock in the workhouse, but whether, for the purpose of forcing the introduction of the Roman Catholic clergy into every workhouse in Ireland, they should establish a deviation from the English Bill, and compel the Commissioners to give them salaries unlimited in extent, and over which the rate-payers should have no control. In the English Bill, the appointment was vested in the Board of Guardians; but here a distinction was made in favour of the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland, which Parliament had not thought it necessary to make in favour of the Protestant clergy of England.
 Viscount Howick  contended, that the circumstances of the two countries were altogether different. The question was, whether religious instruction should not be
 1210
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he considered the amendment judicious, and he would not object the insertion of the words.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it would be advisable to postpone the clause.
 Mr. Wakley  thought the principle of this clause unconnected with any other involved in the Bill, and that it would have a most injurious bearing on the interesls of the medical profession. He moved that it be postponed.
 Lord J. Russell  should not be doing his duty if he were to enter into this discussion. The hon. Gentleman had come down to that House and made a speech of nearly three hours duration without having given any notice whatever of his intention to bring the subject before the House, and had proposed a resolution which was inconsistent with acts of Parliament and with solemn resolutions of that House which had been affirmed after various debates. He must therefore protest against such a course as entirely incompatible with public convenience and the state of public business; and if such a resolution were to be carried by surprise on any occasion, he was convinced it would only tend to the embarrassment of that House, give rise to further debate, and be reversive of decisions already come to by the House on the subject. For these reasons he should altogether decline to enter upon the question proposed by the hon. Gentleman. He had proceeded in the regular course by asking the House to go into Committee on the
 1206
 Lord J. Russell  rose to move the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into a Committee upon the Poor Relief (Ireland) Bill.
 Mr. Harvey  fully participated in the inconvenience which hon. Members felt would arise from the motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and he certainly did not think that the Government could be expected, on a subject of such grave importance, and without notice, to stand forward and combat the arguments and statements, some of which, perhaps, they did not understand, of so renowned a
 1207
 Mr. D. Barclay  said, he was unwilling to let the hon. Member's statement go forth without stating that in his opinion, it was very much exaggerated. The present state of embarrassment was, in a great degree, if not entirely, owing to extraordinary speculations—an evil which he thought would rectify itself.
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that had not the hon. Member for Birmingham brought this question forward, he (Sir G. Sinclair) would have considered it his duty to have done so, for the country never was in such a state, or so imperatively demanded the immediate interference of the Legislature. If there were hon. Members, therefore, in that House who believed that they would not be doing their duty to their constituents or the country, unless they called upon that House to interfere and endeavour to avert the additional evils to the manufacturing and labouring classes which were likely to flow from the present disastrous state of things, he did not see why they should be obstructed in that course, or told it was inconsistent. He thought, that the House should enter upon the consideration of the hon. Member's amendment.
 Mr. T. Attwood  rose to move an amendment. The House of Commons appeared to him to be like Nero fiddling whilst Rome was burning. They had been dabbling with small game for some months past, whilst a general conflagration had risen among the commercial and manufacturing classes, and was now extending its ravages rapidly among the agricultural and labouring classes. This was a state of things which appeared to him to demand an inquiry. In his mind, the welfare of Ireland was more implicated in the amendment which he was about to propose than it was in any measure which could be proposed for the relief of the poor in Ireland, much more than it was in the measure now before Parliament for their relief. The House had been told by the noble Lord, on a former evening, that it was wrong to consider the present distress of the country as anything comparable to the distress of 1825. Now, with all deference to the noble Lord, he must say, that the noble Lord had no experience of the distress of 1825, either commercially or politically. If the right hon. Member for Tarn worth were present, he would assure the noble Lord from the highest authority, that the sufferings of the mass of the people of England at that time were not half as great as at present. He
 1190 1191 d. d. l. l. l. 1192 Courier, Globe, Chronicle 1193 1194 ad libitum ad infinitum, Roars of laughter on both sides of the House. 1195 1196 pabulum 1197 1198 l. l. l. s l. s. 1199 l. l. l. 1200 l. l. l. l. l. 1201 l. l. l. The Times Chronicle l. l. l. 1202 l. 1203 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l 1204 1205
 Sir J. R. Reid  quite agreed in the observation which had fallen from the hon. Member for Sunderland. The present embarrassed state of affairs he believed to be nothing more than a passing cloud, and he had every hope that the country would shortly be relieved from the difficulties by which it was at present surrounded.
 Mr. Curteis  said, that it would be in the recollection of the House, that he had presented several petitions from a Mr. Mills, asking for a Select Committee on the ground that the promoters of Ste-phenson's line had given false evidence before the Committee on private bills. These persons were reported to have alleged, that they had complied with the standing orders in every particular. Now,
 1216
 Mr. Curteis  thought the Committee on this Bill had been very unfairly treated, and that they ought to be allowed to have the military engineer before them, to see whether he was a competent person to give an opinion in the matter.
 Mr. Curteis  said, as he saw the feeling of the House was against him, he would not give it the trouble of dividing.
 Mr. C. Barclay  opposed the motion. It would be highly inexpedient for the House to appoint a Committee, for it could lead to no result; and he did not, for a moment suppose, that the hon. Member would divide upon the question. The charge against the Ministry he considered to be totally unfounded; the course they had taken, was one which they had a perfect right to take.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  must say, with reference to the proposition of the hon. Member for Middlesex, he could scarcely believe that the hon. Member was in earnest in making this motion. The hon. Member for Middlesex said, that an engineer was appointed by order of the House to consider certain defined lines of Railway, and that it would be a hard case if they did not take that opportunity of admitting the other (Mills's) line, that its merits might also be ascertained. The hon. Member seemed to forget, that the standing orders stated the practice of the House with regard to private bills; and he seemed also to forget the grounds upon which these orders rested. They were for the protection of private property. Mills's line, as far as he could recollect, came in the ordinary course before the House, and was rejected because the parties had not complied with the standing orders. The subject was mooted in that House, and the House was of opinion that it was impossible to admit this line without contravening the standing orders, and that the parties ought to suffer for the negligence, or omission, or whatever else it was, of the persons who had the introduction of the Bill; and the House declared, that it was impossible to allow the Bill to proceed under these circumstances, unless they were prepared to set aside altogether the standing orders. It seemed to him utterly impossible that this line could be referred under any circumstances with the other two, to the military engineer. He would come, then, to make a few observations on what had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex, with reference to the motion which had been carried the other day, for referring those lines to an engineer. He must complain of the conduct of the hon. Member for Middlesex, who had not given himself any trouble whatever to understand this question, or of learning the course which he had recommended. He was not surprised, seeing clearly the hon. Member did not understand this question, that he should have charged him with inconsistency. He thought he could show
 1220 1221
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the motion of his hon. Friend would not answer the object he had in view, and he therefore hoped he would withdraw it, and allow his (Mr. Hume's) motion on the same subject to come on.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move, that all the documents Find surveys relating to Mills's
 1218
 Mr. Gillon  said, that if the course which had been adopted on this occasion by the Government, had been pursued two years ago, it would have saved upwards of two millions to the public. The present system was injurious to the public and disgraceful to the Legislature.
 Captain Pechell  must say, that it appeared to him that Ministers had acted partially; as he could not conceal from himself the fact, that they had lent themselves to a party against which a large majority of the Committee of that House had decided. The conduct of his Majesty's Ministers had excited an extraordinary sensation amongst his constituents; and if such conduct were continued, he must cease to give them that support which he had hitherto so strenuously, cheerfully, and
 1217
 Sir H. Verney  said, that in his opinion, so far from the Government deserving censure for the course they had adopted on this occasion, he was inclined to charge them with neglect in not having adopted some such course before. It was not, however, now too late; and he thought it was the duty of the Government immediately to appoint a Commission of Military and Scientific Engineers to inquire into the subject of all Railroads—a subject which involved such an enormous amount of property—and to report thereon to the House. This course would be much more creditable to the House, and more advantageous to the country.
 Mr. Goulburn : although there were many of the provisions of the bill in which he could not concur, should feel it his duty to support the second seading, with the view of so amending the measure in committee as to make it useful and practicable.
 Captain Berkeley  regarded this measure as a bill of pains and penalties. He did not believe that the sabbath could be made to be better observed by acts of Parliament.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  said, the object of this Bill was to get rid of a number of useless offices, and to create others that were necessary. He particularly objected to the power this Bill gave to appoint three masters more than were recommended by the Commissioners, and designated their appointment a judicial job. It was a subject of suspicion that the judges had been reconciled to the extensive reforms proposed in this Bill by the prospect of patronage that was held out to them. The judges were to have the appointment of five masters in each court, with salaries of 1,200 l.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  supported the Bill, and defended the appointment of the masters by the judges. The question was, whether those appointed were competent individuals or not. The five officers stood in the place of fifteen others, whose offices the Bill would abolish.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as regarded the number of masters, he had communicated with those best able to form an opinion, amongst whom were the Commissioners and the judges, and they were unanimously of opinion that the number necessary was the number named in the Bill.
 Mr. Poulett  Thomson would put it to the House whether it was advisable to read this Bill a second time. He considered the Bill so faulty in its details, that in his opinion, and he believed in the opinion of the House, it would be impossible ever to carry it into a law. When the hon. Member for Sheffield introduced this Bill, he took the liberty of recommending the hon. Member to avoid as much as possible entering into minute details in framing it. He was sorry that the hon. Member did not think it advisable to adopt that suggestion, as the Bill went into a series of details of the most extraordinary nature, and which were calculated to destroy the whole mercantile law of this country, and o establish in its place a new and arbitrary power. The measure was of a character which he was sure could not receive the consent of the House, and he hoped the hon. Member would not press the second reading to a division. If the Bill went into Committee, he did not think that the Committee could reduce it to such a shape as to induce the House to agree to it. In the first place the Bill established a very expensive marine board, with power much beyond that of the
 1223
 Mr. Ingham  did not think that the right hon. Gentleman had shown sufficient reasons to induce the House to reject the Bill on the second reading. The right hon. Gentleman admitted that there were parts of the Bill which he approved of; why refuse, then, to go into Committee, when those parts of the Bill which were objectionable might be left out, and those clauses only retained which should be considered judicious and reasonable.
 Mr. Hume  begged the House to recollect that this Bill arose out of a long inquiry before a Committee of the House. If it were only for Clause 13, which established inquiry in case of shipwreck, he thought the Bill ought to be allowed to go into Committee. Many persons were yearly shipped from our shores in vessels wholly unseaworthy, and hundreds were
 1224
 Mr. G. F. Young  agreed with the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, that the causes of shipwreck and examination of masters were objects that well deserved inquiry; but the present Bill was such a legislative monstrosity, and so utterly incapable of being worked out with any beneficial result, that he thought it would be only wasting the time of the House and holding out delusive expectations if they were to agree to the second reading. He would therefore move, that the Bill be read a second time that clay six months.
 Mr. A. Chapman  seconded the amendment, and said, that he trusted that the House would not allow itself to be led away by fanciful speculations which were wholly at variance with experience.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that it seemed to be generally agreed that the principle of this Bill was good, and that something should be done, the only difference being as to certain clauses. But surely the necessity of amending certain clauses did not justify the House in rejecting the Bill altogether. These clauses might be discussed and amended in Committee, and, therefore, if only for the sake of humanity, he hoped the House would agree to the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Labouchere  begged to say, that the hon. and gallant Officer was mistaken in supposing that his right hon. Friend (Mr. P. Thomson) agreed to the principle of this Bill. He certainly approved of the object of the Bill, but the principle and the object were distinct things. He (Mr. Labouchere) conceived the principle of the Bill to be a vexatious interference with the shipping interest of the country, to which he was most decidedly opposed. Whilst, therefore, he also approved of the object of the Bill, he thought if the House sanctioned its second reading they would be spreading alarm among the shipping interest; and that if the Bill were carried into effect it would inflict a great blow upon that interest, and at the same time be highly in-
 1225
 Mr. Buckingham  said, that the subject of shipwrecks had been referred to a Select Committee last year, of which he had the honour of being appointed chairman, and the result of that Committee's inquiry was to prove that upwards of three millions sterling of property and a thousand lives were annually sacrificed in the present state of the shipping of this country. It appeared also to the Committee that if a better system were to be established, at least two-thirds of that property and half of the sacrifice of life might be saved for the future. If the Members of his Majesty's Government would promise to take the matter upon themselves, as they had done in the case of the emigration ships, be should be satisfied to leave it in their hands, for he could not see why the sailors of the British merchant service were not entitled to the same amount of protection which had been extended to emigrants. But if it were proposed to apply the benefit of inquiry in cases only where loss of vessels and of life had already occurred, he should disagree from that proposal as far from an efficient one; prevention in his mind was far better than any  post facto
 Lord Arthur Lennox  regretted the introduction of this bill, but, at the same time, having no doubt of the sincerity of the intentions of the hon. Baronet, he should vote for the second reading of this bill, though he did not concur in many of the clauses, which, indeed, on the contrary, he held to be most objectionable.
 Major Beauclerk : could he regard the bill as a measure calculated to make the people more virtuous or more happy he would support it; but believing it to have a contrary tendency, he had no alternative left but to meet it by a direct negative.
 Major Cumming Bruce  expressed a
 1241
 Mr. Finch  said, that the seventh day had been set apart before the time of Moses, and the first day had been kept by the disciples of our Lord, and was consecrated by his second appearance, and the appearance of the Holy Spirit. It was the day on which the Apostolic Christians held their meetings—it was, emphatically speaking, the Lord's day— it was the property of the Lord, was consecrated to the Lord, and ought to be held in more sanctity. The early Christian Fathers, Ignatius, the companion of the Apostle John, Justin Martyr, and Irenæus, the disciple of Polycarp, who was the disciple of St. John, all insisted upon the Lord's day being kept holy, and made the distinction between that and the Jewish Sabbath. He would not then enter into the question of what were works of necessity and what were not, nor would he pretend to say whether on that point the Roman Catholics, the German Protestants, the English Protestants, or the Scottish Protestants were right. His own feelings leant more to the Protestants of Scotland. This, however, was debatable ground, and as the details of the Bill might be settled in Committee he should cordially support the second reading.
 Mr. Hardy  supported the principle of the bill, which went to protect every man in the observance of the sabbath. The clauses of the bill which would not operate equally and fairly, he would abandon. The bill went to prevent any man who employed another from compelling him to work on the sabbath day.
 Mr. Plumptre  was understood to say that there existed in that House a great, perhaps, a morbid sensibility as regarded discussions upon religious subjects, a feeling in which he did not participate, and the existence of which in the minds of others should not deter him from expressing frankly and fearlessly the views which in his conscience he believed to be consonant with the doctrines of the Christian religion, and with the duties and responsibility which he conceived to have devolved upon the Members of that House. Whatever might be the sentiments prevalent within those walls, he did not for a moment hesitate to say, that there existed out of doors a very strong opinion that the Legislature of a nation enjoying so many and such distinguished temporal blessings lay under a deep responsibility to observe, and as far as temporal authority could go, to enforce, the injunctions of the sacred Scriptures; and he
 1228 1229
 Mr. Roebuck  hoped the House would permit him to compliment the hon. Baronet on the approximation to something like fairness. The bill as it originally stood, applied to the poor, but not to the rich; but the case was now somewhat altered. He must, therefore, compliment the hon. Member for having included in the provisions of the bill the rich; for if the bill passed no man could travel on the Lord's-day; no man could use any cattle to travel further than the church door. So far they were about to conform to something like fairness. The hon. Baronet seemed startled at the proposition. [Sir  A. Agnew, 1230 1231 1232 1233 1234
 Mr. Brotherton  contended that the due observance of the sabbath was for the good of man on a civil, moral, and religious principle; but he did not think that this measure was calculated to promote the object in view. He was satisfied that nothing was ever gained by working on the sabbath, and he slated this from thirty years' experience in manufactures. If it were impressed on the minds of the people that it was not their interest to work on Sunday, he was sure that they would not do so; but the example should be set them by the rich.
 Mr. Borthwick  would support the motion for the second reading of the Bill. He wished to see what the House could do, though he much doubted the possibility of framing a law which should be effectual in obtaining the end sought for. Many of the clauses must operate very unequally as in the case of the Zoological-gardens in the Regent's-park, which were opened on the sabbath to subscribers. Many of those who supported this Bill frequented those gardens on the sabbath, the day on which the poor were comparatively excluded— and this place of resort was a second Almack's. He believed it to be an absurdity to imagine that the people were to be compelled by any legislative enactment to observe the sabbath, but nevertheless he would support the original motion.
 Mr. Potter  thought it would be a mere waste of time to go into committee upon the Bill. Four years ago, when a similar bill was allowed to go into committee, it came out in such a shape that the hon. Baronet (Sir A. Agnew) himself was obliged to vote against it. What hope could there be of a different result in the case of the present measure, supposing it were allowed to advance to another stage? He did not believe that measures of this description were calculated to promote a better observance of the sabbath.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  stated that so far from the Sunday being well observed in many parts of the metropolis, he knew that in the district with which he was connected, namely, Spitalfields, the great proportion of shops were open on Sunday. All were agreed that the sabbath should be observed, and therefore should put a stop to Sunday trading, which was one of the main objects of the bill. According to the present state of things, a man who was anxious to keep the sabbath holy was often obliged to act against his conscience and violate it, because his neighbour kept open his shop. He did not approve of many parts of this bill, but should vote for the second reading.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had supported the introduction of the bill, because he was not one of those who were wholly adverse to any legislation upon the subject. But upon a subsequent examination of its provisions, he was bound to say that there was not one of them to which he could give his consent, except perhaps that which related to Sunday trading. He should therefore oppose the second reading.
 Mr. Wakley  was astonished that rich men should thus venture to try to shut poor men up in their habitations on the seventh day of the week. Although four hon. Members had supported the Bill, not one had the manliness to state what practices they wished to prevent. Did they desire to prevent the people from drinking ginger-beer, or from eating ginger-bread on Primrose-hill or on Kensington-common, on Sunday? It was evident that the supporters of the Bill had the organ of veneration developed in an extraordinary degree, but that they were sadly deficient in the organs of observation and causality. The organ of veneration was not generally so fully developed in this country as it was in the hon. Baronet. Let those who supported this measure and those who opposed it refer to the authority of Scripture, and let them ponder on the feeling which it inculcated. The hon. Member would read the 8th and other verses of the 5th chapter of the gospel of St. John. Those pas-
 1238
  Sir Andrew Agnew  moved the second reading of the Lord's-day Observance Bill.
 Mr. H. L. Bulwer  did full justice to the intentions of the hon. Baronet who brought forward this bill; but it was necessary to consider, not the intentions with which a bill was brought forward, but the practical results of it; and he contended that, whatever might be the intentions of the hon. Baronet, the result of his bill, or of any bill on the same subject, must be inequality and partiality; because the state of society which governed all laws would not allow the same interference with the enjoyments of the rich, who had establishments of their own, and those of the poor, who had no such establishments. As to the number of petitions, he was in no way surprised; because, at all times, numbers of men had been found anxious to thrust their consciences down the consciences of other people. Hundreds and thousands of persons had assisted at the massacre of St. Bartholomew, and had been applauded even by their own priests for doing so. They were pious men of their time, and had followed the dictates of their consciences. In fact, no persecution had ever taken place which might not be justified on the ground that it was agreeable to the consciences of other men. But legislation of this kind was not only
 1239 1240
 Mr. Ward  thought the noble Lord had misconceived the hon. Member for Bath, who did not object that there should be one day in the week when rich and poor should be released from business. Of the many who objected to the Bill there were none who were opposed to a day of rest. What they objected to was, that it attempted to legislate for the Christian Sabbath on Jewish principles. An hon. Member might if he pleased endeavour to apply certain regulations to the observance of the Sabbath; but then he had no right
 1236 1237
 The Solicitor-General  wished before the House divided, to state in a few words his objection to the present proposition. He could see no possibility of drawing a line in any other mode than this — that the individual who should receive a direct pecuniary interest in the private business of the House, should be excluded; but that he who did not, should not be excluded. The distinction which the hon. Member wished to make, was too subtle and fine, and would only shift the difficulty to some other case not precisely similar to that of his (the Solicitor-General's) hon. Colleague, the Member for Penryn (Mr. Freshfield). For himself, he certainly was not disposed to differ from the hon. Member for Bath on this subject, in thinking that there should be no line drawn; but, at all events, he was opposed to that which was now attempted to be drawn by the hon. Member's motion.
 Viscount Sandon  thought, that a Member of that House might pursue a course of policy which had been adopted to a greater or less extent by all nations, and attempt to renew observances which through the lapse of time had fallen somewhat into disuse, without subjecting himself to the charge of arrogance, bigotry, and superstition, or being taunted with acting upon unfair political motives. The hon. Member who had just sat down had assumed that he was the only true expounder of the doctrines of Christianity, and perhaps the Christian lecture which he read them upon humility would furnish the best test of his fitness for the office he had undertaken. Those who favoured the Bill had the law of the country with them in favour of paying due respect to the seventh or the Sabbath day—and when they endeavoured to extend a principle already admitted the hon. Member for Bath, as if speaking  ex cathedra, 1235
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  presented a Petition from a Mr. Staple, the Solicitor to the Portland Cemetery Bill, who complained that the hon. Member for Marylebone (Sir S. Whalley) had, after the Bill had passed
 1248
 Mr. Wallace  seconded the motion,
 Mr. Staple  appeared at the bar, and stated, in answer to questions:—That he recollected the proviso proposed by Mr.
 1249
 Mr. Sutton  was ordered to attend but not being present the subject was postponed.
 Mr. Justice Lawrence , it will be seen, rested the claim to protection on higher and more extensive ground than that of the usage or any special privilege of Parliament. He contended for the doctrine, that true accounts of proceedings in Parliament and in courts of law, were for the public advantage, and therefore entitled to universal protection. He contended for the impunity of unauthorised parties who
 1276 a fortiori v 1277 v 1278
 Mr. Justice Gould  said:—,"I entirely concur in opinion with my Lord Chief Justice that this court has no cognizance of contempts or breach of privilege of the House of Commons: they are the only judges of their own privileges; and that they may be properly called judges appears in 4 Inst. 47, where my Lord Coke says, an alien cannot be elected of the Parliament, because such a person can hold no place of judicature." "This court cannot know the nature and power of the proceedings of the House of Commons. It is founded on a different law. The 'Lex et Consuetudo Parliamenti' is known to Parliament men only." habeas corpus, 1279 habeas corpus dernier ressort v 1280 à priori, v 1281
 Mr. Pemberton  said, he should be extremely glad, concurring as he did in the vote proposed on the other side of the House, if he could have avoided troubling the House with any observations upon the question; but having the misfortune, and a great misfortune he felt it to be, to differ in many particulars from those for whose sentiments and opinions he entertained the highest reverence and respect, with the feelings which he did entertain on this subject, he should consider it a cowardly dereliction of his duty, if he abstained on the present occasion from stating those feelings and views to the House. He should do so with the utmost doubt of the propriety of his own opinions, and with the most profound respect for those who differed from him; but right or wrong, he had formed his opinions, after much deliberation, and after the most attentive consideration of the case. It was not now a question whether a Report of the proceedings of a Committee of the House of Commons, published under its authority, was, or was not, a privileged publication; but the question now was, were the resolutions which that House had thought fit to adopt, resolutions not confined to the publication of papers, but involving a general assertion of privilege, to be followed up to all their consequences? Was the House prepared to deny to the courts of justice, directly or incidentally, the authority to discuss and decide questions of law involving the privilege, or would it consent, as his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, had proposed, to submit this species of law for the decision of the law authorities? It was a very different question whether those Reports were privileged publications, and whether it was the order for publication by the House of Commons, that afforded an indemnity to those who published them. They might be privileged publications, he neither affirmed nor denied it; he gave no opinion on the subject; but
 1285 Stanley 1286 1287 v v v 1288 1289 v 1290
 Lord John Russell , after the able and, as he thought, unanswerable, arguments, which the right hon. Baronet had delivered to the House upon the subject, felt that it would not be otherwise than presumption in him if he were to enter again into the question, and to go over the various points upon which he thought the privilege of the House firmly rested; but, at the same time, not having taken any part in the former discussion, he thought it would not be right that he should allow the question to come to a vote on the present occasion, without, in a few words, expressing the opinion which, after some study of the subject, he was disposed, certainly with great diffidence, but still with unshaken firmness, to entertain. He entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet that this privilege was essential to the performance of the duties of the House. He thought that the whole question in dispute was settled on the ground stated by Lord Ellen borough on the last occasion, that the matter came under the consideration of a court of law, in consequence of a resolution passed by that House in reference to the case of "Burdett  v 1282 1283 1284
 Mr. George F. Young  had not adverted to the Bill of Exclusion; though he could not put his historical recollections in competition with those of the right hon. Baronet, he was still well aware that the Bill of Exclusion was not passed in the year 1688. He had only alluded to the resolutions of the Houses of Lords and Commons.
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that though he had listened with great delight to the speech of the right hon. Member for Tam-worth, he took a different view of the rules by which the practice of that House, regarding the publication of its proceedings, had been uniformly directed. The very House of Commons which exercised the most important of all functions—an alteration in the right of succession to the
 1305
 Mr. Poulter  thought his hon. Friend had entirely misunderstood the observations of the Attorney-General, who did not propose that the privileges of that House should be submitted to the consideration of the judges; he proposed only by pleading to inform the judges that the petitioners had acted by order of the House, conceiving such to be the most prudent and temperate mode of communicating with their Lordships relative to the claims of that House on the subject of its privileges. In that sense only could he agree with the Attorney-General; because, if the claim were not allowed, then he thought it would be the duty of the House to proceed in a different manner. If such a case arose, he trusted the Attorney-General would not hesitate to recommend the proper course, a course for which there was abundant of precedents, but for which he
 1264 malus animus? 1265 primâ facie
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the Attorney-General whether he meant to persist in the resolutions which he had proposed? If there were any doubts as to the propriety of persisting in the resolutions which they carried the other evening, the speech of the right hon. Baronet set the matter at rest. It was monstrous to think of their going back. All the cases that had been urged by the right hon. Baronet, and by the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, must justify the Attorney-General in the view which he originally took of the case. He did not wish that the privileges of that House should be submitted to the opinion of the House of Lords. It would not only be degrading, but it could only be done with a bad grace. They, therefore, had much better maintain and protect their own privileges. If there were one privilege more than another of importance, it was the publication of their Reports and other papers. If they abstained from the publication of the results of their own inquiries, it would be perfectly useless entering on them. This privilege was essential for the maintenance of popular rights and the independence of the House of Commons. The truth was, that this was an attempt to drag them through the mud in a very unpleasant manner.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe  would not oppose the motion of the hon. and learned Member; but he intended to give it his most cordial support, and he could not help congratulating the House on what appeared to him to be the virtual abandonment of their privileges which they so hastily adopted the other night. The noble Lord said, that it was not to be supposed that the House had abandoned anything connected with its privileges. If the noble Lord, and those who acted with him, were not afraid of their hasty proceedings the other night, he never saw before such a capital imitation of fear. On Tuesday, with a great sound of war, they brought forward their resolutions, and on Thursday night he found the following language was affixed to a petition then presented, "Stockdale  v in forma pauperis, "That by the law and privilege of Parliament, this House has the sole and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of its privileges; and that the institution or prosecution of any action, suit, or other proceeding, for the purpose of bringing
 1299 v
 Mr. T. Duncombe  thought the threats held out ought to be inquired into, and also the conduct of the Clerk to the Committee. He therefore moved that Mr. Staple (the person from whom the petition emanated) and Mr. Rose, the Clerk to the Committee, be called to the bar.
 The Attorney-General , in reply, said, that if the hon. Member for Tynemouth
 1306 Sergeant Wilde 1307
 The Attorney-General  has reviewed the several proceedings to which this House might have recourse in consequence of the actions of which notice has been given, and the difficulties which would arise were any one of them preferred as an alternative to that of pleading. Of these difficulties an unprofessional man is scarcely a competent judge. I only wish they had been foreseen, and carefully considered by those Members of the Select Committee who belong to the profession, and are so eminent for their legal acquirements, because they ought to have been pointed out in the Report of that Committee as important elements in the consideration of any practical measure to be adopted for the maintenance of our privileges; and if pointed out, and traced in their several bearings and consequences, might have induced the House to modify at least the resolutions which have been voted in regard to the practical assertion of the privilege in question. 1267 1268 1269 1270 ex parte 1271 1272 1273 1274 v 1275
 The Attorney-General  rose to bring under the notice of the House the case of Messrs. Nicholls and Messrs. Hansard, which was a subject of great importance and delicacy, and he had no hesitation in saying, that he felt it to be one of very great difficulty. But he had this consolation, that the House had been involved in it, not by any step voluntarily taken by themselves, but by the conduct of others. It was now indispensably necessary, that the House should make a stand, and give directions as to the course which should be pursued, in order to defend what he considered one of their most important and most undoubted privileges. The House in so doing was making a struggle for the benefit of the public, not for any benefit or advantage derivable to individual members from the privilege in question; they were fighting for the interest of the country at large. They were contending that the public should not be deprived of information, and of the advantage of the diffusion of knowledge. He owned, at the same time, that he felt considerable difficulty in recommending any course for the House to adopt in reference to the petitions of Messrs. Nicholls and Messrs. Hansard. He begged, first of all, to say, that he adhered most firmly to the resolu-
 1250 v 1251 1252 in statu quo, v 1253 The Parliamentary Debates, et infra. "Mr. D. Giddy: There was then only one mode remaining, and that was, to plead to the actions, and let the parties sued show to the court that the acts complained of were done in consequence of the privileges of that House.—The Attorney-General (Sir V. Gibbs): The House was the sole and ultimate judge of its own privileges, and of their extent. No court had any jurisdiction to decide on their existence and extent. They were to be judged by this House alone. No other body had the power to decide. Not but that their privileges might be incidentally brought before another court, which court, however, could not look to their privilege, but to their decisions upon them. It was by these that the court would he bound to decide. He felt not a doubt that the judge, on reading the Speaker's plea, would refuse to listen to the action.—Mr. Ponsonby: In proceeding to state his opinion, he should ground what he had to offer upon two principles—the first was, that each Hou3e of Parliament was, in its respective capacity, the sole judge of its own privileges; the sole judge of what those privileges are; the sole judge of the extent to which those privileges are to be carried; and the sole judge of the manner in which such privileges are to be exercised. It followed, by consequence, that no Other court in this country had the right to interpose their opinion upon what was the privilege of Parliament—the nature, the extent, or the exercise of it. The other proposition which he would lay down as a principle was, that whenever the court of Parliament, no matter which House of Parliament, had declared a matter to be privilege, that all other courts throughout the country were bound to pay respect and implicit obedience to that declaration." "For as every court of justice hath laws and customs for its direction, some to the civil and canon, some to the common law, others their own peculiar laws and customs, so the high court of Parliament hath also its own peculiar law, called the  lex et consuetudo Parliamenti, suis propriis regulis et consuetudinibus consistit sua lex, secundum legem et consuetudinem Parliamenti, "The maxims upon which they proceed, together with the method of proceeding, rest
 1254 1255 1256 1257 v
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he did not rise to oppose the motion; though that motion was inconsistent, not only with the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman (that was his own concern), but with the resolutions of the House itself. He did not, however, on that account object to the motion; neither, on the other hand, did he now propose to rescind those resolutions; but he trusted that the time was not distant when such motions would be needless, by the House rescinding such resolutions. The speech of the hon. and learned Member was, from beginning to end, a re-statement of all the extravagant claims which had ever been urged in support of the privileges of that House; and ended with the "lame and impotent" conclusion, that the House should submit this matter to the decision of
 1258 1259 v 1260 1261 1262 locus penitentiœ 1263
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would, in the course of tomorrow, go again to the library, and refresh his historical reminiscences, he would find that he had been connecting two circumstances which were distinct and separate. He would find that the resolutions of 1688 and the Bill of Exclusion were separate and distinct transactions.
 Sir Robert Peel :—Mr. Speaker, I have not heard without great regret the opinion of the Attorney-General, that it is advisable, on account of the technical and legal difficulties which would accompany any other course of proceeding, to direct the servants of this House to plead to the actions that have been brought against them. I had hoped that this House possessed sufficient power to vindicate by its own exclusive authority, without the aid or recognition of any extrinsic jurisdiction, those privileges which are absolutely essential to the performance of its proper functions, and even to its existence as an independent branch of the Legislature. I was aware of the pre-
 1266 v
 Sir Samuel Whalley  thought that he had great reason to complain of the course adopted on the present occasion. The persons promoting this Bill being his constituents, they had begged him to take charge of it. He had moved accordingly the first and second reading, but it was not till after the second reading that he was aware that it gave to the promoters of it a roving commission to establish a Cemetery anywhere within ten miles of the metropolis. The hon. Member for Finsbury had called for a plan of the site, and on the plan being produced it was found that the intention of the promoters was to wrest Primrose-hill from the public, a place to which they had had access for time immemorial. The insertion of a clause was then moved in these words:—"Provided that nothing in this act do allow the said company to use Primrose-hill for any of the purposes of this company." He had moved to add the words "or any part thereof." He afterwards found that these words, though he had believed them to have been adopted by the Committee had not been inserted, and applied to the Clerk to the Committee in consequence. He told the promoters of the Bill, that if the words were not there he should oppose the Bill. Had the matter stopped there he should not have had so much ground of complaint; but the promoters of the Bill had been to him, threatening to present a petition against him unless he would withdraw his opposition, and agree to support the Bill. His reply was, that the presenting of the petition would not weigh with him, nor induce him to withdraw his opposition.
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  concurred in the course which was proposed to be taken, although, notwithstanding the authorities quoted in support of the precedent referred to by the noble Lord, he did not think that it was the best mode that could be adopted. He had not found in any case where the Speaker had written to inform the judge of the privileges of that House, that the letter of the Speaker had been thought improper, or had failed, unless in one instance, to have due weight. He thought, however, that it was a matter of great importance that the House should come, if it possibly could, to a unanimous vote on that question. The question, then, was whether the proposed course of proceeding were con-
 1300 1301 1302 1303 1304 res Integra,
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that having spoken on a former occasion, it was not his wish again to address the House; but there were some points which had been stated by his hon. and learned Friend that called for observation. Upon an ordinary legal question he should feel great difficulty and diffidence in putting himself in competition with his hon. and learned Friend; but he confessed that when he heard it stated that whenever the question of privilege had been raised it had been uniformly decided by the Courts of Westminster-hall against the House of Commons, and that the very last instance in which an action was brought, and in which such a decision was given, was the action instituted by Mr. Fox, he (Mr. Wynn) could not refrain offering a few-remarks on the present occasion. He could hardly believe that there was any man who had ever practised in a court of law, but must know that the case of Mr. Fox was as different as possible from that of a question of privilege. Mr. Fox's action was an action against the returning officer for refusing votes; it was a statutable action, sanctioned by repeated Acts of Parliament, and which fixed the returning officer with certain penalties in certain cases? Could that be said to be a case at common law? Was it the same as the case of the Queen and Patey? As early as the twenty-third year of Henry 6th, an action was given against the sheriff for making a false return
 1291 1292 1293 1294 1295 1296
 Viscount Howick  was as unwilling as the hon. Member for Middlesex to go back from the resolutions they came to on a former evening, and for proofs of the propriety of persisting in them, he would refer to the unanswerable and admirable argument of the right hon. Baronet opposite. That they ought to maintain their privileges was perfectly clear, and that they ought also to be the interpreters of their privileges was perfectly clear. He concurred with the Attorney-General on this simple ground, that there was a precedent as to the course of proceeding, and this case would be found to be much stronger than the present. The case he alluded to was the action brought against the Speaker by Sir F. Burdett, and then the House adopted a similar course of proceeding to that
 1297 "It appears that in several instances of actions commenced in breach of the privileges of this House, the House has proceeded by commitment, not only against the party, but against the solicitor and other persons concerned in bringing such actions; but your Committee think it right to observe, that the commitment of such party, solicitor, or other persons, would not necessarily stop the proceedings in such actions; that as the particular ground of action does not necessarily appear upon the suit or upon the declaration, the court before which such action is brought cannot stay the suit, or give judgment against the plaintiff, till it is informed by due course of legal proceeding that such action is brought for a thing done by order of the House; and it therefore appears to your Committee, that even though the House should think fit to commit the solicitor or other person concerned in commencing these actions, yet it will still be expedient that the House should give leave to the Speaker and the Sergeant to appear to the said actions, and to plead to the same, for the purpose of bringing under the knowledge of the court the authority under which they acted; and, if the House should agree with that opinion, your Committee submits to the House whether it would not be proper that directions should be given by this House for defending the Speaker and the Sergeant against the said actions." 1298
 Dr. Lushington  said, Sir, I have nothing to do with the motives which may have actuated the hon. and learned Member for Bath in making the speech which we have just heard; nor is the effect which such a speech can have on the country to me a matter of great concern. If, also, the object of the hon. Gentleman's speech had been merely to inculpate his
 1354 1355 1356 in toto 1357
 Colonel Thompson  said, a fat soldier once presented himself to a reviewing general, and said, "I am the skeleton of the hundred-and-first regiment." It might have occurred to the hon. and learned Gentleman who just sat down, that the seconder of the amendment, however closely he might approach to the position of that skeleton, was at all events likely to make an exception to the assertion that there was nobody who joined in the opinions of the Mover. He must state, therefore, openly and fairly, that he coincided entirely in the principle of everything that had been said by the Member for Bath. Their complaint was (and he would willingly use the dual number if he was speaking Greek or any language that possessed it), that from the earliest period when it was practicable to form any judgement of the practice of the Ministry, the Ministers had adopted a
 1358
 Mr. O'Connell  was at a loss to know whether the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was serious or not. He made one allusion—that of letting out the fire
 1359 1360
 The Earl of Darlington  said, the object of the Bill was to enable the rector to let a portion of the glebe on building leases; and agreeably to the wishes of the inhabitants of Wigan, the Committee had resolved that space should be left vacant for the recreation and enjoyment to which the townspeople had long been accustomed on these common lands, a part of which should continue to be held on the same tenure as at present, and not be liable to be built upon. The clause, if passed, would, in his opinion, completely establish the right of that House to interfere in the disposition of private property. The parish of Wigan was a large one, but yet he had never heard that additional ministers were wanted by the parishioners. If any such necessity were proved to exist, he should have no hesitation in saying, that the rector ought to pay those ministers out of his own pocket. In his opinion no private property would be safe if Parliament were to give the power embodied in this clause, to which he trusted the House would never be brought to accede.
 Mr. Hindley  did not want to injure any clergyman connected with the Established Church—but when he found a Bill of this nature before Parliament, which sought to double the income of the rector, in a place where 18,000 persons had been proved to be utterly unprovided with
 1333
 Mr. E. Ellis  said, that there had never been an inclosure of the property hitherto, and there was a well in the centre of the ground sought to be enclosed, which was of great use to the inhabitants of Wigan, who had strongly petitioned against the Bill, and the only person that would be benefitted was the rector.
 Mr. Hume  said, that on Monday a Committee was to be appointed to consider of the best means of increasing the value of Church-lands by a different manner of leasing. The Bill then before the House prejudged that question; he therefore moved that the question be postponed till that day six months.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  regretted the absence of his Majesty's Ministers. The House appeared to be studiously kept in the dark on the question. It was admitted that the rector of Wigan already enjoyed an income exceeding 2,000 l l
 Mr. Hindley  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, whether it would be in order then to move that the title of the Bill be altered.
 The Speaker  answered in the negative.
 Mr. Hindley : The question was, whether the House would allow this money to go to the increase of the luxury of any individual.
 Mr. Baines  had a return by which it appeared that the gross income was 2.823 l l 1334
 Mr. Roebuck : There is a great deal of hypocrisy in this House. I see the right hon. Member for Cambridge opposite. I want to meet that right hon. Gentleman on this matter. I hear very often on the opposite side of the House great statements made about accommodation for the worship of God. I heard this week, on Wednesday night, great statements made about the necessity of worshipping God on the Sabbath-day, and now we have in opposition to the worship of God a certain sum of money to be put into the pocket of the rector. And now we shall find the value of certain protestations by the vote that will be given on this occasion. Which will carry it, worship or the parson's pocket? The parson's pocket, if I understand it. You talk about worship when it is for your own peculiar party purposes, but when there is a question of whether you are to have money or worship, you are all for money. The question is this:—a certain clergyman, having about 2,000 l
 Lord Stanley  said, the rector and patron of the living of Wigan applied for powers to build on a certain portion of land connected with a living, and also for liberty to mine for coal under the same land. A complaint was, however, made that there was on the land a public well, and that several public footpaths crossed it, which it would be unjust to shut up. These points were referred to the two hon. Members for Wigan, and an arrangement was made,
 1335 l l
 Mr. Wakley  said, when the question of Church-rates was brought forward, hon. Gentlemen opposite said, they had no objection to Church property being improved, but that the increase should be applied to procure religious instruction for those destitute of it. Now, what were hon. Gentlemen opposite doing? Instead of securing the increased funds for those destitute of instruction, they were handing the funds over to a fat rector.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, if there was a great opposition got up at the last stage of the Bill, it was because the Bill was a job, carried through so privately that those who are not locally acquainted with Wigan, or with the parties, knew that its object was to convert public property—Church property—to private purposes. He should move an amendment to the title of the Bill, in order to show that those who opposed the Bill would not lend themselves to private Committee jobbing. He begged to move to leave out the last four words of the Bill, and to insert these words—"To enable the rector and patron of the same to increase their private property out of Church property, which was much needed for spiritual purposes in districts which were represented to be in a state of spiritual destitution."
 Mr. Hume  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Hindley  would move that the debate be adjourned to Monday.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  objected to the Bill, upon the ground that it did not go sufficiently far to meet the wishes or the expectations of the people of Ireland, who, as their numerous petitions strongly intimated, would not be satisfied with any thing short of a total abolition of tithe. They would not be content with any measure unless it completely released them from all assessment for the support of the Established Church. They were told indeed by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny that he would accept of this measure as an instalment. He (Mr. Crawford) wished to know whether it was to be an instalment or not? Was it to be a final settlement of the question, or was Ireland to be agitated again upon the subject? In opposing the second reading of the Bill he was acting conscientiously, and from a deep sense of duty, and not from any desire to impede the measure of his Majesty's Government, whose great services to Ireland he most readily acknowledged. He considered that the Bill was unjust in all its principles, and delusory in all its details. He begged, therefore, to move as an amendment that this Bill be read a second time this day six months.
 Mr. D. Browne  felt that it was a duty he owed to himself and to his country to second the amendment of his hon. Friend. He did it reluctantly, not because he denied the justice, or the policy, or the practicability of a total abolition of tithes, for he was a strenuous advocate for their total abolition, although he denied that this Bill would abolish tithes, or would in any way tend to allay the angry feelings of the people of Ireland, but he did it
 1371 1372
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it was obvious that the Bills which the present Government had successively introduced upon the subject of the Irish Church had had to stand between two classes of objections—between the objections of those who thought that too much was taken from the Church, and of those who thought that too little was taken away, or at least, that too much was left. It was obvious—without stopping to inquire which of these respective parties were most in the right—whether those who thought that too much was taken away, or those who thought that too little was taken; or whether it was for the Government, at least upon this subject, to indulge itself in the opinion that it had happily pursued the "just middle"—it was obvious, he said, that the struggle on this question was not between the Government and the friends of the voluntary system, or the "sons of liberty," which it seemed was the right way to term them, but between the Government and those who were entirely opposed to any alteration of the church revenues. For this struggle, probably, before very long the stage would be cleared, and a decided course taken. For that occasion, whenever it should arise, he thought himself justified in reserving the discussion of those points which appeared to be the serious and really practical part of the matter they were called upon to consider. With respect, then, to the other side of the question—that which was represented on this occasion by his two hon. Friends, the mover and seconder of the amendment, and which rested, as it appeared to him upon the ground that tithes ought to be completely abolished, that no form of religion in Ireland ought to receive a preference from the State, and that the voluntary system ought to be established—he had only to observe, that whether that system possessed any merits or not, or whether the arguments by which it was defended were sound or not, such were not the views and intentions with which his Majesty's present Government had entered upon office. Such were not the views and intentions which they had ever professed, or which they now entertained; and such above all, were not the views and intentions with
 1373 1374
 Mr. Shaw  admitted, that it was desirable that there should be a transfer of the payment of tithes from the occupiers to the owners of land; but he thought that it was too much to take thirty per cent. from the clergy for the additional security they would obtain under the altered arrangement. This, however, was rather a matter of detail than principle. That part of the Bill, however, which opened all commutations of tithes that had been entered on during the last thirty years, was most objectionable, as it would lead to the most expensive, and, indeed, endless litigation. He also thought that it was an act of great injustice to the Irish clergy to make them pay the loan of a million and the arrears of interest which were proposed in this bill; for the money was given to them with the sanction of the House in lieu of the tithes. He also objected to the Commissioners being enabled to reduce the value of benefices below 300 l
 Lord Stanley  would make a few remarks with respect to his taking a different course from the hon. Member for Dundalk, and also state the chief points of objection to the Bill on which he intended to take the sense of the House when in Committee.
 1375 1376 verbatim et literatim verbatim et literatim l 1377 l. 1. l. 1378
 Lord J. Russell  had no wish to continue a debate which did not seem to have been conducted with the view of leading to any general discussion of the principles of this Bill; but he could not avoid remarking on the course pursued by the noble Lord—a course not dissimilar to that which he had followed on other occasions—on the anxiety he had shown, but which he felt no wish to indulge, to excite contention, and raise acrimonious debate. The noble Lord reminded him somewhat of a gentleman with whom he (Lord J. Russell) was formerly acquainted, who was rather fond of disputing in conversation, and in the habit of throwing out opinions strangely paradoxical. Anxious to avoid lengthened altercation, he used sometimes to say to the gentleman, "Well, then, I'll dispute no longer, I'll agree with you;" on which his disputatious friend would turn round and exclaim, "What! agree with me? now tell me why you agree with me." The noble Lord seemed to think it a shocking matter that his Majesty's Ministers had embraced some opinions which the noble Lord formerly entertained, and had even adopted some clauses to which he assented  verbatim et literatim; 1379
 Lord John Russell  said, I feel myself compelled to take part in this debate, though I do not admit that there is any necessity for its introduction; and I must observe to the hon. Gentleman who has introduced it, that while I do not find fault with him for any notice on his part, yet that, as a public question, I may be permitted to put in some words of excuse, or palliation, or, it may be, justification, as to the delay which takes place in proceeding with the measures of the Government. Sir, the case is really this—that Gentleman, one after another, bring forward motions of their own, till they have occupied some two or three dozen evenings fixed for the discussion of those measures, and then they all join in chorus, and say, "What a dreadful thing it is that those measures have not proceeded!—what a dreadful delay there is in the public business—we have already arrived in the month of June, and the measures which the Government declared expedient and necessary have not yet passed!" I might say, with regard to the particular course which the hon. Gentleman has adopted to-night, if I were to use his phraseology, that his course had been dishonest, he pretending to one thing while he was doing another. That, Sir, is the charitable supposition which he puts on the course pursued by his Majesty's Ministers—that is the way in which he thinks proper to impute motives to, or invent them for, those whose public conduct he arraigns. What was the course of the hon. Gentleman? He made a speech, pretending to be highly in favour of the principles of liberty—pretending to be very much in favour of an improved course of legislation—an improved course of public action more favourable to popular power and popular control in this country; and in the whole of that speech he never got a cheer of assent, except from those whom he represents as the most decided enemies of that public liberty, and from whom he totally dissents in political opinions. I say, then, Sir, that if I were to judge of motives as rashly and as wantonly as the hon. Member, I should declare that in taking the course which he has taken, he was, while he pretended to be aiding public liberty, in fact, endeavouring to obstruct the course of those who were striving to do what they possibly could in its behalf, and
 1364 1365 1366 1367 1368 1369 1370
 Mr. Roebuck  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that he had given notice of a motion relative to the state in which the Government stood, and he considered the present occasion a fit opportunity for redeeming his pledge. The Order of the Day for the second reading of the Irish Tithe Bill had been put, and it appeared to him that they were about to lose their time by so doing, because even if they passed that Bill it could not become a law, at least under the auspices of the present advisers of the Crown. The circumstances in which that House stood were most remarkable, and required deep consideration. Two bills had been sent up to the other House of Parliament, but they were told the House of Lords would not take them into consideration until something had been done by that House to please them. Of that threat no notice was taken, and particularly none by his Majesty's Ministers; and he was bound to say, from their whole conduct, that they did nothing for the people, though they did much against them; their labours, in fact, were little better than nothing. The House and the country had been told at various times that justice was to be done to Ireland; but what he wished to call the attention of the House to, was the situation in which this House, the country, and the Government were at the
 1338 1339 1340 Oh, oh! Cheers and laughter 1341 1342 1343 1344 1345 1346 1347 1348 1349 1350 1351 1352 1353
 Mr. Hume  hoped it would long be the privilege of that House that those who entertained opinions different from others should be at liberty to express them fearlessly. His hon. and learned Friend had said that the hon. Member for Bath accused the Ministry of being weak, and that he likened him to that practitioner of old who, whilst taking blood from his luckless patients, blamed them for not getting stronger. Though he did not feel the justness of the application of this simile, yet he agreed in many of the statements of his hon. Friend, whilst he differed from him in many others. His hon. Friend, the Member for Bath, never said that he wished to see the Tories in power. He stated that the Ministry at the commencement of their career promised to support certain public measures, and to carry out those general principles upon which they received the support of those who sat on that (the Ministerial) side, and that the people out of doors complained that they had not done so. He contended that they had not done so. He thought that they had not taken those measures which the Reform Bill required. Then, his hon. Friend had argued, that by not support-
 1361 1362 1363
 Mr. Chapman  thought a person should be appointed to inspect the condition of
 1384
 Mr. Brotherton  doubted much whether the principle of selecting the largest ratepayer was a good one; and he knew a case when the person who was assessed to the largest amount of rates in a borough was unable to write his name.
 Mr. Bernal  agreed with the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton), but as they could not force others to take the same views as themselves, and as it was desirable the measure should pass, their object ought to be to have it passed in the least injurious shape possible.
 Lord J. Russell  could not agree to the clauses inserted by the other House regarding the auditing of the accounts. The board of auditors had stated various reasons why they could not perform in a satisfactory manner the duties which would be required from them, should such a provision be continued in the Bill; and he thought, when their Lordships were made acquainted with those reasons, they would see sufficient cause for altering the clauses which had been inserted. It was stated that if this new duty was thrown upon the board of audit, a great additional expense would necessarily be incurred; and that in fact, a new department would require to be established. For these reasons he would propose that clauses T and U be left out.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that it had been on a former occasion stated by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis) as a case of great hardship, that the clergy should by this act be obliged to perform a civil duty uncon-
 1383
 Lord J. Russell  replied that no person had been sent.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, there certainly was a person appointed to examine and to take care of the Government steamers; but he had never heard that the Government or the Admiralty were bound to provide inspectors to examine into the condition of the steam-boats and their machinery throughout the kingdom. The whole facts, which it was now possible to learn, would be brought out before the coroner; though he doubted much whether, under the circumstances, any evidence could be obtained as to the cause of the accident. At all events, until the coroner's inquest was over, he did not think there would be any utility in sending down an engineer.
 Mr. Wakley  hoped the noble Lord would feel it his duty to send some qualified person to inquire into the circumstances under which the explosion had taken place. It was a very serious case, and he thought an investigation should take place into the causes of the accident, and that that investigation should be intrusted to some disinterested person, and not be left entirely to the local authorities.
 Mr. Wakley  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether the Government had sent an engineer to inquire into the late disastrous occurrence at Hull
 Mr. Wakley  said, his object was, that the Government should send some competent person to attend the coroner's inquest, and he thought the present case was as important as that of the railways to Brighton, in regard to which an engineer had been appointed.
 Mr. Goulburn  would give to the noble Lord's motion all the opposition in his power; because he conceived, notwithstanding the noble Lord's statement, and indeed, in consequence of that statement, that it was fraught with danger to the property of the church, and with danger
 1400 1401 1402 1403 l l 1404
 Colonel Thompson  said, he rose to second the amendment, among other reasons, for the same that had been given by the mover, because, in spite of many attempts, he had failed in getting an opportunity of expressing his mind before. He thought there had been a succession of mistakes and the first mistake was with the Dissenters, in having said that they resisted church-rates for conscience sake. He believed he could prove to them, that they resisted for a reason much more appropriate to the case. If a Dissenter was stopped on the highway, however much it might be against his conscience to promote the purposes to which the robbers would probably apply his spoil, he would never make the mistake of saying he resisted for conscience-sake, he would say he resisted injustice. Try then, the injustice by taking another instance. Take the circumstances in which our forefathers, who finally obtained the name of Protestants, began to resist the domination of a Church which had previously been universal. If, at that period the demands of justice could have been heard, what would they have been but that our Protestant forefathers should have carried away with them the portion that befell them, of every kind of property the state had set apart for the maintenance of religion? If this could have been done, it would have saved the struggle and the loss which afterwards ensued. Exactly the same was the case of the Dissenters now. He had heard hon. Members opposite call the church-rates a just debt, and stigmatise as dishonest all who ventured to oppose them. He had heard it stated, if he was not mistaken, and he much wanted to ascertain the fact, that he might put it into his museum that the church-rates were paid by everybody, and therefore were paid by nobody. Surely the fact that the value of everybody's property was lessened by them, was not intended to be brought as the evidence that nobody was the loser. How long would such pleas have been admitted by our forefathers? And had the Dissenters no property to be diminished in value by the church-rates? Whole justice to the Dissenters was to give them their portion of the property provided by the com-
 1416
 Mr. Goulburn  wished that the debate might be adjourned upon the Amendment he had to propose.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that after what had fallen from the noble Lord, he took it for granted that the House was prepared to come to an opinion upon both questions. Whether the course he had taken upon the present occasion was inappropriate, appeared to him to be a question on which he, perhaps, was as well qualified to judge as the noble Lord. He could only say, that it appeared to him to be essentially necessary, on entering into the inquiry for the purpose of discovering whether they could have a surplus revenue out of the management of Church lands,
 1434
 Lord John Russell  was anxious that the debate should be concluded that night. He thought that the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman, in proposing a further amendment, appeared to him to be extraordinary. The question on which they were then dividing was, whether a Select Committee should be appointed; and the right hon. Gentleman proposed beyond that question likewise, a motion to conclude the House to this—that any revenues which might be derived from an improved management of Church property should be applied to a particular purpose. The proper time to make such action was, when his right hon. Friend had positively affirmed what would be the effect of an improved management of Church property, and the manner in which it ought to be dealt with. But when the question was before the House, and that an amendment had been moved for a different appropriation by the hon. Member for St. Andrew's, the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and those who supported him, refused to accede to that resolution. The question that was now to be disposed of was, not the absolute application of revenues, but for a Committee to examine as to the sources from which funds might be derived. The proper opportunity for the amendment of the right hon. Gentleman was when the funds were to be disposed of. He thought the amendment ought most properly to follow the resolution of his right hon. Friend; but it was a singular, and, he thought, an inappropriate course to pursue on the present occasion.
 Lord John Russell  felt it incumbent on him to say a few words after what had been imputed to him. He begged the House to recollect that he did not offer any statement on the Church Commission till it had been urged that this inquiry should be prosecuted by the Church Commissioners. He thought the objection of members of the Church Commission, except those of the administration, was, that they were opposed to the application of the Church funds to the abolition of Church-rates, and secondly, to placing the management of the property in a central
 1408
 Lord John Russell  said, that, as the right hon. Gentleman and other hon. Gentlemen had referred to the Church Commission, perhaps, though not strictly correct, he could save the time of the House if he made a short statement. He would not say whether this inquiry had better be conducted by the Church Commissioners or by a Select Committee—he would not say which he should prefer. Circumstances had occurred since the Cabinet had agreed to the abolition of Church-rates, and the treatment of the property of the Church as proposed, which, having been communicated to some of the members of the Church Commission, they had raised strong objections to. They felt that they could not agree to the means proposed to be adopted; but afterwards,
 1406
 Lord John Russell : I rise, Sir, to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the mode of granting and renewing leases on the landed and other property held by bishops, deans, and chapters, and other ecclesiastical bodies in England and Wales, and into the probable amount of any increased value which might be obtained by an improved management, with a due consideration to the interests of the Established Church, and the present lessees of Church property. It is but right that I should state, as the House probably will have concluded, that I am proposing this motion in consequence of the division which took place the other
 1385 1386 1387 prima facie 1388 1389 "For this annual payment, (he says) the lessee will have an estate of freehold of inheritance, entirely at his own disposal, which he may lease, or sell, or mortgage, to whomsoever he pleases, subject to the rent-charge; he will be free from all apprehension of having to bargain for renewals from time to time, and from all the trouble, anxiety, and expense attendant thereon: he will no longer be liable to be called upon to raise the money for the renewal, when it may be very inconvenient for him to do so. He will, likewise, be rid of the dignitary's valuer, solicitor, steward, bailiff, woodcutter, and gamekeeper; he may plant a tree and water it, with the certain hope that he and his son, and his son's son, may sit in the shade thereof; he may drain, cultivate, and improve his fields, without fear of the dignitary's valuer making him pay twice over for his improvement, by an increased fine at the next renewal. In short, what seemed to be his own will then be his own." 1390 "If they (speaking of bishops), not content with educating their children well, and with such a competency as may set them afloat in the world, think of building up their own houses, and raising up great estates, they will put the world on many unacceptable inquiries. Wherefore is this world made—why are these treasures continued to men who make such an ill use of them—and why is an order kept up that does the Church so little good, and gives it so much scandal?" 1391 l l l l l l l l 1392 l l l 1393 1394 1395 l l l l l l 1396 1397 1398
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, it was a most extraordinary proceeding on the part of the noble Lord to come down to the House at the eleventh hour of the Church-rate Bill, and propose the appointment of a Committee to inquire into that with which he ought to have been well acquainted before he presumed to bring forward the Bill itself. He would not call it a shuffle, but it certainly appeared to him to be a mere Ministerial trick to impose
 1405 l
 Mr. Harvey  denied that any misrepresentations had been made on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, as to the amount and value of the resources of the Established Church. But if the hon. Gentleman were not satisfied with his (Mr. Harvey's) assurance upon the point he would read to him an extract from the Report of the Church Commissioners themselves, which would show that the Church of England, instead of being, as the hon. Gentleman opposite would lead the House to believe, an exceedingly poor and impoverished Church, was in fact the richest and best paid Church in the world. The Church Commissioners divided the revenues of the Church into three parts—first, the revenues of the cathedrals and other ecclesiastical corporations; second, the revenue received and appropriated by the bishops; and third, the amount of the livings throughout the country. In making their Report, the Commissioners very studiously distinguished between the gross and net amount of the revenue of the Church; and, after making every possible deduction, they admitted the net revenue per annum to be 3,441,156 l l l 1409 l 1410 1411 1412 l l l l 1413 1414 1415
 Mr. G. Palmer  said, that the noble Lord very clearly developed the objects he had in view—objects, however, which, in his opinion, were nothing more nor less than the total alienation of church property, and the converting into mere stipendiaries the bishops and other dignitaries of the establishment. According to all ancient custom, church property could not be sold. If they looked to the grants made to the church by pious individuals some nine or ten hundred years ago, they would find the principle laid down that no proposition for selling the estates of the church could be made without incurring the vengeance of Heaven; and he firmly
 1399 "What is that cause of liberty, and what are those exertions in its favour, to which the example of France is so singularly auspicious? Is our monarchy to be annihilated, with all the laws, all the tribunals, and all the ancient corporations of the kingdom? Is every landmark of the country to be done away in favour of a geometrical and arithmetical constitution? Is the House of Lords to be voted useless? Is episcopacy to be abolished? Are the church lands to be sold to Jews and jobbers? Are the curates to be seduced from their bishops by holding out to them the delusive hope of a dole out of the spoils of their own order?"
 Mr. G. H. Vernon  was astonished at the statement made by the noble Lord, because it seemed to implicate the Church Commissioners in a manner which they did not deserve. The course taken by the Commissioners was clear and correct. They had considered themselves appointed to advance the religious instruction of the people, and they were ever disposed to attend to any thing which could promote that object, but he considered that the plan of the noble Lord would have the effect of depriving them of the means of doing so to a great extent, because it would divert a large portion of the Church revenues from their original design. That was their objection to going into the question of Church-rates. In bringing forward that measure the Government had acted on their own responsibility, and in the belief, or the alleged belief, that the funds on which they calculated were in existence. It could not be supposed that they would really pretend to be so stultified as not to know that which every lawyer in the kingdom knew. His Majesty's Ministers, of course, were well acquainted with the whole subject, and did not require any fresh information; but then there were many hon. Members who were ignorant of the real state of this question, and therefore a Committee might be the means of affording them some instruction and illumination. He was quite astonished at the ignorance which some hon. Members had displayed in the course of the debates on this subject. But then it was the duty of the noble Lord to set those hon. Members right, and to remove the cause of the egregious blunders which they had committed. He must say, that he had heard with the utmost surprise the erroneous statements put forth by some hon. Members, not only on this question, but on other topics connected with the Church. He had thought the hon. Member for Leeds was better informed until he heard him speak. The same want of correct knowledge was exhibited by other hon. Members who travelled into the sub-
 1407
 Mr. Gally Knight  said, that as he could not deny the right of Parliament to interfere with Church property for the purpose indicated in the motion, and as he was desirous to see an increased value given to that property, if it could be effected with a due regard to the interests of the Church and of the lessees, he should not oppose the motion of the noble Lord. If Ministers made the proposition with any sinister designs, the suspicion of those motives could not attach to those who, like him, wished for the prosperity and permanence of the Established Church.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he would at once apply himself to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman as to whether or not this was a proper case for the appointment of a Select Committee of that House. He had no doubt as to his being able to make out a sufficient case for inquiry before the Committee; for if one case more than another, by reason of the object in view, called for the legitimate proposition of a Select Committee, this was that case, and this indeed was the only obvious and clear mode of proceeding. He trusted, however, before he proceeded farther, that he might congratulate the right hon. Baronet on the new light opened on him as to the appointment of Select Committees. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the appointment of a Select Committee was to take from the Executive Government the responsibility they ought to incur. He rejoiced that the expressions and arguments of the right hon. Gentleman were
 1429 1430 1431 1432
 Sir Harry Verney  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down whether his Majesty's Government had injured the property of the Church by the Tithe Bill of last year? So far from it, that Bill had very much improved church property. Receivers had been greatly benefitted by it, and payers had been greatly eased. He should vote for the proposition of the noble Lord, certainly; but he should not consent to apply the surplus to any but an ecclesiastical purpose, while the church remained so inadequately provided for.
 Sir Robert Peel  was in no way surprised at the impatience exhibited by the House, considering that the subject had already been debated for five nights. In the few observations he begged to be allowed to make, he should strictly confine himself to the immediate point before them, namely, whether it was fitting that a select Committee should be appointed to consider this question. He well knew how plausible a proposition the appointment of a select Committee was. He knew well that if he had merely some political object in view, it would be much better to acquiesce in the proposal. He was aware that many persons, seeing how their property was situated, in consequence of the ministerial proposition on Church-rates, whatever their original objections to the appointment of a Committee, were now almost ready to assent to it, as offering them a means of putting an end to their embarrassments. But he considered the proposition so objectionable—as involving so bad a precedent—that, whatever the decision might be, he for one was determined not to acquiesce in the proposal to appoint a select Committee to perform the duties of the Executive Government. This would be a precedent which Government might be very glad to avail itself of whenever it became desirable to escape out of a political dilemma. The subject had undergone a more close discussion than any other this Session; greater numbers had divided on it; in the second instance, the division was entirely on the principle of the measure, it was a division on no question of detail, but turned simply on this point, whether or no, assuming that there was any available surplus, that surplus should be applied as a substitute for Church-rates, or to purposes immediately connected with the diffusion of religious instruction. On this great principle Ministers had a majority of five. Why, then, did not Ministers proceed with the measure; But no? they would neither do this, nor let it alone
 1423 1424 1425 1426 1427 1428 l l l l l l
 Viscount Howick  said, he should undoubtedly oppose the amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Southwark. He should do so, because he had never professed a wish to abolish church-rates unless an efficient substitute could be found for them; and he further did so, because it appeared to him that although he believed that this Committee by showing to the House that such a substitute might fairly and legitimately be provided, would remove a great difficulty in the way of the future abolition of those rates, still in the appointment of the Committee they ought to keep perfectly distinct all consideration of the purposes to which any fund that might arise from any measure that should be adopted, in consequence of the inquiry now proposed might hereafter be applied. For the same reason, he should also oppose the amendment which the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, in the event of the original proposition being carried, intended afterwards to submit to the House. He thought the appointment of the Committee was desirable, in order to satisfy the public, and satisfy the minds of hon. Members of this House of the propriety and expediency of adopting an improved system of management of church property, whereby a surplus fund might possibly be realised. But he entirely concurred with his noble Friend, that to a Committee of this description the important question of the application of any fund so realised ought not to be confided. Whatever might be the object connected
 1417 1418 1419 1420 1421 l l l l 1422
 Mr. R. Sutton and Mr. Stable  were examined—the subject was then suffered to drop.
 Mr. Wallace  said, the Excise-office was one which affected the trade of the country at large, and in that department there was received as much as 2,000,000 l l l 1450 l l l l l l l l 1451 l
 Mr. F. Baring  begged to state, in reply to the hon. Member for Middlesex, that a good deal had been done towards carrying into effect the recommendations contained in the Reports which had been presented to them, considering the short time which the Government had had for doing so. There was not one of those Reports upon which some steps had not been taken; a considerable reduction in the expenditure had been effected, and in every other respect he could assure hon. Members there was no disinclination on the part of Government to attend to the recommendations of the Commissioners.
 Mr. Handley , seeing the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, wished to ask him, whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce any measure during the present Session on the subject of taxed carts? He (Mr. Handley) had a notice on the subject, which he would be glad to resign to the right hon. Gentleman, if any measure was contemplated.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion, and expressed his regret that so little had been done towards carrying into effect the recommendations contained in that Report.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , knowing the interest taken by the hon. Gentleman in every thing relating to agriculture, was not surprised at the question he had put. The subject to which the question related had not produced much excitement in Parliament, but he was aware that it had created a strong excitement in the agricultural districts. In the measures which had been introduced by the Government the object more particularly
 1449
 Mr. Jervis  wished the same provision to be extended to all courts which have now power to direct issues to be tried before the sheriffs, to the amount of 20 l
 Lord Stanley  objected. He was fully prepared to carry out his own proposition, which he was not aware that the hon. and learned Member was, with respect to the extension of the power to the courts he referred to.
 Mr. Wakley  considered the Bill to be of a most arbitrary nature, as it empowered any person who chose to call the premises his to turn the occupant of a tenement out of possession four days after the term of his tenancy was declared by him to have expired. The effect of such a state of things would in some boroughs be most disastrous. The Bill cast aside trial by jury, and gave a magistrate the power of deciding on trials of ejectment. He was convinced the Bill must be a bad one, as it was so very palatable to a large majority of that House. He should therefore move, as an amendment, that the House do go into Committee on the Bill that day three months.
 Mr. Jervis  seconded the amendment. He wished to know if the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth was acquainted
 1461
 Mr. Aglionby  denied, that this bill was intended for the oppression of the poor. He believed there were many Members in that House quite as zealous for the rights of the poor as the hon. and learned Member for Chester. The country was decidedly in favour of the Bill, and had taken a great interest in its success. A public meeting had been held at Salford, and resolutions in support of it were carried unanimously. He really doubted whether the hon. and learned Member for Chester had read the Bill, for there was no foundation for the objections which he had raised with reference to the decision of the magistrate on questions of title. The Bill only allowed the magistrate to act ministerially, and gave him no power to decide on judicial questions.
 Counsel  having been heard against the East India Maritime Officers Bill. The question was put that the Speaker leave the chair for the House to go into Committee.
 Mr. Robinson  thought the House should resolve itself into Committee. A Clause had been purposely introduced into the East India Bill to meet the claims made upon the East India Company.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the arguments of counsel had convinced him that it would be a gross act of injustice to interfere with the East India Company, in the manner proposed by the Bill of the hon. Member. The East India Company had considered those claims fully, and had determined that compensation could not be given consistently with the rules laid down for carrying into execution the act of Parliament. The company had the power of giving compensation in such cases as they conceived it was merited, subject to certain limitations, but he did not think they should be compelled to do so in every instance, as proposed by the present Bill.
 Mr. Praed  observed that the company had refused to take cognizance of cases of which there was  primá facie 1453
 Sir J. Hobhouse  said, that it was impossible he could be influenced by any feeling beyond that Of public duty in opposing the present Bill. He looked at the question in exactly the same light as the learned counsel, who had told them that the House of Commons should not interfere with property with which they had no business whatever. The House of Commons had given to the East India Company a right to exercise their own discretion and control as to what officers they would compensate, and the Court of Directors and Board of Control had agreed upon certain limits beyond Which no compensation could be granted. The Act of Parliament had given to the East-India Company the right and power to make these rules, and having been made, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Robinson) came forward and said, that the limit made by the company was unwise and unfair, and in order to make the East-India Company relax their rules, called for the interference of Parliament. If the hon. Gentleman's proposition succeeded, he had no hesitation in saying, that the money to meet those claims which the hon. Member advocated should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. The company had already suffered sufficient by having been deprived of their trade; and surely that House ought not, under pretence of doing justice to one party, to inflict injustice upon another. Conceiving therefore, that the present Bill was not only one of the most strange, but also one of the most unjust and iniquitous, that had ever been presented to Parliament, he would give it his most strenuous opposition throughout all its stages.
 Mr. Heathcote  opposed the Bill, as it would open the door to fraud and abuse, and as one instalment towards the repeal of the Corn-laws. He felt it his duty to move, as an amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Labouchere  was desirous that the experiment which the Bill proposed should be fairly tried; the experiment was due to the commercial and the shipping interests of the country, and it would ill become
 1455
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that he could not concur in the proposed experiment, which he felt satisfied would operate injuriously to the landed interest. The manufacture of corn in bond would lead to frauds, the King's locks were not secure, and no guarantee was given as to the future destination of the corn when manufactured. He concurred in thinking the measure as the first instalment towards a repeal of the Corn Laws, and he should therefore give his cordial dissent to the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Benett  said, that this was an experiment which the right hon. the Vice-President of the Board of Trade would not venture to try with any branch of manufactures, and he ought to pause before he gave his sanction to such an interference with the landed interests. Was it to be supposed that mills under look would be confined to the grinding of foreign corn alone? The experiment, if honest, was most ludicrous; if dishonest, the right hon. Gentlemen ought at once to say, "We are for doing away with the Corn Laws." He was sure if it were known that such a Bill had been submitted to Parliament, the table would have been crowded with the petitions of the agriculturists against it, and he should certainly vote for the rejection of the Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  denied that the measure would in any degree interfere with the home consumption of home-grown corn. It had been asserted that ships making a long voyage were victualled with biscuits made from home-grown corn—the fact was not so, because ships were in the habit of proceeding to Hamburg and other places, and provided themselves there; and even for shorter voyages to the Baltic the same thing occurred.
 The Earl of Darlington  in justice to those who had sent him to that House felt bound to oppose the second reading of this Bill.
 Viscount Sandon  supported the Bill, and denied that any fraud could be committed under its operation, provided the same regulations were provided in this Bill as had been made with regard to the refining of sugars in bond. He put it
 1456
 Mr. Wyse  said, as no Irish Member had yet spoken on the subject, and as he was more closely connected with the commercial than the agricultural interest, which in Ireland was the preponderating interest, he might be allowed to say a word or two. The agricultural interest in Ireland, so far from being opposed to this Bill, was in favour of it. He saw no force in the objections which had been urged from the other side. Some hon. Members had used the objection  ad hominem.
 Mr. George F. Young  did not sympathise with those who anticipated great dangers from this Bill. He believed it would confer great benefits on the commercial interests of the country. The present law was by no means advantageous to the agricultural interest, and it was openly evaded by the shipowners. He wished to see the interests of both classes protected, and therefore should support the Bill.
 Mr. Handley  said, this scheme had been tried before, and had been found wanting. Returns had been honestly furnished to the House of the quantity of foreign corn bonded, manufactured, and exported, and it was found by those returns, that considerable quantities escaped from the custody of the King's lock, notwithstanding its boasted security. The system proposed to be established by the Bill would never be worth the attention of the millers unless they could keep
 1457
 Colonel Sibthorp  seconded the amendment. He wished to know why the proposer of this Bill had not brought in one which should tell directly against the practice of the hon. Gentlemen who occupied the Treasury benches, for they were guilty of the most bare-faced bribery. He repeated the words "barefaced bribery;" and he was not aware that he was out of order in using them, or guilty of any disrespect to those hon. Gentlemen. They must have faces of brass if they could deny what he said. There was an old saying—"A nod is as good as a wink to a blind horse." That might suffice, but he would ask, whether it was not customary for the hon. Gentlemen opposite, during the elections, to send down to Woolwich and other dockyards, and to adopt a system which might be described in the homely, though appropriate, language—"Scratch me, and I'll scratch you." He should wish to hear bribery properly defined. He was in the habit of giving coals to the poor amongst his constituency, and never passed the sick chamber of a man who had voted for him without leaving some relief, and he thought it would be a hardship if this subjected him to the imputation of bribery.
 Mr. Baines , far from agreeing with the sentiments expressed by the hon. Member for Durham, only objected to the Bill, not because it went too far, but because it did not go far enough. There was no provision in it against the payment of
 1459
 Mr. Hardy  was regardless of the insinuation thrown out against him by the hon. Member for Leeds, for he considered there was as much difference between bribery and head-money as between it and the Greek loan. Head-money was paid by each candidate immediately after the election; it was an old custom to pay two guineas to every voter, and if the hon. Member for Leeds would refer to the hon. Member for Pontefract, he would discover that the practice still existed. It did not at all affect the election, as the money would be paid if there was no opposition; then every elector would receive two guineas from the Member, whereas in a contest each candidate would only pay his immediate supporters.
 Mr. A. Trevor  protested against the cruel provisions which the Bill contained, one of the penalties for an Act of bribery was, that the individual proved to have been guilty of it should for ever after be deemed unfit to hold any civil office. That punishment far exceeded the amount of guilt. He believed that bribery would continue to exist as long as Parliaments existed in England, and the constituencies remained in their present state. That splendid measure—the Reform Bill—had opened wide the door to bribery. He thought so, because it had introduced to the enjoyment of the franchise a great number of persons whose circumstances laid them open to temptation. The Bill was very unjust, and he should therefore move, that it be read a second time that day six months.
 Lord Morpeth  stated that the Lords had set down certain amendments to the Dublin Police Bill, which, as they related to taxing the subject, that House could not entertain. He would, therefore, move that the Lords' amendments to the Dublin Police Bill be read that day six months.—Motion agreed to.
 Mr. O'Connell  differed from his hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex for he thought that the House ought to give facilities to parties who desired to supply evidence on matters of fact, and he requested hon. Members to recollect that in this case the evidence was required for the defence. He was clear in the opinion that the House did possess the privilege of printing and publishing evidence given before it; but, notwithstanding that undoubted right, he was equally clear in the opinion that the present was not a case in which the required permission ought to be refused. Surely if any person had stated that which was false an opportunity should not he denied of contradicting that falsehood.
 Sir G. Clerk  regretted that any difficulties in point of form should impede the bestowal of a public reward on persons who were so eminently entitled to it. Some few years ago Mr. Merton, the inventor of a machine for drawing up vessels on a slip, received a considerable sum from Government, in consequence of the favourable Report of a Committee, though this was made without the previous consent of the Crown, his case being, that up to within a year of the expiration of his patent his invention had not attracted public attention, and had consequently been of no benefit to him. The Committee reported against an extension of his patent, but in favour of a pecuniary testimony and this recommendation was acted upon.
 Mr. Pryme  must object to the Bill. He did not see how the measure could benefit the poor occupants, for if the owner had to pay the rates he would add them to the rent.
 Sir G. Strickland  could never approve of a principle which took away from these classes directly interested in the Poor-rates all share in their administration.
 Mr. Sanford  supported the Bill, though he had some doubts as to giving this new power to the boards of guardians. He would give his support to the introduction of the Bill, but its details would be matter for future consideration.
 Mr. Wason  saw no chance of passing the Bill this Session, so that it was a mere waste of time to proceed with it. Independently of this, however, he objected to the principle of the Bill, as they had already had experience of the evil working of a similar measure.
 Mr. Baines  saw considerable difficulties in the way of the passing of this Bill. Suppose, for instance, a tenant refused to pay
 1495
 Mr. Wakley  thought, that his Majesty's Ministers ought not to enjoy a monopoly of the introduction of Bills. It was the duty of his Majesty's Ministers to support any Bills that were calculated to benefit the people. He thought that this Bill would affect parochial franchise in the election of guardians of the poor to a great degree; and he therefore hoped that if the Bill were allowed to be introduced, the House would take care to protect the franchise of those tenants who must inevitably pay the rate, although the landlord might be nominally assessed for it.
 Mr. Aglionby  saw no chance of getting the Bill passed this Session, and therefore, although he approved of its principle, he would recommend his hon. Friend to withdraw it.
 Mr. R. Palmer  begged to add his recommendation to the many that had already been expressed that the hon. Baronet would allow himself to be persuaded to withdraw his Bill.
 Sir H. Verney  was unwilling to withdraw his Bill without having it printed, and he should, therefore, persist in dividing the House upon his motion.
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had no intention to oppose the Bill, but he had hoped that the noble Lord would have allowed him to introduce a clause, providing for the restoration of their pensions to certain old soldiers, who had long and faithfully served their country, in a Bill which was introduced with the view of doing an act of justice to foreign officers who had been employed in his Majesty's service. It would be recollected that some considerable time ago a plan had been adopted by the Government of the day, by which a number of old soldiers had been induced to dispose of their pensions for a commuted allowance from the War-office. The object of the plan was to allow those veterans an opportunity of settling advantageously in the colonies, and for that purpose part of the commuted allowance was paid in
 1497 1498
 Viscount Horwick  said, that he had found by an application to the Speaker that it would have been quite contrary to the usual practice of Parliament to insert a clause in a Bill quite foreign to the object of the Bill itself. For that reason he had resisted the insertion of the clause, but he thought also that the measure for the commutation of pensions was not of so harsh a nature as it had been represented. He admitted due caution had not been used, and that the commutation had gone further than was expedient, but the Government had done all they could to prevent improper persons from going out as settlers to the colonies, and the Government had, in fact, been imposed upon by the partial and improper representations of those persons who wished to commute their pensions. If a Bill were passed embodying the views of the right hon. Gentleman, he feared that it would only operate as an inducement to those who were settled in the colonies and actively employed in providing for themselves to return home, and once more throw themselves upon the pension list, even though their conduct since they had commuted their pensions would not justify the governors of Chelsea Hospital in restoring them, had they liberty so to act. He could not pledge himself to bring in a Bill providing for the restoration of those pensions.
 Mr. F. Baring  thought, that that House ought not to encourage applications for an increase of salary from parties who had their own office to go to in the first instance. If they found that their complaints were not attended to by the Postmaster-General, then they might be justified in appealing to that House. The salary paid to the twopenny letter-carriers in the year 1800 was much lower than it was at present. In 1812, it was raised to its present amount, a period, it should be recollected, at which the price of labour and provisions was much higher than it was now.
 Sir G. Strickland  seconded the motion. At the same time, he hoped that the result of the proposed inquiry might be more favourable than was to be inferred from the statements which had been made by the hon. Mover. One reason for his entertaining this expectation, was the very high character which he had heard in all quarters of Dr. Ellis. He was very unwilling to believe, unless inquiry should show it to be so, that that character was not well founded.
 Mr. Francis Baring  opposed the motion. A Committee of Inquiry must be quite unnecessary, all the facts connected with the existing Commissions being already before the House. The hon. and gallant Member had not brought any direct charge against any particular Commission, but had confined himself to a general complaint against all, and had said a good deal about jobs, yet the only job to which he particularly referred was that of the Record Commission, which, if it were a job at all, was a job that had existed ever since the days of Mr. Pitt; the Record Commission having been appointed by that famous statesman.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Gentleman had a perfect right to bring forward his views upon this subject, the great importance of which could not be denied. But having done so, he (Lord John Russell) hoped that the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied, and not press the matter further, so as to lead to a general discussion and impede the other business before the House.
 Dr. Bowring  was anxious to record his opinions upon the subject, which he conceived to be one of great public importance.
 Colonel Wood  regretted the absence of the two Members for the county of Middlesex. He did not often agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, but he agreed in every word that had fallen from him on the present occasion. If the inquiry were limited to the Hanwell institution, it would be filing a bill against the managers of it. The inquiry, if entered into at all, should be into the condition of all the institutions of a similar kind in the kingdom. The quarter from which the proposition proceeded was an odd one. It proceeded from the vestry of the parish of St. George, Hanover-square. Now, it was the treatment of the pauper lunatics belonging to that parish which had led to the building of the asylum at Hanwell. Two pauper lunatics who had been sent to a private asylum by that vestry, appeared before the gentlemen composing it, and proposed, if they were assured that they should not be sent back to the same asylum, to prove how they had been treated. He would not state the name of the asylum to which he alluded, but it appeared that these pauper lunatics had been chained down in it, almost in a state of nudity, from Saturday to Monday, with scarcely any attention during the whole of that period. On inquiry, it appeared that there was a ward in that asylum of which the physician knew nothing. So shocked was the vestry at the disclosure of these circumstances, that their first impression was to remove all the pauper lunatics of the parish from the asylum in question; but the other private asylums were so crowded that it was found impracticable to obtain the necessary accommodation. This led to an inquiry into the number of pauper lunatics in Middlesex, and he was sorry to say, it appeared, that there were 1,100. A bill for the erection of county asylums for pauper lunatics was introduced by the hon. Member for Cricklade; and the consequence was, that the magistrates of Middlesex built the asylum at Hanwell. In the first instance, it was calculated for only 300 patients; but it was afterwards enlarged
 1489
 Captain Chetwynd  thought the measure reflected great credit on the gallant mover, and he had no doubt it would be carried by a large majority. A Committee had been appointed who reported in favour of the ladies, and their recommendation when proposed to the House, was rejected by the smallest majority. On a later occasion the House agreed to the resolution proposed by his gallant Friend. He trusted that resolution would be adhered to by a reformed Parliament. It was urged against the measure, that ladies had no desire whatever to attend; but could that be said with truth, when, in the old House, they condescended to sit down in a place called the lantern—a treatment quite disgraceful on the part of the House; and if the ladies were ready to sacrifice their comfort to gratify their curiosity by viewing the proceedings of the House secretly, how much more gratifying to them would it be to be allowed to do so openly: another objection was, that the presence of the ladies would lengthen the debate, and induce Members to enlarge on subjects, and cause consirable delay. But he thought hon. Members would be less likely to talk nonsense in the presence of ladies, and secondly, he was convinced that those personal and severe animadversions which he regretted so frequently took place in that House would be considerably abated, if not altogether avoided. Their admission, therefore, would tend to facilitate rather than retard the business of the House,
 1483
 Mr. Grantley Berkeley  considered it his duty to press this question not only on account of its merits, but also because resolutions in favour of it had been formerly come to and reported to that House, and he did not think these should be set aside by evasion and delay. He called on the House to assert its just prerogative, and carry these resolutions into effect; for if they did not they would afford a precedent for setting aside other resolutions of more grave consideration. The subject was so well understood that he need not enter further into it. One circumstance in this case certainly appeared rather odd, and that
 1482 l l
 Lord John Russell  said, he must confess that the reasons which had been alleged; in favour of the appointment of this Select Committee, when taken and compared with the answers which had been given with respect to this asylum, did not afford sufficient ground for this motion. The hon. Gentleman had not adduced any facts of gross mismanagement or of inferior treatment in the establishment at Hanwell. He thought it would not be desirable to limit the inquiry into this particular asylum. The law which had been passed allowing these lunatic asylums to be built in various parts of the country had hitherto worked most beneficially. The want of these houses originally had led to a state of things which he might term most disgraceful to the country. Now, the Act of George 4th, and the inquiries of the Commissioners of Poor-law might very possibly form the foundation of some further proceedings on this question; but he did not think, that under existing circumstances, there was anything to call on the House to appoint a Select Committee in this case; and, therefore, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not insist on this inquiry.
 Lord Seymour  opposed the motion, and observed, that comparing the pay of the twopenny-post carriers with that of many other classes of persons in the same sphere of life, it was quite sufficient. They had this advantage besides, which many others did not enjoy—that during illness, they were paid 11 s s
 Mr. C. Barclay  thought it highly desirable that an inquiry should be instituted not only into the asylum in question, but into that of all institutions of a similar description in the kingdom. Although quite unconnected with the county, he had paid a visit to the Hanwell Asylum, and he thought it would appear that, at least, some of the statements which had been made with respect to it were exaggerated. The comparatively small number of cases was mainly attributable to the circumstance that a great number of incurable cases were sent to the institution. Out of 600 cases he understood that 500 were incurable. It appeared to him that the establishment was well conducted. He had gone round the apartments; and the House would, perhaps, be surprised to hear, that out of 600 inmates 400 were employed in their various trades as shoemakers, carpenters, &c. He was sure, that a Committee would meet the wishes of the country at large, and of the county of Middlesex in particular.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, the increase of Commissions appointed by his Majesty's Government had gone on to an alarming length, and the expense to the
 1490 l s l l d
 Captain Polhill  rose to move, that the petition of the Two-penny post carriers, which he had presented on the 14th of April, be referred to a Select Committee. The nature of that petition was already known to hon. Members, whose support as well as that of the Go-
 1485 s., s.
 Mr. Gaily Knight  rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the Asylum for Lunatic Paupers at Han-well. If it could be shown that sufficient attention was not paid to the management of the lunatic paupers at that establishment, it was the duty of the House to institute an inquiry into the circumstances of the case. It appeared by the returns, that a much smaller number of the persons received at the Hanwell Asylum were cured than at any other similar establishment in the kingdom. Indeed, the difference was frightful, and demanded investigation. And even the returns of the numbers cured at Hanwell were fallacious. In the Report made by the medical superintendent to the magistrates, it was stated, that out of 1,290 patients admitted, 260 were discharged cured; hut it afterwards appeared, that of those 260, a number had been discharged as cured over and over again; and that, at the very moment when the Report was made, twenty-seven of them were, uncured, within the walls of the asylum. The deaths, also, were more numerous than in similar establishments; in fact, there were only half the number of cases, while there were twice the number of deaths at Hanwell than at any other establishment of a similar kind in the kingdom. The expenditure had also been lavish. From the beginning, the greatest improvidence had been manifested. The building had cost 224,000 l 1487
 The Speaker  observed that the present question was a very material one, so far as regarded the regularity of the proceedings of the House. A petition had been presented by Messrs. Fourdrinier for compensation. It was held by the House that no such petition could be received without the King's consent, and that consent having been refused, the petition was withdrawn. A second petition was then presented by the same parties, praying for an extension of the patent. A Committee was appointed for the purpose of considering the prayer of that petition. That Committee made a report, in which they had not confined themselves to the prayer of the petition, but had gone into the consideration of compensation to the petitioners. That was a report which the House could not receive. The course of proceeding then, was that which had been suggested by the hon.
 1494
 The Speaker  said he had very little more to observe with respect to the present motion, except to repeat what he had said before. It was now for the House to decide whether they would proceed further in this matter or not. It was for them, then, to decide whether or not they would afford increased facilities to the proceedings of Courts of Justice. In all cases where Members consulted him he uniformly gave his advice in favour of their not refusing their aid to the administration of the law. As Members of that House he thought they were bound to give every facility in their power. With respect to the motion then before them, he had only to recommend the House now to determine whether or not they would enforce the strict rule.
 Mr. Roebuck  observed that the hon. and learned gentleman opposite had said that the libellous character depended on the occasion. He thought that nothing ought to be brought against a man which he said under the protection of the house. One man might say to another, "You said something against me." The other replies, "True, but it was said under compulsion." The House, which exercised the power of compulsion, ought to protect those who gave evidence before it on matters in which the nation had a great interest.
 Mr. Hume  opposed the motion, considering that no sufficient reason had been shown to induce the House to comply with the prayer of the petition. He thought that they ought not to encourage legal proceedings against persons who might give evidence to that House; the position in which such persons stood was most peculiar, and due regard ought to be had to the circumstances; he therefore objected to the motion.
 Mr. Wakley  knew nothing personally of the Hanwell Asylum; but he had heard, from all quarters, that it was conducted in a more scientific manner than any other institution of a similar kind in the kingdom. The motion of the hon. Gentleman was expressed in a very loose manner. "A Select Committee to inquire into the asylum for lunatic paupers at Hanwell." Into what? Into the financial or the medical management of the asylum? If into the latter, why not extend the inquiry to other institutions of the same description, that the treatment of that which appeared to be the most successful might be
 1488
 Mr. Mackinnon  as Chairman of the Committee in question had the honour of drawing up the report which was considered informal, and which was afterwards corrected by his hon. Friend who had just spoken. The particular word objected to, namely, "compensation," was inserted in the report by himself. It was impossible for him now to state to the House what were his reasons for making that report. He considered that it was advisable for him to abstain from doing so for the moment, and reserve any observations which he had to make till the Committee should have sat again, and altered the word "compensation" to that of "consideration." He could not, however, help thinking that the mere insertion of the word "compensation," instead of "consideration," in the report, hardly called for the revival of the Committee; but as it appeared to be the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman in the chair that such a word as "compensation" could not be tolerated, he was ready to submit and defer to that opinion. He wished it to be understood, however, that there was nothing in the whole of the report which was not unanimously acceded to by the Committee, and that at the time of preparing that report he was wholly unaware that it was informal to use the word "compensation" instead of "consideration."
 Sir O Mosley  rose to move that the Select Committee to whom had been referred Messrs. Fourdrinier's petition on the subject of the renewal of his patent for the making of paper should be revived. He could have wished that it had been in his power to have entered upon the subject at large, because he was very confident that he could have made out the very strongest case in support of the claim for compensation on the part of the inventor of the machine by which the improved manufacture was effected. But in consequence of a private communication which he had from Mr. Speaker, it appeared that in that right hon. Gentleman's opinion the Committee had exceeded the power which was originally confided to them, inasmuch as they had used a certain word in their report which they were not empowered to use. He begged however to state in justice to the Committee, that had inadvertently fallen into the error pointed out by the Speaker. The reference made to the Committee was to consider how far the petitioner's case was borne out in evidence, the prayer of the petition being that the period of the patent should be extended to him. When, however, the question came under the consideration of the Committee, they found that the public had been so long in possession of this valuable invention, that it would be impracticable to accede to the prayer of the petitioners; and they, therefore, thought that it was only an act of justice towards them to recommend that some public compensation should be made to them for the benefit which the public had derived from their invention. In doing this, the Committee certainly exceeded the power which was implied in the question referred to them. Having made this short statement, he thought it would be better to confine him-
 1493
 Sir R. Bateson  replied, that after what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite, he should not say another word, further than to observe, that in bringing forward the proposition he had not been actuated by any party motives but by a sense of justice alone. The hon. Baronet made a motion in accordance with the prayer of the petition.
 Sir R. Bateson  presented a petition on the subject of the motion which he brought forward yesterday, that leave be given to the clerk of the Orange Lodge Committee (1835) to attend and give evidence in the Court of King's Bench, Ireland, in the case of Gore Jones v. Hunter and others. He begged hon. Members to recollect that the trial to which the petition referred was to come on in the Court of King's Bench in Dublin on Monday next, and that it could not be postponed. The defendant, he was informed, did not possess the power of putting off a trial
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he had not the least objection to the motion, and thought that the sooner the House gave its permission the better.
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  said, he hoped the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, was prepared to announce the intentions of his Majesty's Government with respect to the further progress of this Bill. The noble Lord could not fail to be aware that it was one of immense importance, and involved greater changes in the constitution of corporations than had been effected by the Municipal Reform Act. He (Mr. G.) trusted, therefore, that if there was any serious intention of proceeding with it, the noble Lord would have the goodness to give some notice of the day on which he proposed that the discussion should take place.
 Viscount Palmerslon  said, the right hon. Gentleman had put the question plainly and shortly. It might be owing to his obtuseness of understanding, but he could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that though he had listened with the greatest attention to the whole of his speech, be hardly knew what was the precise question. He would, however, endeavour to answer the questions as far as he supposed he understood them. The right hon. Gentleman knew why Sir Charles Vaughan was sent out, for he himself had given the reasons. Lord Ponsonby applied for leave of absence, leave of absence was granted, and Sir C. Vaughan was sent out to supply his place. On that head the right hon. Gentleman had been rightly informed. Lord Ponsonby, however had been detained longer at Constantinople than he expected, and as he did not think it proper that two ambassadors should be at Constantinople at the same time, Sir C. Vaughan had been instructed to remain at Malta to await Lord Ponsonby's arrival, in order to communicate with him on public business. Since the
 1503 1504
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  was anxious that
 1535 1536
 Lord John Russell  wished to say a few words on the question now before the House. He did not think the question
 1530 1531
 Lord John Russell  replied, that he was desirous the Boundaries of Boroughs Bill should go into Committee, where he should be glad of any suggestions which would render the Bill more perfect. He was bound, however, to add, that he had no expectation of its passing into a law during the present session.
 Mr. Villiers  was anxious to say one word with reference to what had fallen from some of the hon. Members who were on the Poor-law Committee. They had implied that the Committee could not conduct its inquiries with any advantage, because there was no adequate means provided for one party to the inquiry, namely, the poor being represented there; and that this arose, as they said, because the Committee had not assented to the proposition that was made, that some person should be appointed for that purpose. This was but a partial statement of what had occurred in the Committee. The question had been deliberately discussed, and those who purported to represent the poor had been asked to suggest any plan by which this object would be effected. And what had they proposed? He thought it was the proposition of the hon. Member for Fins-bury. Why, that a Commission should he appointed; by the Crown to go into the agricultural districts, and there to collect evidence to show the working of the law, and the opinion of the poor on this subject; and that the Home Secretary should recommend the persons who should be appointed, or as it was proposed by another, that the Home Secretary should nominate a person who should attend to the interests of the poor on the Committee. What was immediately said to this proposal? Why, that the present Commissioners were appointed by the Crown on the recommendation of the Home Secretary, and that all the evidence on which the Bill proceeded was collected by persons who were named by Commis-
 1537 1538 1539
 Mr. Harvey  thought he might venture to offer a suggestion to the House which it would be convenient to follow, and which might be regarded as more opportune at the present moment, inasmuch as the noble Lord (J. Russell) had given notice of his intention, whenever this matter was disposed of, to name a very important Committee on the subject of Church leases. The suggestion was this, that before any Member was appointed on a Committee, he should undergo a craniological investigation by the hon. Member for Finsbury, those only being selected who had all the requisite pretensions to the situation they should be called upon to fill. He was quite willing to subscribe to the accuracy of the lecture on the head of the hon. Chairman of the Committee, courtesy had been the prevailing characteristic of all his proceedings. He wished his hon. Friend (Mr. Wakley) had also examined the head of the hon. Member for Berkshire, for then the cause would in a great degree have been explained—possibly by the extraordinary development of caution or secretiveness why they had not been informed beforehand of the precise nature and objects of his present motion. At the same time he thought this motion both intelligible and useful. It consisted of two parts. The object of the first was that the hon. Member for Berkshire might be allowed to imitate his example by retiring from the Committee; the other was, that the Committee should be called on to report when it had finished the investigation
 1532 1533 l l l l 1534 l l., l s s s s s s s l l
 Mr. Harvey  said, that with regard to the fitness of the parties he knew nothing; but after all that had been said about great anxiety for the public benefit and regard for public feeling what would the country think if the right hon. Gentleman and the House allowed a question of that sort to pass without something more than a speech? The subject related to the economy of expenditure, and, that being the case, he would take the liberty of saying a few words on it. He had always understood that when an ambassador was sent out he was not only to be paid a salary, but was also to have a substantial outfit. Now, he did not understand that because that gentleman appointed to the embassy had been arrested when only half seas over, and had been called to come back, he was to cancel his claim to some salary, in addition to what he had received as an outfit. That was the only point with which the country, had to do. It was the economy of the transaction, and not the raging hostility between parties, or the clashing interests of diplomacy, or the proposition laid down, that it would be dangerous to the interests of the country to have any persons representing the Sovereign of less weight than an ambassador. Now he could see no reason, when Lord Ponsonby wished to come home, why another ambassador should have been sent and the country burthened with an additional outfit and an additional salary. As it appeared Lord Ponsonby did not wish to come home—on the contrary he wished to remain at Constantinople, and the country was to be put to additional expense on that account, he therefore, hoped,
 1505
 Mr. Fazakerley  said, that after the appeal which had been made to him by the hon. Member for Berkshire, the House would perhaps indulge him for a few moments with its attention while he offered a few observations upon what had just been stated by the hon. Member for Berkshire. He, however, should not be induced to enter into any of those general heads of complaint which the hon. Member had now, for the first time, urged against the Committee; but he thought they would be found equally as exaggerated as the statements made by the hon. Gentleman on a former occasion. The course which it would best become him to take would be, as shortly and plainly as possible to describe to the House the general course which the Committee had taken in the discharge of the duty confided to them, and he hoped he might be permitted to say, that in any part which he had taken in the Committee, and in any question which he had thought it his duty to put to the witness under examination, it had been his most anxious wish—and he should not have discharged his duty had he acted otherwise—to put such questions as occurred to his mind, in manner and substance, so as to avoid giving any feelings of unnecessary pain. It was of course the privilege of every Member of the Committee to put questions to any witness that was called before it, and he (Mr. Fazakerley) was quite certain it was his own
 1519 1520 1521 1522
 Mr. Walter  did not know whether the House would permit him to say a few words strictly in explanation upon two or three of the points to which the hon. Chairman of the Poor-law Committee had just adverted. First, with regard to "the scenes," which the hon. Member said was an allusion which he did not clearly understand. As the hon. Chairman did not seem anxious to enter upon an explanation of them, he would not press his allusion to them further. "They were "scenes," however, which he believed had been communicated by the hon. Gentleman to the Speaker, and at which the rev. Gentleman whose petition he had presented could not have been present, as strangers were excluded from the Committee-room during the period of their occurrence. He would, not however, press the allusion further, as the hon. Gentleman appeared averse to it. As to the questions put by him to the various witnesses, which the hon. Member had said amounted to the number of 3,370, that, he asserted, was the best proof of the great hardship to which he had been exposed in conducting this inquiry. He had no account of the number of questions which had been put by the Committee up to the present time: but up to the conclusion of the Droxford and the Petworth cases, he had seen an estimate of the number of questions asked on each side; and that the House might not be led to suppose that the Commissioners and the poor had fought their
 1523
 Mr. Walter  would have no hesitation in withdrawing the latter part of his motion, confining it to the production of the ninth day's evidence.
 Mr. Walter  said, that it was with great regret that he found himself under the necessity of bringing under the notice of the House the present state of the Poor-law inquiry, as connected with the facts stated in the petition which he had presented on a previous day from the rev. Mr. Dewdney. Whatever might have been his anticipations at the outset of the proceedings of the Committee, from its construction, and the well known opinions of the decided majority of its members upon the question, they had, as that petition in part evinced, been fully verified. But, in saying that, he hoped that it was unnecessary to guard himself against the imputation of casting any obloquy upon the characters of those hon. Gentlemen with whom he must decline acting any longer. Their longer standing in that House, and the greater experience of many of them in its forms, and in the general proceedings of Committees made it almost a fearful step in him to withdraw from any further co-operation with them. At the same time, the situation in which he had been placed, by having so
 1508 1509 "Eastbourne Vicarage, March 18, 1837. "SIR,—I am sorry to trespass a second time upon your Committee, but feel that I am not at liberty to let a matter worthy of your attention pass without notice; it is the dietary of this union. The able-bodied pauper inmate has not enough to eat. The allowance is only six ounces of bread, and one ounce of cheese for breakfast and supper, daily; and for dinner, meat putting sixteen ounces once in the week, and sixteen ounces of suet-pudding twice in the week, these with potatoes; the dinner for the four remaining days being seven ounces of bread and one ounce of cheese. I beg, Sir, that your Committee will do me the favour to consider whether this is sufficient to maintain an able-bodied labourer, to enable him to resume his occupation, when an opportunity offers. I request of them to do the case the justice to call before them the medical officers of unions, to inquire into this matter. I am a great advocate for the right administration of the Poor-law, and am fully aware of the necessity there is for keeping the dietary of the able-bodied in the workhouse, below that of the able-bodied labourer out of the house; but, Sir, I am no advocate for starving the poor, and making it desirable to the man who cannot keep himself to inhabit a prison rather than a workhouse. The Lewes House of Correction dietary allows five ounces more of bread, besides one pint of soup daily, than that of our workhouse. I have made known these things to the Poor-law Commissioners, and have also superadded the (to me) astounding fact, that though, in the memory of the oldest inhabitant, fever of a malignant and fatal character has not been known in our workhouse; yet, since the introduction of the dietary now used, very many have died of typhus. To this they have
 1510 "I am, Sir, your obedient Servant, "THOMAS PITMAN." 1511 1512 "We, the undersigned farmers and others, having been informed that in the evidence given before the Select Committee of the hon. House of Commons on the Poor-law Amendment Act, it was stated that the day wages of agricultural labourers, and the price of task work generally, have risen in consequence of the operation of the Poor-law Amendment Act, and the condition of the poor is bettered thereby, do declare that, as refers to our own immediate neighbourhood, there is no foundation whatever for such a statement, but that, on the contrary, although the money paid for day labour and task work is in a trifling degree advanced in some instances, yet that that advance is entirely owing to the advanced price of wheat, and that the labourer cannot earn so large a portion of the necessaries of life as heretofore, which will plainly appear from the circumstance that while the price of labour has advanced only ten per cent., the price of flour has advanced full thirty per cent. 1513 "That the Committee will, when the cases of West Hampnett and Droxford are concluded, proceed to inquire into the administration of relief under the Poor-law Commissioners in
 1514 "None of the examinations which I have seen at all touch upon some of the greatest cruelties arising from the mode of carrying this law into effect. The unrelenting harshness with which widows are treated ought to be held up to the reprobation of all men. At the moment when they are in the deepest distress from the loss of their husbands, their misery is added to, either by submitting to have their children torn from them, or by all starving together at home. The guardians, it is true, offer to receive some of the children into the house, but they well
 1515 "The wife sickly, six children, eldest a girl under ten. The man earned during winter 8 s s s d s s d l s d 1516 l s d 1517 1518
 Mr. Wakley  said, that it was with deep regret that he took any share in the present discussion, for it was his opinion that it was premature. He had not been aware of the intention of the hon. Member for Berkshire to bring forward his Motion. Had he been aware of it, he should have told the hon. Member that he could not concur in it. The speech of that hon. Member would lead the House and the country to conclude that a majority, a vast majority, of the Poor-law Committee were in favour of the continuance of the present Poor-law Amendment Act. He hoped the continuance of this inquiry would lead to an opposite result. His opinions were as hostile to the working of that measure as they were before he entered into the investigation; but as the Committee had only completed its inquiry into two unions, and had commenced with a third, it appeared to him that the hon. Member for Berkshire was only drawing the House into a conclusion which he would be the first to regret, in calling upon the Committee to make its
 1524 1525 1526 Cries of 1527 Hear, hear!" 1528
 Sir A. Agnew  rose, for the purpose of vindicating the character of the rev. Mr. Dewdney from the attack which had been made on it by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fazakerley). In the course of last year, he had had occasion to correspond with that rev. gentleman, who was incumbent of Portsea, on the subject of a bill which he was known to have very much at heart. In the course of the correspondence, Mr. Dewdney expressed his anxiety to place the melancholy condition to which the poor were reduced by the operation of the Poor-law Amendment Act under the consideration of some active and intelligent Member of Parliament. As he (Sir A. Agnew) was aware that the hon. Member for Berkshire had bestowed great attention on the subject of the Poor-laws, he had transmitted Mr. Dewdney's letter to him, and that circumstance had led to a correspondence between the hon. Member for Berkshire and Mr. Dewdney, and to Mr. Dewdney's subsequent examination before the Committee. As he (Sir A. Agnew) had thus unwittingly been the cause of bringing Mr. Dewdney's opinions before the Committee, and of subjecting him to some very disagreeable remarks, it was only an act of justice on his part towards Mr. Dewdney to declare, that both in his private capacity, and in his professional character, he was a most amiable and respectable man.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, in repelling the attacks that had been made on different parties, no one had come forward as the defender of Mr. Urquhart; and as the noble Lord had defended one ambassador after another, he believed it would be only necessary for some Member to make some observations on that Gentleman to call up the noble Lord to make a fourth speech in his defence. It certainly appeared, that when they had just come to the point when they could see whether that Gentleman could swim they had sent out another to supersede him. No doubt that gentleman, Sir Charles Vaughan, might be the fittest, but nevertheless to send him out during the absence of the chief was a practical attack on Mr. Urquhart. The noble Lord said Lord Ponsonby had applied for leave of absence, and he had granted the application But the noble Lord had gone further, and said not only that he had granted leave of absence, but that if it had not been made he should have been disposed to order an ambassador home, in order that he might be re-impregnated with the constitutional doctrines of old England. Now, if such a rule were good as regarded countries generally,  á fortiori, in partibus 1507
  Sir Stratford Canning  wished to take that opportunity of putting a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, respecting certain circumstances connected with our foreign policy. The question to which he was about to call the attention of the noble Lord was, the present state of the British embassy at Constantinople, and he did not bring it forward for the purpose of making any charge against the inefficiency of his Majesty's Government in foreign parts, but, on the contrary, to mention circumstances connected with our diplomatic appointments in that country which the noble Lord would, he thought, be glad to have an opportunity of explaining to the country. It must be in the recollection of the House and the country, that Lord Ponsonby, as he believed, had applied for leave of absence some time ago; and it would also be in their recollection that three or four months since Sir Charles Vaughan, who was on the retired list, bad been raised to the rank of ambassador, and had been sent out on a special mission to Constantinople. It appeared, however, from the public journals, that he was still at Malta, that be was not to proceed to the court of the Sultan, and that Lord Ponsonby was still at his post at Constantinople; the consequence of which was, that we had two ambassadors at a considerable expense to the country, and not only two ambassadors but two secretaries of legation; in fact, four persons were now paid for performing the business of the British embassy at Constantinople. He thought the secretary of legation might have performed the duty in the absence of Lord Ponsonby. It was also worthy of remark, that another anomaly had taken place, and that Mr.
 1502
 Sir Stratford Canning  said, if the House were satisfied with the noble Lord's explanation, it was not for him to press the question further; but he might be permitted to say, that the explanation did not satisfy him. With respect to the mission on which he went to Madrid, it was well known that Madrid was not his final destination, but that he was sent out to that capital with reference to the affairs of Portugal, and that his being extraordinary ambassador was merely incidental. Unfortunately, however, owing to circumstances and the nature of the instructions he received, that embassy came to a total failure.
 Mr. A. Trevor  had not been disposed to take a part in this discussion, but felt
 1529
 Viscount Palmerston , in answer to the first question of the noble Lord, begged
 1501
 Viscount Palmerston  wished the House to understand that, in his opinion, it would be very unjust towards persons employed in diplomatic situations, when they had performed their duty zealously and faithfully, to refuse them permission to come home and refresh themselves by reviving their English feelings, and witnessing more closely the operation of those constitutional doctrines in which they had been brought up. And if English Ministers abroad did not make applications of that nature, he should feel disposed to order them home. Lord Ponsonby had been abroad for five years, and had performed his duty at Constantinople in such a way as would entitle him to any indulgence which the Government could extend to him. He would add, that when an ambassador was absent one half of his salary was suspended; and so far, as regarded expense there was a saving. Sir Charles Vaughan, besides, was not sent as ambassador, but on a special mission. The expenses of that mission, of course, would be paid out of the public funds; but he would not receive any salary, but only his expenses during his stay at Malta. Certainly some outfits were necessary, but they were not outfits such as
 1506
 Viscount Sandon  wished to put two questions to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. The first related to the prevention of British steam-vessels from carrying passengers from the coast of France to places on the coast of Spain; and the second to a decree passed by Mendizabal, imposing a duty on British coal deposited at dépôts on the Spanish coast for the use of British steam-vessels. He wished to know whether the noble Lord was aware of the facts which he had adverted to, and whether he had received any official intelligence respecting the decree of Mendizabal?
 Lord John Russell  said, that he considered it to be his duty to move, in accordance with what had been done by that House on other occasions, that an address of condolence be presented to Her Majesty the Queen Dowager on the melancholy occasion of his late Majesty's decease. Her Majesty the Queen Dowager had had the melancholy satisfaction of doing everything that it was possible even for a person in humble life to do, to assuage the pain under which his late Majesty suffered during the last days of his existence. He believed, that there was no one who was not aware that her Majesty the Queen Dowager had actually, and to a very great extent, risked her own health by her constant, unremitting and sleepless attendance upon his late Majesty. He felt it right also to observe, that her conduct on that trying occasion had been only such as his Majesty and the country might have expected from the constant care and faithful affection with which she had ever attended to the wishes and desires of her royal husband. He thought he need say no more to induce the House to join in a message to her Majesty the Queen Dowager, assuring her of the deep and unabated respect with which they regarded her.
 Lord John Russell  appeared at the bar, and said that he was charged with a Message from her Majesty; which he immediately brought up.
 Lord John Russell  then said, it is my duty on the present occasion to move an Address of this House to the Queen, in answer to her Majesty's roost gracious
 1555 1556 1557 1558 1559 1560 1561
 Sir R. Peel  said, although my attendance here to-day is not unaccompanied by pain, yet the pain I should feel would be far more acute and more lasting if I were unable to join in the mournful ceremony which we are this evening called upon to go through. Only seven short years have elapsed since I, standing then in the situation which the noble Lord who has just sat down at present fills, had to perform the duty of proposing to the House of Commons that it should offer to his late Majesty an assurance of our condolence on the death of his lamented predecessor, and at the same time to express their anxious hope that the reign upon which he was then about to enter might be long and prosperous. If that prosperity could have been insured alone by the devotion of a Monarch to the best interests of the country, the latter wish would have been completely accomplished, for never did any sovereign obtain more entirely than did William 4th the gratitude and affection of his people. I need hardly remind the House that one of those wishes was disappointed. The hope which we expressed of a long reign has unfortunately not been fulfilled; but when we expressed another hope—namely, that his Majesty might enjoy the respect and affections of his people—the House of Commons conveyed a wish which has been more than realised. To me it is now a melancholy consolation to be permitted to second this motion, and to unite with the noble Lord opposite in proposing to this House that we should offer to the memory of the late King a sincere tribute of national respect. The becoming reserve which secludes a sovereign from the ordinary in-
 1562 1563 1564
 Lord Stanley  said, that however unsatisfactory it might be that after sitting for so long a period as from February to June, they should be compelled to close the Session with so many important measures unfinished, and so few brought to a completion, he should not do justice to her Majesty's Ministers if he did not declare his entire acquiescence in the propriety of the course proposed by them under existing circumstances of postponing the further consideration in the present Session of those measures. He agreed with his noble Friend in the difficulty, and indeed in the almost impossibility, of carrying forward and discussing measures of great importance, not only when the patience of the House was nearly exhausted, but when the near approach of a dissolution must render the attendance of Members un frequent and reluctant; since every man would feel that his private affairs and interests rendered his presence elsewhere necessary. As he agreed in the postponement of those great measures, so he agreed generally in the selection of the measures to be proceeded with. He thought the measures respecting the criminal law had been received with so much favour, and had excited so little difference of opinion, that they ought to be carried into practise;
 1596 1597 1598 caveat 1599 1600 juste milieu
 Sir G. Clerk  did not rise to oppose the motion of the noble Lord, having been one of those who supported a similar one in 1830, and he congratulated the noble Lord that the powerful arguments which failed to produce a conviction in his mind had now so far satisfied him that he had been induced to make use of them himself. The noble Lord had endeavoured to chalk out a middle course, but, as a natural result, in attempting to please everybody, he had given very little satisfaction to any one. The noble Lord, had, however, made one discovery, which, though late and unexpected, afforded some gratification to those who wished to see the stability of the Church maintained. He had acknowledged the necessity of doing something to remedy the great evils which prevailed in Scotland in consequence of the want of sufficient religious instruction, and he congratulated her Majesty's Government that they were able at last to give an unqualified admission (an admission which hitherto it had been difficult to obtain) that it was the bounden duty of the Government to provide sufficient instruction for the people out of the Established Church. The hon. Member drew a broad distinction between those who sat on that (the Opposition) side of the House, and those on the other (the Ministerial) side, whom he characterised by the more popular name of Liberals, as being anxious to promote the improvement of the institutions of the country, while the Conservatives were opposed to every thing in the shape of change and amelioration. The justice of such a representation he altogether denied. They were doubtless opposed to hasty and reckless changes—to crude and undigested legislation, which either gave rise to tedious and interminable discussions so as altogether to suspend the other public business of the country, or became law in
 1603
 Mr. Goulburn  did not think there would be any difference of opinion in the House as to the propriety of erecting a monument to one of the country's greatest naval commanders. He must, however, draw the attention of the House to a report on the state of Switzerland, which had been drawn
 1612 1613
 Mr. Goulbourn  stated, that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had asserted, that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock had not been paid for his report; that he had been only paid his expenses  per diem.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, if the hon. Member wished to know the grounds of his pension, he would find his length of services, whether good or bad, recorded in public documents; and if he referred to the Act of Parliament, he would see the reason why he received the pension.
 Lord J. Russell : In consequence of what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite in the course of the debate, in which the noble Lord had made allusion to a contingency which he earnestly hoped was a most improbable one, that the throne of this country might be vacated, and the crown might be inherited by a foreign sovereign, and that it might be necessary for Parliament to provide for the government of the country in the interval that must occur in that case, he felt it necessary to say, that a Bill to provide for that unfortunate contingency would be brought in before the close of the present Session. An hon. Gentleman near him, had alluded to the sudden distress that might be expected among the poorer classes in Ireland, and had recommended the Government to ask for power to administer relief. He did not think it prudent to adopt that course. It was not necessary nor advisable to commit further powers to Government than those they were already possessed of. With respect to himself, he would only say, that in the course of that Session he
 1608
 Lord John Russell : On entering on the question for the consideration of the House this evening, I will merely say, I am quite sure no Member of the House, and especially the right hon. Baronet opposite, meant any want of respect for the Crown, or showed any indisposition to comply with the usages observed on such an occasion as that of last evening. I must also say, that the whole proceedings of yesterday exhibited but one unanimous feeling of loyalty to the Crown, and a resolute determination not to allow any political duty to interfere with the Address of condolence, or the general wish to show proper marks of respect to the Queen. I now proceed to what is more matter of political concern, and one which entirely regards the advice which has been given by those Ministers in whom her Majesty has been pleased to
 1583 1584 1585 1586 1587 1588 1589 1590 1591 1592 1593
 Mr. C. Barclay  observed, that the hon. Member for Finsbury had said, that this was not a charge for expenses, but a salary; and the constitutional objection was, that a Member of Parliament was allowed to receive a salary, whereas if a Member took any office under Government of 10 l. 1618
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, it had been at his suggestion, or that of his department, that the hon. Member had been sent to Switzerland to make these inquiries. He admitted that it was the duty of the Foreign Ministers to procure all the information in their power with reference to commercial matters, and he could bear testimony to the able manner in which of late years, since he had been acquainted with the proceedings, they had fulfilled this duty, and the valuable information they had communicated in their returns. But every man must be aware that there were kinds of information which a Foreign Minister, however disposed had not the means of procuring—a fact which the Report in question illustrated. This Government had understood that Switzerland was disposed to join the commercial union of Germany. Was it possible to procure the requisite information from a Foreign Minister, who was confined to one place, and unable to visit the different cantons and manufactories?
 1617
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  would not now say whether the duties of the President of the Board of Trade were properly discharged by himself or not, but he could not allow the attack made on it by the hon. Member for Middlesex, who denied its utility, to pass unnoticed. He had only to remind the House of the benefits conferred by it on the commerce of the country when a lamented friend of his presided over it. The hon. Member had on this, as on former occasions, exhibited the most perfect ignorance of the duties of that department. In fact, the hon. Member knew nothing whatever about the matter, or he would not condemn such a board as unnecessary. He concurred in his estimate of the difficulties attending the subject of drawbacks; there was no question more embarrassed, less understood by the House, or less easy to bring to a safe settlement. By a new arrangement a considerable sum might be saved to the revenue, but it should be recollected that the interests which had grown up under the present system were great and various. It would be unjust to attempt to carry through a measure relating to this subject in the short period of the Session which remained to them.
 Mr. Maclean  rose only to draw the attention of the Government to some points connected with the Poor-laws. He wished them to take some step in the appointment of chaplains to the various unions. He had stated his intention on a former occasion to move for a return of those unions to which chaplains had been appointed, and of those unions in which permission was not given to paupers, being Dissenters,
 1607
 Mr. Robinson  said, it was impossible for him, consistently with his duty, not to express disapprobation at the conduct of the noble Lord with respect to Lower Canada. He was willing to admit, that in the present state of affairs, considering the unexpected demise of his late Majesty, no other course was now open to him; but the noble Lord had really shown too much vacillation and delay upon this subject. After bringing forward the resolutions, and obtaining such a triumphant majority in their favour, it was not fair, it was not right to allow them to remain for several weeks a dead letter on the votes, and now to call for a vote of credit in order to pay the arrear of salaries
 1605 l.
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, that he would not follow the hon. Member for Middlesex in the line of argument he had adopted. He thought nevertheless, that the hon. Gentleman would have qualified his eulogy if he had reflected that any disciple of the restrictive system who might have been sent on a similar mission to that of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, would have been equally successful in collecting facts in favour of his own theories. He did not think that either the right hon. Member for Cambridge or the hon. Member for Middlesex had met the objection of the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge. That objection was founded on the constitutional jealousy with which that House had always regarded the payment of public money to it members, who, previously to receiving that money, did not vacate their seats. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), had alluded to the practice approved of by the French Government; the right hon. Gentleman ought to have told the House, first whether the gentlemen whom he received were members of the French Camber of Deputies; and secondly, whether it was the practice in France, that members of the French Chamber of Deputies on assuming offices of emolument were returned to their constituencies. The system which the right hon. Gentleman had defended was one of which there could be no other more corrupt or more insidious.
 Mr. G. F. Young  gave credit to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, for the course he intended to pursue, and could not help thinking, if Government would but discard the support, feeble as it was, and utterly, as he believed, foreign to the sympathies of the people of England, which they received from the Radicals in that House, and throw themselves on the good sense and feeling of the country, they would find, in a gain of twenty for one, abundant compensation for their loss.
 The Speaker  said, the right hon. Baronet had stated the practice of the House most correctly. The House would remember, that on the bringing up the Message there had arisen a considerable cry of "Off hats;" and he had taken the course he did in order to save the time of the House. With respect to the insinuation made against the right hon. Baronet, he must say, that no such conduct had come under his notice.
 Dr. Bowring  remarked, that the quantity of beetroot sugar consumed in France in the year 1828–29 had amounted to 4,000,000 of kilogrammes, while in the last year it had advanced to 70,000,000 of kilogrammes, and the duty it paid towards the revenue had reached 2,000,000 l.
 Mr. Kearsley  objected to the expense of an excursion of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock being paid out of the public money, He had no idea that the hon. Member should be allowed to take his pleasure at the expense of the country. The hon. Member for Middlesex talked of principle, and yet he would pay the hon. Member for Kilmarnock the expenses of his excursion out of the public money. They would
 1616 l.
 Mr. Roebuck  expressed his dissent to the observations of both the noble Lords who had preceded him with respect to Canada, which was in a state of combustion similar to that of the United Provinces of America in 1774. The Canadians had, by public resolutions, boldly declared their intention of throwing off the authority of this country, and he would tell the noble Lord that they would treat his Act, whenever he passed it, as they had treated his resolutions, unless, indeed, their rights and liberties were secured by it. Her Majesty's Ministers seemed to take up their present position on the supposition that the feeling out of doors was in their favour. It was true that the accession of the young Sovereign to the Throne might naturally excite the enthusiasm of the people, but there was sufficient discernment abroad to discover that her Majesty's Ministers wished to turn that feeling to their own profit. But there was reason to believe that her Majesty was well acquainted with the real character and state of parties in that House, and that she understood the difference between what were called the Liberals and the Conservatives. Both her Majesty and the people, he believed, knew that the one side wished for certain improvements, while the other side was opposed to all changes. He thought the people of England entertained a belief that the education of her Majesty had been such as to make her fully capable of understanding all matters relating to the political condition of the people, without having recourse to the vague modes of expression which were used in that House. The enthusiasm out of doors went a great way, but it would not carry her Majesty's Ministers through, unless they attended to the wishes of the people. The Ministers had now a new lease of the people's
 1601 Cheers 1602
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared by what had fallen from the noble Lord that in a few weeks that House was to separate, after having sat for four months without agreeing, with a single exception, to any one measure of importance. He admitted that the course proposed by the noble Lord was the only one that could be adopted under the circumstances of the case; but it was a matter of grave consideration for the people of England what had produced that state of circumstances, and what steps were calculated to avert its recurrence. Of this he (Mr. Hume) was quite sure, that if the House again met, with parties balanced as they now were, the same results would follow. He was convinced that public business could not go on unless one party had a decided majority over the other. He did not differ from the noble Lord's view of the course which the House ought now to adopt. He regretted, however, that the noble Lord had not said anything about
 1594 1595
 Mr. Hume  observed, that generally those who were the most ignorant were also the readiest to cry out. What he wanted was, that the establishment of the Board of Trade should be directly connected with the Treasury, as, at the present moment, its proceedings were clogged by the necessity of communication with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He, however, had not denied the utility of the Board of Trade. He thought that the duty on sugar ought to be taken off as soon as sugar should be generally made from beetroot; he hoped that such a thing as a sugar excise would never be tolerated. If any reduction were practicable, the people ought to have the benefit of it.
 Mr. Hume  thought the sum paid by Government by way of drawback or bounty was far too large. He wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman meant to bring the subject of drawbacks under the consideration of the House? The chymical experiments of Dr. Ure had, he thought, sufficiently proved, that drawbacks were allowed on a quantity far above the real amount. He thought the Board of Trade was very neglectful of its duties; it was an inefficient and useless establishment, and he strongly reprobated the keeping up an unnecessary board at a great expense. The Sugar Duties, he contended, should be reduced from 24 s. s.
 Mr. Hume  thought that the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge had been so accustomed to payment, that he thought no good report could be made unless it were paid for. He however could assure the right hon. Gentleman, that there was a great difference of opinion as to the competency of the British resident Ministers abroad. The right hon. Gentleman did not appear to know what had been the object of the Report of his hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock; that object had been to make known the state of a country in which no restrictive regulation on trades obtained—to make known the commercial state of Switzerland. The conclusions to which his hon. Friend had come were most valuable, and if his hon. Friend had not been paid, and was not to be paid, then his hon. Friend would be a most ill-used man. He asserted that the labourer was worthy of his hire. What conclusion had his hon. Friend arrived at? At this—namely, that under circumstances of great inconvenience in every branch of trade, Switzerland had been enabled to compete with every other, country, and to supply France, England the United States of North America, and indeed every country which had pretended by restriction to protect its trade. His hon. Friend had acquitted himself admirably, and had shown the absurdity of all restrictions. The document before them proved that, and it related to the only country which afforded materials for proving that. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the title of certain chapters in the Report. He thought the right hon. Gentleman ought to know how very necessary it was in a document of that nature to classify every kind of information, and thereby to simplify references. He did not think that the right hon. Gentleman had been quite fair—he would not say kind in his remarks. He thought that his hon. Friend notwithstanding there were British Ministers re-
 1615
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 1610
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when the question had been put to him formerly he had given the necessary explanations. He was of opinion that the great name of Nelson deserved commemoration, and he knew no more appropriate place in which to erect a monument to him than the square which bore the name of the spot on which he had achieved his last victory. But from private communications he had learned that a private subscription had been raised for the purpose contemplated by his hon. and gallant Friend. When the question had formerly been mooted, he had said, that the Government would give every facility to the promotion of the object which the subscribers had in view; that he relied on the disposition of the public to add to the subscription; that, on that very account, he felt reluctant to interfere in the matter; and, that if the subscriptions should prove insufficient, then the Government might come forward.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  must say, that when the hon. Member for Kilmarnock had been first employed by the Government, it had been by the direction of the right hon. Member for Harwich; that the next time that he had been employed was when the commercial relations between this country and France were under consideration. He had then been employed in conjunction with a gentleman, now her Majesty's Minister at the Court of Madrid, but then a Commissioner of Customs. It was not then considered derogatory to Lord Granville that those gentlemen had been sent out to perform particular duties. It had been for the purpose of following up the same course of inquiry with regard to commercial matters, that the hon. Member had been sent to Switzerland. With regard to the question of remuneration he could affirm that no sum whatever had been received for the Report; no sum had been received by the hon. Member, nor would any sum be received. If he pleased he might stop there, but he thought it right to add, that although the hon. Member had received no remuneration, yet he had received the amount of those expenses which he had incurred by travelling. These expenses had not, however, been arbitrarily awarded, but were dispensed according to the scale known in public offices and allowed to the Commissioners of Customs when travelling. The course of which his right hon. Friend complained was not only justified by former practice, but also by the proceedings of foreign governments. He
 1614
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  in moving the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means, would make some reference to the motions that stood upon the paper; and he trusted, that if his statement were satisfactory, hon. Gentlemen opposite would not go into any discussion on their respective motions. Part of that statement might be anticipated from that which had fallen from the hon. Baronet, the Member for Edinburgh—he referred to certain parts of the Queen's hereditary revenues in Scotland, which were derived from bishop's lands and teinds. He should say, that it behoved the present Parliament not to take any steps affecting any particular portion of her Majesty's hereditary revenue; and he thought there was no Gentleman in that House who would not shrink from so indelicate and inexpedient a course as the raising of any discussion upon them. The same rule applied to the four and a-half per cent duties, appropriated as they were by the existing law, the whole of the expense of the ecclesiastical establishment in those islands where these duties were levied, being laid upon them. He should, at a future time, have an opportunity of explaining any alteration that it might be deemed expedient to make in them, and he thought it would be advantageous to all parties that the discussion of them should be reserved to a time when the whole question might properly be taken into consideration. In recommending hon. Members not to press their motions at present, he would only say, that that course involved no abandonment of principle. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving, that the House resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it would be in the recollection of the Committee that he had last year, for the first
 1609
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in adverting to what had fallen from some hon. Gentlemen opposite he thought he should be able to show, and he would on that point appeal with confidence to public opinion, that much exaggeration had been indulged in with reference to the measures which had engaged the attention of Parliament. With respect to the public importance of the measures it had passed he would refer to the Municipal Reform Bill, which had been passed by the present Parliament, a measure second only in importance to the Reform Bill for the good which it had created, and for the evil it had destroyed; if it had done nothing else it had destroyed an irresponsible authority, and if its advantages had not been equally extended to all classes of her Majesty's subjects, the fault did not lie with her Majesty's Ministers, who had carried a Bill for that purpose through the House of Commons. He said this as much in defence of the House of Commons as of her Majesty's Ministers. Did hon. Gentlemen think that in passing the Tithe Bill a question of great importance had been settled? The Bill was one that had long been desired by the agricultural classes, and from which he anticipated much good. They had also brought to an amicable close the claims of the Dissenters.
 1606
 Mr. Wakley  said, when his constituents asked him, as they soon would, why so little had been done this Session, he should be compelled to answer, it was because the Tories would not allow, practically, good measures which had been proposed to become law. It was in consequence of the opposition of the Tories that the Irish Municipal Bill, the Imprisonment for Debt Bill, and every other excellent measure had not passed. In fact, while the House of Commons continued as it now was, Tory-logged, no advance in legislation need be expected by the people. He complained that the noble Lord (Russell) had not been sufficiently candid in the expositions of his intentions to his supporters on that (the Ministerial) side of the House. He did not see why the present Parliament should be dissolved with such extreme haste. He did not see why it should not sit till November; besides, a Parliament about to be dissolved was of all others most likely to work well for popular interests. If Parliament were dissolved in a month they might be called upon to meet in November; and if the Conservatives were to join with the Whigs, the Radicals would have to go to the other side of the House, and be content to remain there for the next six years to come. An amusing prospect, no doubt, which he saw excited the merriment of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. He wanted to know, then, what the noble Lord meant to do with respect to the Ballot, with respect to the repeal of the Corn-laws, and with respect to the extension of the franchise. He had supported the present Ministers because he could not get better; from a Tory Government he expected nothing. Hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite had not popular virtue enough to make even a bidding for place. They would not announce to the people the measures they would support, while in the mean time, with civil equality of rights to all classes of her Majesty's sub-
 1604
 Mr. Wakley  objected as much as any member to persons receiving money for secret services. He went farther, and thought that all pensions received by persons in that House ought to be discontinued, unless for public services expressed, acknowledged, or rendered to the state. Would the right hon. Gentleman agree to a list of pensions paid to persons in that House, being laid before it? He believed the right hon. Gentleman received a pension of 2,000 l. Oh! oh! l. l. l.
 Mr. Sharman Crawford  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord to the state of the poor in Ireland. As the Poor-law Bill must now be unavoidably postponed, and as there was, unfortunately, great cause to apprehend extensive destitution amongst the poorer classes in that country, he thought it would be advisable for the noble Lord to ask for power to expend some money in relieving those unfortunate people who might require it, which advance might afterwards be repaid out of the Poor-rates.
 Sir E. Codrington  wished to ask whether there were any intentions to erect a statue to Lord Nelson at the public expense, instead of its cost being defrayed by private subscription?
 Sir Henry Parnell  considered the document in question as one of great value, because it put beyond doubt the fact, that where the principles of free trade were acted on, the greatest advantage resulted to the country. In Switzerland it was no theory, but the law of the country; and the result was, that for a long series of time the trade of the country had enjoyed the greatest prosperity.
 Sir James Graham  begged the attention of the House for a moment. In an evening paper,  The True Sun, 1582
 Mr. Hutt  said, that he had frequent occasion to communicate with the Board of Trade, and was happy to bear testimony to the ability, assiduity, and business habits shown by its members. He regretted the attack made on it by the hon. Member for Middlesex; and declared that he thought the Board of the greatest importance to the commercial interests of the country.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, there were matters which Ministers abroad could not be so competent to inquire about as the hon. Member. Any matters that could be stated in answer to questions from Government could be furnished by Ministers in their official capacity; but when it came to inquiries into details of commercial matters, these could only be made by persons well acquainted with the subject.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the surprise with which he had first learned the noble Lord's intention of moving the nomination of this Committee had not been lessened by the observations which the noble Lord had just made. The noble Lord said, he pursued this course, not with a view of adopting any proceedings in this, but in the next Parliament. Now, in the first place, hon. Members who were nominated on this Committee, might not be Members of that House in the next Session of Parliament; and secondly, any decision that this Committee might come to could be overturned by the Committee of next Session, should the House consent then to its revival. Moreover, any orders that the present Committee might issue would be powerless as soon as the present Parliament terminated, and the parties on whom such orders might be served would not be liable to the least censure if they forbore giving the requisite information. Therefore, so far as regarded the acquiring of information for a Committee that might sit hereafter, the proceeding of the noble
 1623 ex parte
 Mr. Goulburn  took the opportunity of calling attention to the fact of all the large trees at the Bayswater side of Kensington-gardens having been cut down. These gardens were a place of recreation to the inhabitants of London, and although the young trees which had been substituted might appear very pleasing in the eyes of a planter, they did not at all so in those of the public. He had been told they were old—old they were, no doubt, but they were not decayed. Unless some restraint were put upon those who had the
 1624
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to have some reason given by the noble Lord, why he persevered in the nomination of the Church-leases Committee when he had postponed the other public business. Such a course was at variance with the arrangements the noble Lord had made.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  defended the conduct of the city authorities. He thought they had done every thing that could be done; and he expressed his surprise that the hon. Member for Lambeth, who was himself a citizen and the son of a citizen, should be continually attacking the government of Newgate, while he never ventured to say anything of Horsemonger-lane gaol, with which he was more immediately connected. He recommended his hon. Friend to turn his attention to that quarter.
 Mr. Samuel O'Brien  only wished that the feeling which prompted this vote were extended to Ireland, and that something of the same kind might be done for the poor clergy of the Roman Catholic church in that country.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  considered that the principal objection to the grant was, that it was so small. It was disgraceful that so miserable a pittance should be doled out to the Catholic priesthood, and he thought that the Catholics, as free subjects of this empire, had an equal right with their Protestant brethren to the support and protection of the state for their clergy.
 Lord John Russell  said, the most gratifying part of the report was that which stated that an alteration was proposed to be made, so that all untried prisoners could be kept in separate cells. He feared, however, that it could not be carried into effect, unless the present building were pulled down, and a new one erected.
 Lord John Russell  said, all he had done was to have the order of the day read for the appointment of the Committee; and all he had to state was, that the House had ordered a Committee to be appointed. This resolution was carried in a very full House by a majority of eighty-three, and he would have proceeded immediately on the next day to have named the Committee if he had not been desirous to have some time, in order to consult hon. Gentlemen whether they would consent to become Members of the Committee. He did try several, among whom were the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, and the hon.
 1622
 Lord J. Russell  said, that with respect to the first case he had made inquiries upon the subject, but finding that it was probable that an action would be brought, he thought it would be unfair to give any answer to the hon. Member until the case had been investigated in a court of law. With respect to the other case, of defacing a statute, upon inquiry he had found that Sir F. Roe, having no doubt, from the circumstances of the party who had been accused of the transaction, that he would appear and answer the charge, had adopted the course he had pursued in the present instance. He was asked to back the warrant of the local authorities, which he had done, but had not required bail when the party was taken. He believed, that such a course was not uncommon when it was certain that the party would appear.
 Colonel Perceval  protested against such a perversion of the public funds, and de-
 1628
 Mr. Hawes  said, the alterations which had been made in Newgate were not considered by the inspectors to be improvements.
 Mr. Hawes  begged to be informed, whether the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had had his attention drawn to the two cases which appeared in  The Morning Chronicle 1621
 Mr. Hindley  thought that the vote rested upon a wrong principle, and ought, therefore, to be discontinued. If the Dissenting clergy needed relief, the Dissenting body were rich enough to support them.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson , in reference to the first topic, replied, that the matter was under consideration. With regard to the second question, there had long existed just grounds of complaint, and he had hoped that our navigation and commerce would have been relieved from the difficulties referred to by the noble Lord long before this. It was in that hope that the Government of this country had hitherto refrained from having recourse to any retaliatory measures. He could only say now, what had been stated before by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Foreign Department, that negotiations were going on, which, he believed, would lead to a satisfactory result.
 Mr. Callaghan  stated, that the clergy of the Church of Ireland were as sincere in their love of their country as any hon. Gentlemen opposite. Let hon. Gentlemen bring forward the subject on a broad basis, and then they would see if the exclusive system was or was not supported in Ireland.
 Mr. Baines  objected to that part of the grant which applied to the Dissenting clergy, upon the ground that it was not acceptable to the persons who received it. Many of the petitions sent up to that House praying for the abolition of Church-rates, had prayed at the same time that this grant might be discontinued, though the parties petitioning were Protestant Dissenters themselves. The Dissenters objected to the vote, upon the ground that if they deemed it unreasonable, that they should be called upon to pay Church-rates, because those Church-rates were applied to the support of an establishment of which they did not altogether approve, it was not very consistent that they themselves should be receiving the benefit of a grant which came in a great degree from the members of the Church. Upon that ground, he believed, it would be more acceptable to the Protestant Dissenters generally, if the grant were wholly discontinued. It was true, that Dr. Pye Smith, an eminent Dissenting divine, approved of the grant, and desired to see it continued; but he did so, because it came originally out of the privy purse of George 1st. Now it came out of the Consolidated Fund. Therefore, if the grant were put to the vote, he should oppose it, not from any distrust of the persons in whose hands it was placed, and by whom it had always been admirably
 1627
 Mr. Baines  assured the hon. Baronet that he was mistaken; the ministers of the three denominations did not approve of it.
 Sir George Sinclair  remarked, that it was in consequence of the enormities which had been perpetrated in Scotland by the adherents of the Popish faith that that country had been induced to consider the prevalence of that creed its curse and bane; and he hoped that the voice of the country would always be raised against such a system of religious belief.
 Mr. G. F. Young  complained, that this question, which was one of vital importance to British trade, had remained unsettled so long. Three or four years had elapsed since he brought it under the attention of the House, and things remained in the same state still. It was then said, that the political state of the country was so distracted, that nothing could be done. Her Majesty's Ministers might go on in that way till doomsday. He thought it would be better for them to name some definite period, say two or three months, and if, at the end of that time, their negotiations had not the desired effect, then let them have recourse to measures of retaliation. Such a declaration would materially quicken the disposition of the Spanish Government to fulfil the hopes entertained by the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade. The high discriminating duties imposed by the Spanish Government had almost destroyed the British trade to that country.
 Dr. Bowring  expressed his opinion that the House should not contaminate itself with any grants for religious purposes.
 Mr. Plumptre  declared, that he could not reconcile himself to the voting away of public money, for the support of religion the principles of which he believed to be erroneous; he should therefore divide on the Question.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his wish that the vote should be withdrawn, as it had met with so much opposition from the members of the Church of Scotland.
 Mr. Hume  objected to that part of the grant apportioned to defray a moiety of the expenses for chaplains and chapels for British subjects abroad.
 Mr. Methuen  said, that before these trees had been cut down last year, out of about 100, there was not, he believed, one which, if not absolutely dead, was not in a dying state. Some of them, too, had been blown down by the wind.
 Mr. Borthwick  observed, that he knew nothing of the opinions entertained by the clergy of Ireland but through the newspapers. He would, however, affirm, that the conduct of the clergy of England in political matters was quite irreproachable.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  believed, that the Dissenters were very much divided in opinion upon the subject. He certainly did not see why it should be discontinued as long as it was found to afford a substantial and welcome relief to many aged and respectable men. If there were any conscientious objection to the grant, the remedy lay with the Dissenters themselves, since it was not compulsory upon any man to receive a fraction of the bounty, unless he were fully disposed to do so.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  supported the vote. He did not think that the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) was authorised in stating that the grant was objected to by the majority of the Dissenting body. In the part of the country with which he was connected, he knew that it was gratefully received by many most excellent and respectable men.
 Mr. Hobhouse  observed, that when he was at the head of the Woods and Forests, he was assured by the gentleman who had the charge of these gardens, that it was essentially necessary that the greater part of these trees should be removed.
 Sir Robert Bateson  protested against the grant, and attributed the disorders of Ireland for the most part to the fatal system of education which prevailed in Maynooth. Constituted as that college was at present, such a grant would be worse than a waste of the public money.
 Sir Robert Inglis  contended, that there was no connexion whatever between the question of Church-rates and the vote now under consideration. The hon. Member for Leeds wanted a little gentle violence to be applied by some hon. Member on that side of the House proposing to negative this vote; but they understood his tactics too well to be likely to assist him in that manner. He did not think there was any reluctance in the Protestant Dissenting ministers, or in the body generally receiving this grant, and he, for one, was in favour of its continuance.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  held, that it was the duty of the Queen to provide for the means of religious instruction for all her subjects, into whatever part of her dominions they were sent on the public service.
 Lord Clements  said, that if claims were founded on antiquity, those of the Roman Catholics would be the most valid. He did not mean to say that the Roman Catholics of Ireland would refuse the as-
 1629
 Viscount Sandon  concurred with the last speaker in thinking some general provision for the Roman Catholic clergy advisable, but the question at present was this particular grant. It was admitted on all hands that the system pursued at Maynooth was extremely bad. However, though he objected to the system, he did not think that under present circumstances we ought to abandon the grant, and he should therefore, not oppose the Motion. He could not, however, but feel astonished at seeing no opposition to this vote upon the other side of the House. He should have expected to see whole benches of hon. Members starting up and declaring that they could not think of wounding Protestant consciences, by subjecting them to a payment for Catholic priests, inasmuch as they loudly protested, on the part of the Catholics, against being burthened with any payments for the support of a Protestant clergy. He repeated, that he was surprised at the torpor which seemed to have overpowered hon. Members opposite upon this occasion. If their senses had not been steeped in forgetfulness, he felt confident that they would have rushed forward to protest with one voice against such an invasion of the rights of conscience.
 Lord Sandon  wished to call the attention of her Majesty's Ministers to the manner in which the consuls abroad attended to their duties. He wished also that they would take means to put the navigation and commerce of the country on a better footing than it now stood with regard to Spain, where such high duties were levied, that they amounted almost to a prohibition of our trade with that country.
 Lord Stanley  said, before the House proceeded further, he wished to ask the noble Lord a question on a subject of considerable importance, which referred in a certain degree to the subject matter
 1661
 Lord John Russell  said, he had certainly not had any communication on the subject with the manufacturing districts; but the result of his inquiries in the metropolis was, that forgeries had not considerably increased, and that the effect of the present measure would be to afford an increased security against forgery.
 Mr. Aglionby  proposed an amendment, the object of which was, to separate these offences into two classes, making all cases of murder punishable by death, and all cases of attempts at murder subject to periods of transportation to be fixed upon. The subject had given rise to considerable discussion in the Committee, and he, for one, did not disguise his opinion, that if the punishment of death was to be continued on the Statute-book, it ought to be limited to murders alone. He hoped his Majesty's Government would have considered the question, as upon the former occasion, the punishment of death had been carried by only a very small majority. He regretted, that his hon.
 1662
 The Attorney-General  objected to the amendment. He had given his best attention to the subject, and he questioned whether the punishment of death should be confined to cases of actual murder only. The clause objected to by the hon. Member had been framed upon the suggestion of one of the most eminent judges in the land. He trusted, therefore, that the House would adopt it.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the amendment, because it would place the judge in the painful situation of deciding, in all cases that came within the meaning of the clause, whether the offence should be visited with a capital punishment, or not. this would be new to the law, and, in his opinion, far from an improvement of it.
 The Attorney-General  also objected to the amendment, and upon the same ground. Leaving it to the judge to determine whether an offence should or should not be held capital was contrary to all rule, and wholly anomalous. It would, b sides, have the effect of placing the judges in an embarrassing, a most painful, and oftentimes, perhaps, a most odious, situation. Every body, he thought, would perceive how very different the situation of the judge would become when it was known that the decision of life or death was left entirely to his discretion.
 Sir R. Inglis  rose to draw the attention of the House to the extraordinary changes in the law which this Bill proposed. It would materially injure the small proprietors of property, by whom a large proportion of the wills were made. He found, by returns made to that House, that in the year 1829 five-sevenths of the probates granted in London were for property under the value of 3,000 l.; l 1665
 The Attorney-General  entirely despaired of convincing the hon. Baronet of the propriety of this measure if he were not already convinced by all that had Deen written in its favour. It had received the approbation of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, had been approved of by the real property Commissioners, had twice passed that House, had been twice carefully considered by a Select Committee, and in the House of Lords had obtained the support of the Lord Chancellor and Lords Brougham, Lyndhurst and Abinger. The heads of the courts of common law, of equity, and of the ecclesiastical courts also concurred in its propriety, whilst the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop of London, and other right rev. Prelates united in strenuously recommending this alteration of the law. Sir N. Tindal and Lord Tenterden also approved of it; and if the hon. Baronet still thought, in spite of authorities such as these, that the Bill was wrong, he was right, manfully to come forward and state his objections. He had, however, omitted one material evil which this Bill remedied: there were parts of the country where no will was sufficient directly to pass real estate, and he well recollected when he had the honour to be one of the property law Commissioners, that this defect was pointed out to him, in an able paper he received from the hon. Baronet the Member for Cumberland. Now this Bill would remedy this, and would render uniform the method of making wills relating to real and personal estate. Nothing could be more absurd than the present law upon this subject; for whilst a single perch of freehold land could not be disposed of by will, unless such will were executed in the presence of three witnesses, yet no witnesses were required to a will relating to a copyhold estate of the greatest value, and it might pass by a mere memorandum put into one's pocket book, without signature or attestation. Again, with respect to funded property, two witnesses were generally required to a will; but none if it related to other kinds of personality. The present Bill would put an end to ligitation, and
 1666
 Mr. Tooke  did not intend to oppose the Bill going into Committee, as there was much in it that he approved of, but to many of its clauses he could not give his consent without great alteration.
 Dr. Lushington  had no doubt that the passing of this Bill would render the wills of the humbler classes of society more valid than they were under the present state of the law, for it was notorious that they were in the habit of having attestating clauses without the signature of witnesses. He had had at least fifty cases of this kind come before him during the present year. He denied that this Bill would increase the expense of making wills, and at any rate it would greatly diminish litigation. The only objection that he had heard against this Bill was the difficulty of procuring two witnesses to a will—an evil which he did not believe could exist.
 Sir R. Inglis  proposed the addition of a proviso to the effect that any will of personal estate written wholly by the testator, and dated either in the introduction or at the close, or in any part thereof, and signed by him at the foot thereof, shall be valid to all intents and purposes, without need of any acknowledgment before witnesses, or any attestation thereof.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the motion on several grounds. He thought it impossible to introduce a new excise regulation which was to operate through the whole country at a time when Parliament was about to expire. There was no such pressing necessity for the measure, and it was one of so much importance that, in his opinion, it ought to be reserved for the meeting of Parliament when the House was full. He did not see that any great injury would result from a postponement of the question. He begged to ask why agriculture was to be deprived of the benefit which it would enjoy if the cultivation of Beet-root for the manufacture of Sugar were encouraged? Another suggestion he had to make was, that the duty of 24 s. 1670
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he had been asked if any facts had come to his knowledge that induced him to press the Bill this Session? To this question he must reply that such facts had come to his knowledge. An attempt had been made in Ireland and another in the neighbourhood of London to establish the many facture of Beet-root Sugar, and a considerable amount of capital had been invested in the undertaking. These parties might come forward and ask for compensation if a law were passed which put an end to their manufacture. Before, however, it was established he and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had stated, that if an attempt were made to manufacture Beet-root Sugar in this country, in consequence of the bounty afforded by the duty on foreign sugar, they should consider it their duty at once to bring in a Bill to impose a duty on the Beet-root Sugar. The parties who had engaged in the manufacture now said, though such a statement was made in Parliament, they unfortunately did not know anything about it. He thought it necessary for Parliament under these circumstances to interfere at the earliest possible moment, and pass a law which would put an end to any such pretensions. The hon. Member for Durham asked, why impose a duty of 24 s.
 Mr. Harvey  opposed the Bill, condemning the departure from the recommendation of the Commissioners. He objected, moreover, to this Bill, because it went, in the face of the recommendation of a Commission which sat for a long period, to create three situations with salaries attached to them, of 1,200 l.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  said, that this Bill was brought in in pursuance of the recommendation of a Commission, of which he (Mr. Goulburn) had the honour to be Chairman. The hon. and learned Member for Southwark, had not opposed the measure until the last occasion, when he made a speech precisely similar to that which he had first made. With reference to the appointments which had been made of relations by the judges, would the hon. Gentleman say they were not fully competent to the duties of the offices to which they were appointed, or were not fit and proper persons to be so recommended? He denied, that the salaries of l,200 l. 1673
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  thought the House was bound to abide by the recommendation of the Commission to limit the number of officers to twelve; and unless he heard something more satisfactory than had fallen from the learned Sergeant, he would vote for the amendment.
 Mr. Tooke  concurred in everything which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, because the creation of these three additional appointments, contrary to the recommendation of the Commission, was a most outrageous job. He would take this occasion of asking, how it happened that the recommendations of the Commission, in regard to the Crown-office, had not been acted upon and framed into a Bill? Had this been done, there would have been some consolation for the expense which this Commission would cost the country.
 The Attorney-General  complained of the course pursued by the hon. Member for Truro. He believed, that the judges of the land had acted upon the purest and most conscientious feeling. The business in the taxation of costs in the courts, in consequence of recent regulations, had been much increased; and as the duties of their officers would, in a great degree, apply to this branch of business—though he had the highest respect for the recommendation of the Commission—the additional number of three was not too great. He protested against the attempt made, to impugn the motives of the judges in reference to these appointments.
 Lord John Russell  brought up her Majesty's Answer to the Address voted to her Majesty upon the demise of the late King, and upon her Majesty's accession to the Throne; which, as far as we could collect it, in consequence of the low tone in which his Lordship read it, was to the following effect:—
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  felt called on to say a few words on the subject before the House, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Kent. This was not a Government measure, and ought not to be regarded in any such light. It was a Bill brought in by the hon. Member for Worcester, over which the Government had no more control than any Member of that House. He had expressed his intention to support it, and the hon. Gentleman opposite had taken advantage of that circumstance. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Kent said, that they were bound to oppose the measure because the effect of it would be to get rid of the Corn laws by a side wind. Now, he would be no party to any measure having such an object in view. His opinion on the subject was well known. He would never consent to do away with the Corn-laws except by a direct vote, and therefore it was most unlikely that he would support any measure which would by indirect means accomplish such an object. It was on this principle that he had opposed the Bill on the same subject formerly introduced by the hon. Member for Worcester. He thought that measure would affect the interest of the corn growers of the country, and therefore he declined to give it his support. He, however, approved of the principle of the present Bill, and should support the motion for going into Committee on it, but with a view to propose certain alterations in its provisions for giving all the security which might be deemed necessary.
 Mr. Robinson  regretted the opposition that was given to this Bill. The noble Marquess had called it a Bill to facilitate the smuggling of foreign corn, but that was not the fact. His only object was to allow foreign corn to be ground under certain circumstances, and he thought it would be just as reasonable to impose restrictions on any other branch of trade as to continue the prohibition which was intended to be got rid of by this Bill. This was the only measure for the benefit of free trade which had been brought in during the present Session, and he must complain of the unfairness of the attempt now made on the part of Gentlemen connected with agriculture to strangle it under the unfounded pretence that it would lead to smuggling. He never had been an
 1678
 Mr. Benett  was surprised the Government had thought fit to carry on this measure at the present moment, when they had stopped several other most important Bills. He thought it would have been advisable to have stopped this, for it was a question of very serious importance to the agricultural interests and one which made a deep impression on the minds of farmers, which hon. Gentlemen would very soon find out to be the case when they went down to their constituents. He had no attachment for the Corn laws, but considered they were necessary, in consequence of the situation in which the country had been placed by the existence of a national debt. He opposed the Bill, not because he was an enemy to free trade, but because he thought other things would have to be done before a system of free trade could be approached in the manner proposed by this Bill.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  thought the Bill ought not to be proceeded with in the present state of the Session. He would agree to the second reading with a view of going into Committee to render the Bill perfect, in order to present it to the next Parliament, but not to pass it this Session.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  felt bound to give his most decided opposition to this Bill, especially at this period of the Session. It had been understood that no measure calculated to lead to a diversity of opinion would be proceeded with in the present Session, and he was surprised that a measure which he could not but regard as a step towards the repeal of the Corn laws should be thus persisted in.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  thought the House would do well to go into Committee. It was a measure upon which he was sure his agricultural friends had been much deceived; all frauds might be prevented, and a great boon conferred on the industrious classes and the shipping interests.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  opposed the motion. He thought it was unjust to send up such ill-considered measures to the other House at this period of Parliament.
 Mr. Shan  observed, that the House was somewhat taken by surprise in this case. Many hon. Members who took a lively interest in this question were not in the House; and the hon. and learned Attorney-General could surely not seriously suppose that the Bill would be passed into a law this Session.
 Lord Stanley  asked whether it was intended to extend the provisions of this Bill to Ireland?
 Lord Stanley  observed, that if that was the case, he hoped the Committee would consider for a moment how injurious this Bill might possibly be to the parties before an Irish Election Committee, inasmuch as the system of Irish registration stood upon a very different footing from that which existed in England. It was admitted that the Irish registration was so defective that, except the matter were brought before a Committee of the House of Commons, it was impossible to obtain any relief whatever against fictitious votes, there being no
 1704
 Colonel Thompson  said, the object of this Bill was to authorise Jews to follow the direction of the Mosaic Jaw, by marrying their brother's widows. Now, if we who were not Jews presumed to obey the Mosaic direction, we were persecuted in consequence; and, on the other hand, in the case of the Jewish sabbath we were persecuted for not obeying. The inference he wanted to draw was, that the Mosaic law was used against us as an engine of
 1708
 Sir George Grey  stated, that the subject of giving an elective council to the colony of New South Wales had occupied a great deal of the attention of Government. He could bear testimony to the value of this colony, and the great progress that it was making. The difficulty of drawing up a bill on the subject was one of no ordinary-nature, but the subject would not be lost sight of during the vacation; and he trusted that early next Session they would be able to submit to Parliament a measure which would not only satisfy the colonists, but which would be well adapted to their peculiar situation.
 Mr. Henry L. Bulwer  had had several petitions confided to his charge from the colonies of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land, all earnestly praying that a change in the constitution of those colonies should take place correspondent with the change that had taken place in their condition. He begged then strongly to corroborate what had been said by his hon. Friend the Member for Lancaster, as to the expectations which prevailed. He must add, that he regretted exceedingly that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies had not brought forward, at an earlier period this Session, the new measure he had announced at the close of last Session. It was at the end of last year that his hon. Friend obtained permission to keep the existing act in force for one year longer, but he obtained this permission only on the distinct pledge that at the meeting of Parliament another Bill should be proposed; and yet, though he had repeatedly jogged the recollection of his hon. Friend to force the subject upon him, weeks and months had passed away until that melancholy event which necessarily occasioned the greatest portion of
 1709
 Colonel Thompson  said, he was not a banker. He was the son of a banker, if there was any taint in that in the eyes of the hon. Member for Finsbury. But he would invite that hon. Member to consider, whether the cry that borrowers could not get money unless the lenders were made by force to lower their prices, was not of the same nature as the old-fashioned outcry against corn-dealers for not lowering their prices; and whether the contest after all, was not between having the respective articles at the price for which men would furnish them, and going without.
 Mr. Grote  wished to add his testimony to that which had been already given as to the beneficial effects which had arisen from the working of the clause in the Bank Charter Act with reference to the usury laws; and his strong conviction was, from the events of the last few months, that the present measure was essentially necessary, more especially in times of commercial difficulty. In the present state of the law a man holding a bill having five months to run, and having no other assets, was absolutely driven to an evasion of the law, because the law would not permit him to pay that rate of interest which such a bill would necessarily bear in the money market if discounted. There was an absurdity in the present state of the law; because a bill having six months to run
 1707
 Mr. Grote  moved that the House resolve itself into Committee on this Bill.
 Mr. Robinson  could assure the hon. Member for Finsbury, that he (Mr. Robinson) had never heard amongst his extensive connexions any one express a doubt as to the beneficial working of the clause in the Bank Charter, and for himself he was decidedly favourable, since the experiment they had had of that clause, to extending its operation. The hon. Member for Finsbury had said with a degree of simplicity which was rather surprising, that the country had gone on well under the old system. But surely it might be well said, that the country had gone on under other bad laws. It was said by the hon. Member, that this Bill was for the advantage of the bankers; but in this respect he was entirely wrong, for the persons who would benefit by it were the smaller traders.
 Mr. Hume  was very sorry to hear such opinions fall from his hon. Friend as those
 1706
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  presented a petition from the Deputy Lieutenants and three other magistrates of the county of Kerry, complaining of the conduct of Government in Ireland. They complained that a chief constable, named M'Donogh, had grossly insulted them on several occasions, that a memorial had been addressed to the Lord-lieutenant, and, after repeated applications, inquiry had been promised. After very considerable delay an investigation took place before the hon. Thomas Browne, Vice-Lieutenant of the county, and Mr. Shea Lalor, who had been a member of the Catholic Association, was sent by the Government to conduct it. All the charges brought by the magistrates against M'Donogh were established satisfactorily, and all the charges which M'Donogh alleged against them fell to the ground.
 Mr. R. Steuart  said, that the provisions of the Bill would not apply to the voting at elections in Ireland, but it was intended they should apply to all Irish election Committees.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the object of this Bill was one which deeply interested the commercial community; and the measure itself had been much pressed by the commercial interest on the Government. The clause inserted in the Bank Charter which legalised the discounting of bills not exceeding three months' date at a higher rate of interest than five per cent, (and to that extent repealing the usury laws) had been proved in the recent crisis to be extremely beneficial, and had completely established the soundness of the principle of the Bank of England Charter Act. It was well known that a vast proportion of the commercial transactions of this country was not represented by bills of three months date. Much of the foreign commerce of the country was transacted through the medium of bills running through the period of twelve months. By the operation of the present law, the holders of such bills could not get them discounted (except at the ordinary rate of five per cent.) until nine months had expired. The consequence was, that means were taken to evade the usury laws by drawing four bills at three months each, and getting them renewed from time to time. But this imposed a very great expense on the borrower, without giving any advantage to the lender. It had been suggested that the measure should only extend to the operation of the clause in the Bank Charter. to bills of six months, but if that were to be the limit, the measure would not embrace that class of commercial transactions which was the most important. Under these circumstances he hoped his noble Friend would not oppose the progress of the Bill, the loss of which would be a serious calamity to the trading interests of the country. He begged in conclusion, to state that if his hon. Friend
 1705
 Mr. Wakley  felt convinced by the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that this Bill ought not to be passed during the present Session, It was a subject of very great importance, the importance of which was not lessened by the fact stated by the right hon. Gentleman, that the subject had been pressed on his attention by the whole of the monied interest. The rich men, no doubt, were anxious that the Bill should be passed into a law. But what he wished to impress on the House was, the necessity of previously ascertaining what had been the effect of the experiment which they had already tried by the measure that had abolished the usury laws as far as regarded bills of exchange at three months' date. He was perfectly aware that the usury laws were unsound in principle. But at the same time he was bound to say that the whole structure of the monetary system in this country was artificial. He had been told that the alteration of the law, with regard to bills at three months had been injurious to the trading classes of the community. He could not, therefore, conceive why, at the end of the Session, with out investigation or discussion, the Government should press such a measure as this so hastily through the House. The trading classes had not petitioned for it. He had been informed that as much as ten, twelve, and fourteen percent. had been demanded for discounting bills which had only two months to run. He knew it had been said, that unless that interest were paid the parties would not have been able to obtain any money at all; but might it not be replied that those who knew they might legally receive such a high rate of interest would combine to prevent a lower rate being taken? He was aware that there were several bankers around him laughing at his statement because they knew that they were secure of a majority; but he would nevertheless declare that this was a Bill to promote the monied interest against the interest of the trading community. Had not this country, he would ask, prospered under the old law? At all events, had the trading classes called for its repeal? He trusted, therefore, that the House would not, in common decency, allow the measure to pass in the present period of the Sessin.
 Mr. Wakley  finding his maiden effort to become a Conservative altogether unsuccessful, would abandon the attempt to check the progress of this Bill; but he certainly should make it his business to go into the city to ascertain what were the feelings of borrowers of money upon the subject.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  objected at that period of the Session, and on the eve of a general election, to proceed with a Bill upon the merits of which there was so much diversity of opinion.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  said, that the impression of the House decidedly was, that it was not intended to go on with it in the present Session.
 The Attorney-General  observed, that his noble Friend the Secretary for the Home Department had in his (the Attorney-General's) own hearing declared, that this Bill would be proceeded with this Session, and he himself had yesterday given public notice that he would bring it on that day.
 The Attorney-General  observed, that it was not intended to grant compensation in all cases. It was intended only to apply in the case of the warden of the Queen's Bench prison, or others who were similarly placed.
 The Attorney-General  said, he could not boast of any understanding with the other House of Parliament; but he could declare that this Bill would go to the upper House in the fair expectation that it would pass this Session.
 Sir Robert Inglis  protested against hurrying this measure through its stages, un-
 1702 bonâ fide
 Mr. Williams Wynn  objected to the principle of compensation to gaolers; and, though he would not revert to what he had before stated fully, yet he must contend that if compensation were to be given in all these cases, it would be just as reasonable to contend, if the punishment of death in all cases should be abolished, that the last functionary of the law (the executioner,) in capital cases should be compensated for the loss which he might sustain.
 Lord Morpeth  thought he could shortly and simply meet the statements contained in the petition, by merely reading a letter which within the last few days had been addressed, by command of the Lord-lieutenant, to the hon. Thomas Browne, Vice-lieutenant of the county of Kerry. The noble Lord then read the letter. The Lord-lieutenant, upon mature consideration of the evidence, was of opinion that the ad-
 1701
 Viscount Sandon  was not himself competent to discuss the question involved in this Bill, but he understood that it involved a great alteration in the law of the land. If so, he thought it ought not to be brought forward in the absence of Gentlemen on his side of the House who were fully able to enter into the merits of the subject.
 Mr. Labouchere  referred to an amendment which had been made by the Lords in a money clause of one of the Post-office Bills which had been sent up to their Lordships' House, and he requested the Speaker to state, whether such an amendment was contrary to the privileges of that House,
 The Speaker  wished to state what he understood by the right hon. Gentleman's question. There was a clause in one of the Post-office Bills, containing these words—"and other legal grants," for which had been substituted the words—"and other legal rights," with the view of giving an exemption in the case of certain turnpike tolls. Now, the Bill being strictly a revenue Bill, the House should be very careful how it acted in reference to this amendment; as, in the first place, he did not know to what the exemption applied; or what, in the second place, was to be its extent. He, therefore, thought, it was an exemption which the House could not sanction.
 Mr. Richards  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had promised to give every information on the subject which the financial statement of a minister was supposed to embrace; but what was the information he had really furnished? Simply this—that the commerce and manufactures of the country were in a state of deep distress, that the revenue of the country had fallen off, and that he could not reduce the taxes. That was the amount of the information which the right hon. Gentleman had thought fit to come down and give to the House and the country. But the information which he wanted was this—what had occasioned the distress now prevailing throughout the country? Humble individual as he was, he yet would presume to give that explanation which the right hon. Gentleman had omitted to do. He charged the whole of the distress of this country upon the want of attention of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to his duty, or else to his gross ignorance of the nature of that duty. Perhaps this was the last occasion on which he should have the honour to address that House. However he should proceed in the discharge of his duty in spite of any party interruptions. He charged the Government with having falsified the balances of the country by tampering with the currency for their own selfish purposes, and merely for the sake of keeping themselves in office, reckless of the misery they inflicted on others. In his mind it was perfectly evident that the Chancellor of the Ex-
 1731
 Mr. Richards  admitted he had fallen into a mistake as to the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Wallace  said, the budget had been promised from time to time, and now it was brought forward there was nothing in it. The right hon. Gentleman in opening his budget, as he called it, had accused the merchants and commercial men of the kingdom of being neglectful of those suggestions which he threw out in the month of May last, for the purpose of putting them on their guard as to how far they ought to proceed with the speculations and enterprises in which they had been engaged. He believed that the whole of the distresses of the country were to be attributed to the powers of the Bank of England, and that it would be the duty of that House at the earliest possible period, to institute a specific inquiry into those powers, with a view to some effective reform. Something decisive must soon be done. The specie had gone out of the country, and now the Bank of England, after having sent it away on a speculation wished to get it back at the expense of the public. The right hon. Gentlemen who occupied the Ministerial seats could not retain them unless they would reduce taxation. But after all the promises they had made to do so they had done nothing. They had not even attempted to adopt the plan of retrenchment in the Post-office management, which Mr. Hill had so ably pointed out.
 Colonel Thompson  said, when so many hon. Members have their causes for the distresses of the country, I too may be permitted to have my nostrum. Allow the men who are declared to be starving to purchase food were they can gel it. Might it not move a grave man to smile, to see the Government of a great commercial country balancing and making inquest after a little gain in one place, and a little loss in another, and all the while the traders of that community were forbidden to bring from abroad the only
 1736
 The Attorney-General  said, that the Bill had been now a long time before the House, and had passed several times through Committee.
 Sir F. Pollock  agreed to the principle of the measure, but he objected to one clause, which enabled any creditor to make a trader a bankrupt if he did not give security within twenty-one days after being called on to do so for the payment of his debts. Such a change in the law could not, he contended, be effected without creating alarm and disgust amongst the smaller tradesmen.
 The Attorney-General  said, he had not inserted the clause in the Bill as it was originally proposed, but had been induced to introduce it by the representations of commercial men of all classes. Under the old law, if a trader were arrested for a debt only exceeding 20 l
 Mr. Richards  withdrew his first amendment, and moved that the House do adjourn,
 Mr. Richards  said, if the object of the Bill was to put an end to the credit given to improvident young men, it would fail in that object totally. At such a late hour of the night, however, he should not trouble the House with further observation. He moved that the Bill be recommitted, upon which the House divided:—Ayes 16; Noes 56: Majority 40.
 Lord Stanley  said, upon Easter Monday there were 23,985 persons who had visited the Museum, and upon Whit-Monday 30,000 and odd persons had visited it. He was happy to observe that no damage was done, notwithstanding the great attendance.
 Colonel Thompson  said, like the preceding speaker, he could not allow the vote to pass without noticing that it was not among the working classes, but the aristocratic classes, the Iconoclasts were found. He appealed to the public papers, and the records of the courts of law, to show that it was not the working classes whom it was dangerous to admit within the wind of a public monument. He could
 1738
 Mr. Richards  was sure the people of England would applaud the House should it sanction the payment of those claims. The people of England would consider that they had only discharged their duty in making good the losses sustained by a
 1741
 Mr. Bannerman  considered the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir F. Pollock) unanswerable in a legal point of view; but he trusted the House in this case would not confine itself to the legal merits of the question, but act upon principles of liberality and common sense. He hoped there would be no party feeling mixed up with the question for he was convinced that if the present Speaker were to suffer a similar loss, hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House would be the first to propose an indemnification for that loss. Lord Canterbury and the whole of those who had suffered were fully and justly entitled to compensation, and he hoped the House would not refuse its sanction to the payment of what had so strong a claim on the favourable attention of the House.
 Mr. Grote  thought, that should the present Speaker, neglect to insure his property in Carlton-terrace, there would be no good claim upon the House to pay any loss which he might sustain by fire. He did not think the House was called upon to pay the claim which had been brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Mr. Robinson  thought, that the announcement made by the right hon. Gentleman that night, would create great disappointment throughout the country. The surplus was much less than that of last year, and the state of things at present was much worse than at that period, nor was there any prospect of an improvement, because all the circumstances that led to the reduction of taxation in past years were now at an end. There was an increase of no less than 200,000 l l 1735
 Mr. G. F. Young  doubted whether the House would sympathise with the hon. Member for Finsbury in his clap-trap objections. He thought the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had exercised a sound discretion in delaying the budget. If he had brought it forward six weeks or two months ago, considering what was then the commercial situation of the country, he would probably greatly have aggravated the embarrassment existing in the commercial world.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the House ought to be on its guard; and he did not believe that any insurance office would have refused under the circumstances to make good the loss.
 Mr. J. Maxwell  concurred in the observations of the hon. Member for Knaresborough, and he was perfectly ready to back the hon. Member in the bet which he had proposed to the right hon. Gentleman opposite. In his judgment, the cause of the distress now prevailing was, that the country was obliged to find gold at 3 l s d 1732
 Mr. Hume  was not one of those who was anxious for an immediate reduction of the debt of the country, which he did not think so advantageous as applying the surplus revenue to the reduction of those taxes which pressed upon industry. He had always wished for an empty Exchequer as the means of calling the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the necessity of adopting a more rigid system of economy. Well, there was an empty Exchequer, but he was afraid that it would not produce the effect he desired upon the right hon. Gentleman. If the Government had been inclined to reduce two or three regiments of infantry and of cavalry, they might have had a corresponding reduction in the estimates; but this course had not been adopted. On the contrary, the military and naval force remained the same as in past years; and, consequently, the extravagant estimates of past years were continued. He did not accuse the Chancellor of the Exchequer of being wilfully extravagant; but it really seemed to be a kind of second nature with men in office to adhere to the established system of expenditure, be the amount ever so excessive. The heads of departments felt a reluctance to make any reduction; and whenever any independent Member complained of the expense of their establishments, they, on all occasions, became the apologists of the existing system. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been more watchful over the estimates, and had paid more attention to the reduction of unnecessary charges, he would now have been in possession of a considerable surplus. The time was gone by for making any reductions during the present session. The result was, that they were now about to return to their constituents without having done anything during the present session to relieve the people from the pressure of taxation. If her Majesty's Ministers really expected the confidence and support of the people, they must be prepared in the next Parliament to proceed on different grounds, and produce different results. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed a hope that the worst of the crisis which had befallen the country had passed by. The real causes of the crisis, in his opinion, were to be found in the conduct, in the first place, of the right hon. Gentleman himself in contracting the 15,000,000 l 1730
 Mr. Potter  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Knaresborough, had asserted that there was a diminished quantity of food in the country; and that if the harvest should turn out a late one a great scarcity would ensue. He was astonished that, entertaining such opinions, he did not make an effort to obtain a quantity of food by letting out the corn now in bond. Late as it was, the House ought to endeavour to effect this most desirable object. He considered the bread-tax the most oppressive of all taxes. It oppressed the country by keeping bread at an extravagant price, and checking our foreign trade: but the landed interest would not make the slightest concession. The effort which was made to grind bonded corn they refused to allow, and that was a measure which would have released capital to some extent, and given employment to our shipping. The landed interest had a complete monopoly of the home market, not only in grain but in animal food. Salted meat was liable to a duty of 12 s
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the charge which the hon. Gentleman represented him to have made against the commercial interest of the country, that it had not profited by the advice he gave in April last, existed only in the hon. Gentleman's imagination.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  in explanation, stated, that the estimates of the present year had been increased by some items of a peculiar character, and which were created by Parliament itself, or by the commercial necessity of the country. Of this kind were the charges incident to the expedition to ascertain the practicability of opening a steam communication with India; the making a provision for educating the emancipated slaves in the West Indies; the preparing of the plans of the intended new Houses of Parliament; the formation of a prison establishment in the Isle of Wight, and other charges of a peculiar nature.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to observe, that he left the Bank of England unchecked and uncontrolled in their proceedings as to Exchequer Bills; therefore, the hon. Gentleman was wrong in his statement, that it was in his power to control that body. He had never lowered the interest of Exchequer Bills, and was not aware of the circumstances on which the hon. Member grounded his charge; on that account, therefore, he might be open to the accusation made against him by the hon. Gentleman of gross ignorance of his duty or negligence. With reference to the wager offered by the hon. Gentleman, he had no doubt as to winning it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, if it were not for the state of the Session, I should have felt myself bound, even at the hazard of incurring reproach, to give to the House, in the greatest detail in my power, all the information which I could communicate respecting the public finances, and I should prefer exposing myself to reproof for having said too much to the more serious charge of having wilfully concealed or kept back anything; but, under the existing circumstances, knowing that it is impossible to arrest the attention of the House upon any subject whatever, and knowing further, that the statement which
 1715 1716 London Gazette London Gazette 1717 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1718 l l l l l l l l maximum minimum l maximum l 1719 1720 s d. s d l l 1721 1722 l l l l l l l l 1723 l l l l l l l l l l 1724 
 
 MALT. 
 Bushels. Bushels. 
 1834 40,517,000 1836 45,509,000 
 1835 40,662,000 1837 42,642,000 
 Decrease from 1836 to 1837 2,867,000 
 Average of 1834,1835, 1836 42,229,000 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1725 1726 bonâ fide 1727 l l 1728 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said: I will state to my hon. Friend the amount of the funded and unfunded debt paid off, not only in the last year, but in every year since I have been in office. The right hon. Gentleman read the following table:—
 
 
 AMOUNT OF FUNDED AND UNFUNDED DEBT PAID OFF BY THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE REDUCTION OF THE NATIONAL DEBT IN EACH OF THE FOLLOWING YEARS. 
 Funded Debt. Unfunded Debt. 
 1831 £963,110 £1,705,900 
 1832 5,695 — 
 1833 792,579 230,954 
 1834 1,775,378 995 
 1835 519,627 750,250 
 1836 566,143 1,018,000 
 Total £4,622,532 3,706,099 
 4,622,532 
 £8,328,631
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not wish to argue the matter in an adverse manner with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, and only wished to explain the principle upon which the Government had acted. The claim had previously been made, and the Treasury had pronounced upon it; but the Government had felt, that they could not have justified themselves to the public had they paid the amount of loss sustained. The Treasury had not, however, heard of the claim of the late Speaker till a considerable time after the fire, and he had never heard of the claims of any other persons till they were brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He, however, admitted, that the same rule which was applied in the one case ought to be applied to the other; and if compensation was granted to the Speaker, the loss which had been sustained by others should also be made good. When the claim of the Speaker had been brought forward, the Government did not know of any precedent which would have justified them in compensating the loss; for the case of the fire in St. James's was not in point, as there the losses sustained were paid out of the privy purse, and not by the Woods and Forests. But although the Government had felt that they would not be justified in paying the claim which was made, the House might deal with the matter differently, and sanction the payment of the loss by a vote of that Committee. With respect to this case the Government had learned that the late Speaker had, up to a late period previously to the fire, insured his furniture, and that in fact his property in the house, which had been consumed, had up to the time when he first determined to resign the Chair been com-completely covered. When that determination was formed he had discontinued his insurances, but he had afterwards from the representations which had been made to him of the importance to the public service of his continuing to fill the chair, been induced to change his resolution, and to continue Chairman of that House. Against his own wishes he had consented to resume his duties as Speaker of that House, in deference to the wishes of those
 1740
 Mr. Wakley  objected to the budget being delayed till so late a period of the Session. When the right hon. Gentleman was asked what reduction of taxation he intended to propose, he replied, "Stop till I bring in the budget." Thus they were wheedled on, and now, when they were near the last day of the Session, they found that there was to be no reduction of taxation at all. The only way of preventing the recurrence of such a mode of transacting the public business was to make the financial year terminate, as was proposed by the hon. Gentleman, in January, instead of in April, as at present. There could be no reduction of taxation while they voted such
 1737 l "Hear, hear," from the Opposition Members l l
 Mr. Gillon  joined in the regret expressed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Middlesex, that the surplus should be so small. But, notwithstanding the small-ness of the surplus, he thought the House might as well have entered into the experiment of a reduction in the Soap-tax with perfect safety. The right hon. Gentleman might have acted on the Report of the Commissioners, and proposed a reduction of one-third of the present duty on soap, with regard to which all the reasons to which the right hon. Gentleman had adverted as having induced him to reduce the duties on glass equally applied. By the reduction of the duty on soap, he felt convinced the revenue would be increased instead of diminished, for at present in 66 towns in England and Scotland which in the year 1820 had licensed soap-makers, there was not a single licensed manufactory of soap, and within that period the amount of revenue derived from the commodity had fallen 4½ per cent. It was too bad, after twenty-two years of profound peace, that 6,500,000 l 1733
 Sir F. Pollock  wished to call the attention of the House to the losses sustained by the late Speaker and the officers of the House from the fire in 1834. The amount of the losses they had suffered altogether did not exceed 6,000 l l 1739
 Mr. Clay  said, the financial statement of the right hon. Gentleman certainly was not so cheering as others which the House had of late years been accustomed to hear, but under existing circumstances, it was as favourable as could be expected. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that the present depression of the commercial interest would soon cease. The resources of the country were not reduced; already there were symptoms of a revival of the national industry, and he trusted they would soon see that vast portion of the population of the country which depended on trade and manufacture in full employment, and consequently in a state of comfort. He did not think, that they should at present meddle with the management of the Bank of England: when the proper time came to investigate the affairs of that establishment, he should be ready to second the hon. Member for Middlesex in attempting to bring about an investigation. He thought the power of making paper money ought not to be intrusted to any man, or anybody of men, irrespective of the control of the Government. He had hoped, that the Committee on Joint-stock Banks would have been able, before the close of the present Session, to present some recommendations to the Government on the subject; but no doubt his right hon. Friend had sufficient reasons for not urging the Committee to make their Report this Session, and he thought himself that, in reference to such a question, it was much more important to legislate well than rapidly. He would, however, call on the Government, during
 1734
 Mr. Hutt  thought, that notwithstanding the small surplus, which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised, the right hon. Gentleman might well have effected a reduction in the rate of interest in Exchequer Bills from 3 l s l s d
 Dr. Lefroy  objected to proceeding with a measure of this nature on a day when it was understood no Bill likely to be contested was to be brought forward. The Bill was one of a grave and serious nature requiring mature consideration, and likely to lead to a protracted discussion. The House had understood from the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that no measure of importance was to be introduced at this late period of the Session; and he hoped, therefore, the Government would feel this measure to be a violation of the message which the noble Lord had brought down from her Majesty to the House.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, the principle of the Bill was of so simple a character that he did not think there would be any objection to it. It was simply to remedy an obvious error in the Reform Act as it related to Ireland. By that Act it was directed that the different constituencies in Ireland should be so divided that not more than 600 electors should poll at one polling-booth. But the Act also provided that there should be no division of the electors in any constituency whose names began with the same letter. The consequence of this last provision was, that in some cases the number of electors polling at one booth was considerably below 600, while in other cases many voters were prevented from voting at all, as the names beginning with one letter were, in some instances, too numerous for the time for polling allowed by the act, which had been limited so as to accord with the first direction regarding the number to poll at one booth. In many constituencies in Ireland the names beginning with the letter M, for instance exceeded 600, and
 1744
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  thought that it was improper to proceed with such a measure on a day when the House met simply for the dispatch of formal business. The principle of the Bill, was contained in the third clause, to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had not alluded, and by that clause a most important alteration was made regarding the votes of freemen. Why had the Bill been postponed to so late a period of the session, and why should it be hurried through the House in the manner proposed?
 Viscount Howick  agreed, to a considerable extent, with what had been said about not bringing forward any measure on a Saturday likely to give rise to discussion, but he thought the necessity for some measure of this kind to remedy the error in the Reform Act was so obvious, that on the eve of a general election he could not see how any one could oppose it.
 Mr. Shaw  thought the Bill was an attempt on the eve of a general election to legislate in favour of one particular interest. In regard to the first clause of the Bill, he thought it highly improper immediately before an election to change the provisions of the Reform Act as such a course was likely to lead to confusion, from the difference betwixt the old and the new system of proceeding. In regard to the third clause, he admitted that the votes alluded to by the noble Lord (Howick) had been decided against by a Committee of that House, but the judges had not given an unanimous opinion in favour of that decision, one of the most able holding an opinion different from the rest. If, however, the principle of the clause was really-good, it ought to be extended to the whole of Ireland, and should not be confined to Cork. There were no particular circumstances in the case of Cork which demanded a special measure, and whatever legislative measures affecting the right of voting was applied to that city ought to be extended to every other borough in Ireland. In his opinion this was the most monstrous attempt ever made by Parliament to interfere with a general
 1745
 Sir George Grey  trusted the country would be made acquainted with the nature of the objections urged against this Bill. The object of the Bill was to give due facility for the exercise of the elective franchise, and hon. Gentlemen opposite were not willing to grant the electors that facility on the eve of an election, from feeling that it would be injurious to their own party. This Bill was applicable to every other part of Ireland as well as Cork.
 Colonel Perceval  considered the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to be admirably calculated to tell at the election for Devonport, but not in that House. He would oppose the Bill as exceedingly partial.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  thought, if the principle of the Bill were right as regarded Cork, it ought to be applied to every other place. If the measure had been enlarged, so as to embrace every case of a similar kind, and brought forward at a proper time, he would not have objected to the Bill. But the present was a partial measure, and involved a principle of the greatest importance, requiring the fullest discussion; and, its introduction was a violation of the understanding that no important measure involving a contested principle should be brought forward during the remainder of the Session.
 Mr. Callaghan  thought he could put an end to the debate by stating, that this Bill was not to affect the next elections at all.
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that if the House should divide, he should vote for going into Committee; because, having voted for the Reform Bill, he felt bound to vote for any measure which was calculated, and he believed this was, to give effect to that Bill. He hoped, however, that hon. Members opposite would not refuse to support any reasonable amendments proposed on his side of the House.
 Mr. Estcourt , in reply to the observations of the noble Lord, read that part of her Majesty's message which stated, that "it was inexpedient to recommend to the House of Commons any new measures for
 1746
 Sir R. Ferguson  objected to the Bill, as the machinery it created was entirely new, and likely to prove expensive. One of the clauses was particularly objectionable. In that clause it was proposed to charge 5 s l
 Mr. O'Connell  considered the present mode of inspecting the accounts of the county treasurers extremely unsatisfactory. There was one case in which a treasurer had died with a large sum belonging to one of the Irish counties in his possession, and left no proof that that money was due; and it was but too probable that larger losses would be sustained, should the present Bill not pass, as the amount of securities was in many instances not sufficient to cover the sums which the treasurers often had in their possession. They were, however, discussing the principle of the Bill, which had been agreed to, and as the House was in Committee, they ought to proceed with the details. He entreated the Government to press the Bill as one highly essential to the protection of the public interests in Ireland.
 Mr. Wallace  objected to the vote, and said, that he had inquired into the nature of their courts, and into the conduct as well as the duties of the judges, but without receiving satisfactory information. He could, however, state, that there were three judges not only useless, but injurious to the country, and their services ought to be dispensed with. They never attended the court. No witnesses were examined, no counsel pleaded. It was gross absurdity and injustice to continue the system, and he would move, as an amendment, "that 24,000 l l
 Sir George Strickland  thought the general opinion out of doors was unfavourable to Mr. Barry's plan. He strongly objected to the style of architecture which had been adopted, and concurred with the hon. Member for Middlesex, in thinking that the vote should be postponed till next Session.
 Lord Stanley  said, that Government were highly censurable in delaying to bring in a Bill immediatly after the resolutions had passed. Such a step would have been most valuable as an evidence of their sincerity to that portion of the community of Lower Canada which they had by the resolutions declared it to be their intention to protect, and for the suppression of those indications of discontent and partial disturbance which now appeared. Admitting that Government had no other course to take at present than that which they had adopted, he must regret they had not at an earlier period manifested their determination to act up to the resolutions. If this vote were a fine upon the people of England, as the hon. Member for Middlesex had termed it, no power on earth would induce him to consent to it, but he consented to it because it held out the most solemn pledge which, under present circumstances, Government could give to the people of England and of Canada, that they would act up to those resolutions. They had been pledged over and over again in that House, and now they gave security to keep their pledges in the sum of 140,000 l
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  thought, that the Ministers must be much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for replying to the questions which had been addressed to them. The present Bill, if not brought forward with the intention, had the effect of preventing those who were willing to do a service to the class of freemen from carrying their views into effect. He maintained that the Bill was an essential alteration of the Reform Act, and he only did his duty in opposing this first Ministerial attempt to violate that measure.
 Mr. Sergeant Goulburn  said, he should lake the sense of the House on the question. It was not fair to press this Bill; it was contrary to the message from the Crown, and for election purposes only. He moved, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months.
 Captain Berkeley  bore his testimony to the professional merits of Sir William Symonds, and added that, from his experience of the labours of that Gentleman, he could state, that the navy were deeply indebted to him for his public services.
 Captain Dundas  said, he had no wish to depreciate the merits of Captain Symonds, but he must observe, that there were many other individuals whose talents in the same capacity well deserved the attention of the Admiralty.
 Lord D. Stuart  hoped, that in the next Session the Government would introduce a general measure on the subject, and he might mention that he had in the Vote-office a petition signed by upwards of 4,000 persons praying for protection to the dog.
 Lord D. Stuart  would take that opportunity of saying, that he thought some measure should be adopted for the protection of that most useful animal, the dog. It was revolting to see the enormous weights they were made to draw, and, in his opinion, the names of the owners ought, as in other cases, to be painted on the carts, in order that there might be no difficulty in ascertaining the owners of any dog who might be cruelly treated. He did not know whether it was possible to introduce a clause for the protection of these animals into the present Bill, but if it could be conveniently done, he trusted the noble Lord (Morpeth) would not object to the insertion of such a clause.
 Lord J. Russell  admitted, that there was no absolute necessity for pressing the Bill at present, yet it was a measure of considerable consequence; and as it was not likely to lead to any lengthened discussion, and would not prolong the Session, he trusted the House would allow the Bill to pass.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the House had, in conformity with the message from her Majesty, agreed not to proceed with any measure likely to give rise to much
 1766
 Lord John Russell  might deny entirely the justice of the charge which the noble Lord opposite had brought against the Government. He did not think it would
 1767
 Mr. Hawes  said, that on the occasion when hon. Gentlemen opposite assumed that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department had given the pledge of which they had spoken, it so happened that the right hon. Member for Cumberland adverted to the Bills under consideration, and the noble Lord expressly excepted the present Bill from those measures that he proposed to defer. What, then, became of the charge that the pressing forward the present Bill was a violation of the noble Lord's pledge? The real objection which hon. Gentlemen opposite felt to the measure was, that it was a popular one.
 Mr. C. Wood  thought it was incumbent on the hon. Member to show some better reason than a mere assertion for the production of such voluminous and, in some instances, expensive returns. The hon. Member defended the conduct of the Admiralty in the course they had pursued, and supported Sir William Symonds, as having contributed most essentially to the improvement of the British navy. If any blame attached at all, it was to be attributed to the Admiralty, and not to the Surveyor of the Navy, than whom a more able or better public servant could not be found. The hon. Member for Tynemouth had been rash in some of the assertions he had made; for, speaking upon official information, he could state, that so far from the absence of any opportunity of rivalry in the building of ships for the British naval service, Sir W. Symonds had only built one ship of the line and one frigate, and of small vessels only nine out of eighteen had been built by other individuals. On the whole, he submitted, that the hon. Member for Tynemouth had laid no sufficient grounds to be furnished with these returns, which would be both voluminous and expensive.
 Mr. Lucas  allowed that some alterations in the system of inspecting the accounts of the treasurers of counties in Inland was necessary. He did not however, deem
 1763
 Mr. Robinson  complained that the resolution affirming the principle of discharging all arrears of salaries from the Canadian exchequer as well as the other resolutions agreed to by the House with respect to the colony, had not been followed up by a legislative enactment, and that the people of England should now be called on to vote so large a sum. The amount of the vote might have been applied, but for the remissness of Government, reduce nearly the whole of the duty on marine insurances, or to give relief to other important interests which required it.
 Mr. G. F. Young  said, that notwithstanding the lateness of the hour and the opposition he was likely to meet with, he felt it his duty to persist in calling for the returns of which he had given notice. In the first place, he complained of the present system on which our ships of war
 1771 primâ facie 1772
 Mr. Hume  objected to the vote, which was nothing but a fine imposed on the people of England for the bad government of the colonists.
 Mr. Hume  advised the noble Lord not to take counsel from an enemy. It was vain to talk of giving effect to the resolutions. A bill for such a purpose would be mere waste paper, unless Government were prepared to send an army to Canada to compel its people to obedience.
 Mr. Hume  objected to vote any money under this head until more accurate estimates, sanctioned by a Committee of the House, had been submitted to Parliament. He should move that the vote be postponed till next Session.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, the Bill would not deprive the grand jurors of any power which they at present possessed, and he could see no good reason for postponing it. The treasurers in Ireland had, in some instances, been the cause of great loss to the country. He did not blame the grand juries, but they had not attended with sufficient vigilance to the accounts of the treasurers, and in his opinion those accounts could not be properly and satisfactorily inspected, until placed under the control of a public officer responsible to Parliament, and it was the object of this Bill to effect that desirable end.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 1764
 Mr. W. Gladstone  said, that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, had given as distinct a pledge as it was possible for a man to give, that all questions likely to lead to any great difference of opinion should be deferred; it therefore did appear to him that the pressing forward of the present Bill was in direct violation of that pledge.
 Sir C. Adam  concurred with the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester (Captain Berkeley) in the opinion that the ships constructed by Sir W. Symonds were at once an ornament and an improvement in the British navy. He knew no ships at all equal to those which Sir W. Symonds had produced.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the attempt to proceed with this Bill was a violation of the pledge given by the Ministers, that no measure of importance should be proceeded with except such as were essential to the furtherance of the public service. The Bill had been introduced so long ago as the 12th of May, at two o'clock in the morning, when there were only forty-one Members in the House, and from that time until Thursday last, it had been allowed to lie undisturbed on the table. Its purpose was to alter the constituency,
 1768
 Sir Robert Inglis  reminded the Committee that the present question was not at all with respect to the merits of Mr. Barry's plan. That had already been decided. After being engaged two years and nine months in preliminaries, he could not conceive a greater waste of time than would be occasioned by another reference of this matter to a Committee up stairs.
 Viscount Morpeth  would have been glad
 1762
 Mr. Warburton  did not think it proper that any such grant should be proposed at this late period of the Session, when no Members could be got to attend the Committee.
 Lord D. Stuart  did not know whether the session was not too far advanced to adopt any effectual measure for the relief of the distress which prevailed, but he would never be present in that House when the case of the handloom weavers was brought forward without doing all in his power in support of their claims. Feeling it to be the duty of the Government to adopt some measures for the relief of the suffering operatives, and feeling that those persons would have a just right to complain should the House adopt no measure for removing the pressure of distress from the working classes, he would with much pleasure second the motion of his hon. Friend for a commission of inquiry.
 Mr. Hindley  lamented the present deplorable condition of that laborious and deserving class of men, the hand-loom weavers. It was owing no doubt, in some degree to the extensive introduction of machinery, but with that the House could not interfere. The emigration of Irish labourers had also tended greatly to aggravate the evils of their condition. The next cause to which he attributed their distress was the high price of corn, with respect to which the most substantial relief could be afforded, on every principle of justice, by a repeal of the Corn-laws. He hoped a Commission would be granted; it could do no harm, it might do good, if it tended only to show that a feeling of sympathy towards that suffering class was entertained in that House.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  did not know whether the object of the hon. Gentleman,
 1795
 Dr. Bowring  would venture to say, that any interference by legislative enactment between the weavers and their masters would be most pernicious, and by it they would, in the long run, be sufferers. He could not see the object the hon. Member
 1794
 Mr. Fielden  was understood to say, that if her Majesty's Ministers could not find any means of relieving the distresses of industrious people, they were unfit for their post, and it was high time some other mode of Government should be adopted. If large portions of the people were allowed to starve in a land of wealth and plenty, it was quite clear that the true purposes of Government were not answered. It was their duty not only to ascertain the cause of the distress, but having ascertained that such distress existed, to take measures for
 1797 d d d
 Mr. J. Maxwell  rose, to perform what he felt to be a duty to the poorer classes of his countrymen, who were not directly represented in that House. He did not doubt that the Government were wiling to listen to his representations, and to adopt some measure for mitigating the distress which prevailed, but they were so occupied with changes as to forget to perform an act of justice and mercy to these suffering men. Petitions had been presented to the House from all classes of the community, and a Committee of that House had recommended the same course as those petitions pointed out for alleviating the sufferings of their operative countrymen,—namely, the introduction of a measure for the regulation of the rate of wages. Those distressed individuals were themselves convinced that such a measure alone could remove the pressure of want under which they at present suffered, and numerous petitions had been presented in its favour. But their representations had been coldly treated, and the House had refused to listen to their solicitations. Now those individuals might be wrong, but in such a case he considered the House bound in the most solemn manner, when large bodies came forward and asked for the adoption of a measure which they believed would mitigate their sufferings, to listen to their solicitations and to grant their prayer. Could the House doubt that those indivi-
 1791 1792 s s 1793
 Mr. Brotherton  coming from a manufacturing district, hoped he might say a few words on this question. He commiserated in common with every member of this House the deplorable condition of the handloom weavers. He was well aware of the sufferings and distresses under which they laboured, and should be most happy if anything could be done to relieve them. At the same time he had considerable doubts as to the propriety of regulating the rate of wages by a board to be constituted as had on a former occasion been suggested for that purpose. He thought, however, much benefit would accrue to the suffering classes of the community by the regular publication of the rates of wages in different parts of the country in the same way as the prices of corn were published. So far he was willing to go, but he doubted whether any good effects would arise from the establishment of such a board as that to which he had alluded.
 Mr. Wakley  said, the motion was for a Commission to inquire into the state and condition of that suffering class of men, with a view to devise a remedy for their distress. No proposition could be more simple and plain. It was admitted on all hands that they were suffering the greatest privations, and all they asked was, not legislation, but an inquiry; and could it be possible that the House could refuse it? He thought that they could never benefit the working classes by regulating the price of wages; but he trusted the House would agree to the motion without a division, by which they would show to the working classes that even if they had not the power of alleviating their distresses, they were anxious to do so.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that the distress which at present existed was, perhaps, such as at no former period had been presented to the attention of the House. Committees had sat in the years 1833, 1834, and 1835, and it had been proved that the hand-loom weaver had to exist upon 2½ d
 Sir R. Bateson , had always conscientiously supported the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Lanark, and as he was almost the only Irish Member present, be would take the liberty of calling the at-
 1796 s s s d
 Mr. Clay  said, that he would not yield to any man in or out of the House in strong desire and anxiety to promote the best interests of the labouring classes of this country, but he was decidedly of opinion that the greatest injury which could be inflicted upon those classes would be by the attempt to regulate by legislative interference the rate of wages. Under such circumstances he could not concur in the motion of the hon. Member for Lanark.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he felt bound to move, as an amendment, that the debate be further adjourned to that day month. It was impossible, that hon. Members at this period of the Session, and on the eve of a general election, could attend properly upon the Committee, whose inquiries would be most extensive. Hon. Members were now either occupied in their Own elections, or engaged in assisting the
 1802
 Mr. Shaw  supported the motion for the appointment of the Committee. The period of the Session ought not to be considered, for he was sure, as the right hon. Gentleman opposite had stated on a former occasion, that the inquiry would not take more than a day. He thought, that the right hon. Gentleman was in some sort pledged to the course he had taken, and it would be most unreasonable not to follow it up.
 Mr. Hume  put it to the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), whether the proceeding to this inquiry (even admitting it to be necessary) at this period of the Session, was not at variance with the course he had prescribed ten or twelve days ago, when the noble Lord stated that he would not go on with anything that the public service did not require. He was of opinion, that the country ought not to be called upon to compensate any individual for a loss which he himself might have covered by an insurance; and that principle had been recognised in the Dublin Custom-house Bill, and in the refusal of Government to assist the sufferers from the fire at Leith, with respect to whom the hon. Member for Greenock had a motion on the books; and these very claims had already been before the Treasury, and refused by the Secretary to that department. The matter had been allowed to lie dormant for two years and a-half, and it might well stand over for three months longer.
 The Chancellor of Exchequer  had never heard any statement with more surprise than that made by the hon. Member for Middlesex. The hon. Member was entirely in error, for it was not his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury who had rejected the claim, but he himself. The inquiry could not occupy more than a few hours, as the facts would be found to lie in a very narrow compass. The only question with regard to the insurance was whether it would have been legally payable. He had his own opinion upon that point, but he would not express it on the
 1803
 Sir Francis Pollock  had heard with surprise the objections started by the hon. Member for Middlesex to the appointment of this Committee, because the hon. Member had formerly recommended the very course now proposed by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He rested the claim of the late Speaker on the fact, that the fire originated, not in any negligence of his own or of his servants, but on the negligence of the servants of the public, and at a distance from his residence. As to the question of insurance, he contended that the Speaker was not bound to insure against any such risk. If a merchant had insured his vessel against fire, and that vessel had been run down by some other, he might justly go to the party who had done him the injury and demand compensation of him, independent of any insurance he might have effected with the underwriter. He considered that there was a moral obligation on the House to meet this claim, and he should be ashamed if it were delayed for another Session.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, if this Committee should report in favour of the claim, a vote of money would be granted this Session?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought not. It would be an unusual course to adopt at this period of the Session, all the supplies having been voted. Whether it might be made the subject of one of the sessional addresses, he would not take upon himself to say without consulting higher authority.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  would put another question on the answer of the right hon. Gentleman. If the money could not or would not be voted this Session, what possible advantage could arise from the appointment of this Committee, or what inconvenience could result from the postponement of the question to the next Session? The appointment of the Committee after the answer of the right hon. Gentleman would tend only to excite unpleasant suspicions. The question for consideration was the amount of loss sustained, and that could not be correctly
 1804
 Lord John Russell  thought this was a case for a Committee rather than for a general discussion in the House. As a great many hon. Members on both sides of the House had spoken in favour of the claim, he thought it but right that an examination into the facts should take place. That being the case, few would deny, he presumed that it would be better that such inquiry should be made now than in a future Session. The subject would occupy but little time, there were only a few leading points to be considered. The hon. Member for Kerry had asked whether the grant would be made this Session if the Committee were to Report in favour of the claim, and his right hon. Friend had answered in the negative; indeed, if it were practicable, it would hardly be fair to those hon. Members who had left London to press for the grant immediately, at the same time, it would be most ungracious to Lord Canterbury to shut the door of inquiry into the facts on which the claim was grounded.
 Mr. Aglionby  did not think this was the proper time for the appointment of such a Committee, and therefore, he should oppose the Motion. In his opinion the inquiry, instead of lasting only a few hours, would occupy many days. If the Committee were appointed, would it not be necessary to go into every fact connected with the case? For one, he should not be satisfied with a mere expression of opinion.
 Mr. Jervis  said, if the question was only whether the fire originated in the House of Commons or in the Speaker's House, they might as well grant the money at once, for there was nothing to inquire into. Though they might all be agreed as to the propriety of appointing a Committee, he thought it ought not to be appointed at the present time.
 Sir T. Fremantle  thought it was unreasonable in hon. Members so resist the
 1805
 Mr. T. H. Duncombe  said, his only objection to the appointment of a Committee was, that it was totally unnecessary. He, for one, was prepared to vote the money. The case had been fully made out, after a sufficient inquiry into all the facts of it, before the Privy Council. Why, then, delay any longer to do that which was only an act of right and justice to a meritorious servant of the public? He believed that any niggardly economy in making compensation for losses sustained by a calamity brought on by the servants of that House would be despised by the public at large.
 Mr. Wallace  said, he had given notice of a Motion to obtain compensation for some parties who had suffered extensively by a fire at Leith, in which a large quantity of sugars was destroyed. The duty had been paid on those sugars, and the drawback had been refused; would the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer refer that case to the Committee along with the claim of the late Speaker.
 Mr. W. Gladstone  said, that he rose to lay on the table a petition from freeholders and other residents of the Cape of Good Hope, praying that a Commission might be appointed to investigate upon the spot, charges which had been made in this country, seriously and grievously as they considered, affecting their character, relatively to their intercourse, for a long period of time, with the Aboriginal tribes. The language of the petition was strong, stronger than in ordinary cases he would wish to be the means of placing before the House, and only excusable under the peculiar circumstances of these colonists, smarting from the severe inflictions they had sustained by the Kafir War, which took place in the winter of 1834. The petition was aimed at the conduct of her Majesty's Government. He did not feel it necessary to identify himself with the allegations it contained, because he did not feel that he had in his possession all the data necessary to enable him to form a judgment upon the course which had been pursued. The hon. Member stated the substance of the petition. In conclusion, they prayed, not correctly in point of form, that the House would appoint a Commission; but he might say, that a Commission should be appointed, to examine, upon the spot, into the truth of the facts alleged concerning the past, and into the policy which it would be desirable to pursue for the future. He thought they had grounds for this prayer, as regarded the Government, but still more in consequence of Parliamentary proceedings, which had been taken, but which were not alluded to in the petition. A Committee had been appointed in that House, to consider our relations with the aboriginal tribes in and bordering on British settlements. That Committee had presented evidence equaling in bulk the labours of any of its predecessors, and a Report, he believed, of
 1800
 Sir G. Grey  said, the prayer of the petition had been first addressed to the Government, but the Government did not think there were sufficient grounds stated for issuing a Commission. A Committee of that House had already fully investigated the very allegations contained in the petition, and the Report of that Committee was before the House, as well as copies of the correspondence between the Colonial-office and the governor of the colony, respecting the despatch which
 1801
 Colonel Thompson  said, he happened to be a living governor of Sierra Leone, rather a rare species he believed on earth, and therefore could not well avoid confirming the opinion of the hon. Member who last sat down, that steam-boats at the mouths of the rivers would be the effectual instrument for putting down the slave trade on the coast of Africa. He had likewise no objection to the other instrument which had been recommended by the same hon. Member, the yard-arm, whenever arrangements could be made for administering it by due course of law; for he was convinced that on treating the slave-trade as piracy by European nations, depended the chance of ultimate suppression. It was seventeen years since he had had the honour of negotiating, under the orders of Sir William Keir Grant in the Persian Gulf, the first treaty or public act in which the slave-trade was written down by its proper name of piracy. This act took place in January, 1820, and had been public law in the countries concerned ever since. An act to the same effect was issued by America in the same year; but he had had the honour of comparing dates with Mr. Rush, the American minister, and Mr. Rush told him the American act took place in May; so that the British was actually the prior, though, from the difference in the modes of communication, the American act was known in England first. It might be acceptable to many that heard him to be made acquainted with these facts. But the use he wanted to make of them now was, to give additional stimulus to the Government to go on, and above all things not to expose themselves to the charge of stopping the small flies in their net, and letting the great ones through.
 Captain Dundas  moved that an Address be presented to her Majesty, that previous to the estimates of 1838-9 means should be taken to ascertain the number of effective and non-effective officers of her Majesty's navy, with a view of forming a retired list to benefit old and
 1832
 Mr. Charles Wood  would state that a steamer had been employed on the coast of Africa, but had not answered the expectations that had been formed; the fact was, that the difficulty arose, not from the want of cruisers on the coast of Africa, but from the want of power to seize vessels unless slaves were on board. Whatever had not been done with respect to the prevention of the carrying on of the slave trade, arose not from a want of prudence on the part of the Government, but from the want of treaties with other powers, which should give to the British cruisers a more extensive power of search and seizure.
 Mr. Charles Wood  said, with respect to the motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Devizes, he certainly did expect when that motion was made, the hon. and gallant Member would have stated some plan to the House. He thought, however, that the officers of the navy would rather forfeit their chance of promotion than undergo that examination which had been proposed. Such a plan would be any thing but agreeable and popular among the higher officers. He was ready to admit there were a great many officers on the list who were not equal to the active discharge of their duties, and if any scheme could be laid before the Admiralty, they would give it their favourable consideration. The country was suffering, and the navy was suffering, in consequence of having had a very large force during a long-continued war. The only means of supplying employment to such a large body of men as the naval officers on the half-pay list would be by a war, but as there was now peace, they must submit with patience like persons in other professions which were overstocked. On these grounds he thought it was perfectly unnecessary to bring forward such a motion. With respect to the statements of the hon. and gallant Member for Devonport, they were merely a repetition of the arguments brought forward by him previously. To these statements he had on former occasions given an answer, which it was unnecessary for him now to repeat. With respect to the allowances made to the widows of officers, he would only observe that it was always a matter of regret to the department to which he belonged to refuse claims of this kind; but it should be recollected that the Admiralty had only a limited fund to deal with, and was necessarily obliged to select those whose cases appeared the most pressing. It was a mistake to suppose that no
 1835 l. l. l.
 Mr. Goring  wished to know whether
 1830
 Dr. Bowring  said, that not one word had passed in the progress of the debate which any friend of the abolition of the slave trade could listen to without interest and gratification. It was indeed a subject of congratulation that one great question of humanity at least had reached that safe position in which all parties from all sides of the House were lending a willing aid for its future progress. It was a proud thing to England to witness this unanimity. He wished it to spread to another great nation. The conduct of the United States in this matter was distressing to her best friends. Would it be believed that under her republican auspices the slave trade was introduced into the province of Texas, from which it had been excluded by the Mexican authorities she had transplanted. Not only did she make no difficulty in admitting to her union new states in which slavery had long existed, but by her instrumentality slavery was forced into countries where it had been wholly extirpated. He hoped that the feelings of England would be communicated officially as far as it could be done with propriety, to the American government: at all events those feelings would not fail to reach the American people.
 Mr. Hume  wished to press upon Government the necessity of adopting the employment of steam-vessels on the coast of Africa, for the purpose of preventing the carrying on the slave trade. He thought if an inquiry was instituted on the subject of the slave trade now carried on in different parts, there would be found to be a
 1831
 Mr. Hume rose  for the purpose of bringing forward his motion respecting Upper Canada, when the House was counted out.
 Sir E. Codrington  seconded the motion, he would take that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the condition of the officers of the navy, as compared with that of the members of other departments of the public service. If a full admiral retired after forty or fifty years' service, he could not obtain more than 700 l. l. l. l. l. 1833 l. l. 1834
 Sir R. Inglis  said, he felt he should not perform his duty were he not to take that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the state of the slave trade in some countries with which we had entered into treaties. He alluded in the first place, and more particularly, to Brazil, and in regard to the state of the slave trade in that country, he had received information on authority so unexceptionable, that he thought he should not abuse the time of the House by laying a statement of the facts before it. On the 5th of July last year, the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, Stated in his place in that House, that he thought England would have just ground of complaint against Portugal for non-fulfilment of treaties, if there were no rational prospect of obtaining from that country ampler means for putting an end to the slave trade carried on under her flag, "because Great Britain had paid to Portugal a very large sum, on a distinct understanding, that the slave trade should be terminated in all parts of her dominions." It might be objected, that this had no reference to Brazil; but he held, that Portugal was bound, not only to abolish the slave trade in her own dominions, but to lend her aid to England in putting an end to the traffic in slaves everywhere. By the convention of 1815 it was declared unlawful for Portugal to continue the trade in slaves, except so far as regarded the supply of slaves to some portions of her transatlantic possessions, and by that convention a period was thereafter to be fixed at which the trade in slaves should altogether cease. But notwithstanding the agreements into which Portugal then entered, the slave trade was still carried on to a considerable extent under the Portuguese flag; and that, too, under such circumstances, that it was not attempted to be said, that the traffic was continued for the purpose of supplying the transatlantic possessions of Portugal with slaves. In the first instance, as a justification of himself for occupying, even for a short space of time, the attention of the House at this period of the Session, he (Sir R. Inglis) would read the particulars of sundry vessels which under the Portuguese flag arrived in ballast at Rio Janeiro in
 1824 Pechell: 1825 1826 l. viva voce 1827
 Viscount Palmerston  assured the hon. Baronet that he only did justice to him and to every Member of her Majesty's Government in believing that they fully shared those sentiments of indignation which he had expressed at the extent to which the traffic in slaves still continued under the flag of Portugal; and he could further assure the hon. Baronet that he only did them justice in believing that no effort had been spared on the part of the British Government to induce the government of Portugal to accede to stipulations which should put it not in their power, but in the power of Great Britain, to prevent the continuance of this disgraceful trade. The hon. Baronet must be aware that the British Government had been in negotiation with the government of Por-
 1828 1829
 Lord John Russell  said, that the hon. Member was not justified in calling the act of the provincial legislature an illegal act, inasmuch as that it was distinctly within the power of the Houses of Assembly, acting upon former precedents, to determine that the provincial parliament should not cease, notwithstanding the demise of the Crown. The hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that the act of Anne, which applied to this country, and which required a new election within six months after the demise of the Crown, applied also to the colonies. The provinces of Lower Canada and of Nova Scotia had on former occasions agreed to resolutions, and framed and passed acts founded upon those resolutions, declaring that the Parliament should not be dissolved in case of the demise of the Crown; and he (Lord John Russell) confessed that he could see nothing improper or illegal in these acts. Whatever the necessity at home might be, he could not conceive it requisite with respect to those distant provinces that there should be a fresh election immediately on the demise of the Crown. But the hon. Gentleman had raised another question, namely, that Sir Francis Head had exercised an unusual power in sanctioning this act, instead of reserving it for the consent of the Crown. There was no positive law to prevent the governor of the province from signifying the royal assent to an act of this kind; but at the same time he must admit that there was a general instruction, according to which the governor should reserve a measure of this description for the direct consent of the Crown. Sir Francis Head would have acted more wisely if he had guided himself by that general instruction, and had not given the assent of the Crown in his capacity as governor. It was a point, however, merely of discretion—there was nothing unconstitutional or illegal in the
 1847
 Colonel Sibthorp  expressed his regret that on his at length bringing forward a motion of vast importance he should be compelled to do so in so thin a House. The duty now paid on fire insurances was a tax of 200 per cent. upon the rate at which insurances were effected; that its excessive pressure operated as a tax upon common prudence and forethought. It was a fact well known that more than two-fifths of the amount of property in England was insured, not more than one-half in Ireland, and not more than one-third in Scotland. If a reduction were made in the rate of duty of 100 per cent., that was to say from 3 s. s. d. l. l. s. s. d.
 Dr. Bowring  concurred with the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln (Colonel Sibthorp) in the propriety of reducing the duty on insurances.
 Mr. Hume  seeing the state of the House did not intend to press the motion of which he had given notice for an Address to her Majesty, that she would be pleased to disagree to an Act of the Legislature of Upper Canada, 7 Wm. 4th., c. 17, entitled, "An act to prevent the dissolution of the Parliament of this province, in the event of a demise of the Crown." But, at the same time, he was anxious to put a question to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) upon the subject. Was the noble Lord aware that by the act of the provincial Legislature to which his motion referred—an act carried only by a majority of eight—the sitting of the provincial Parliament would be continued for four years after the demise of the Crown, instead of the ordinary constitutional period of six months? On the part of the Canadians he begged to protest against the whole of the conduct pursued by Sir Francis Head with respect to that Bill. In the first place he complained that Sir Francis Head, having by corrupt means got a Parliament to his liking, induced them to pass an act to continue their sitting for four years; and in the next place he complained that Sir Francis Head had exercised an unconstitutional power in giving the assent of the Crown to a Bill which went to deprive the Canadians of that part of their constitution which gave them an election within six months from the demise of the Crown. The conduct of the governor upon that point was, in fact, illegal, be-
 1846
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  contended that the very admission of the hon. and gallant Officer that the exchequer
 1845 l. l.
 Mr. Fowell  Buxton was much obliged to the right hon. Baronet for that assurance. He begged, however, to put another question connected with the same subject. He had received communications from the Mauritius, by which he was informed that a vast number of the natives of Bengal had of late been imported into that island as well as into some of the West India islands, to assist in the cultivation of sugar. He wished to know how these importations took place, and whether the natives so imported were in any degree regarded as slaves?
  Mr. Bannerman  said, that he was prevented by the immediate termination of the Session, from calling the attention of the House to the memorial from the Moderator of the General Assembly to the first Lord of the Treasury on the subject of Church accommodation in Scotland, agreeably to the notice which he had previously given. He should therefore merely say that if he had had the opportunity of bringing his motion forward, he should
 1855 1856
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the circumstances of this case had already been investigated by the officers of the Crown; and it was considered that no further proceedings were necessary to be taken. Very serious imputations were thrown by the petitioners on individuals who had no opportunity to defend themselves. It was a question deserving the serious consideration of the House, whether petitions were to be made the means of attacking the characters of individuals by the insertion of imputations which it was admitted formed no essential part of the proceedings on which the petitioners founded their complaint. If the person had been, subjected to the injurious treatment set forth in the petition, it was competent for him to prosecute the parties inflicting-the injury, but the present complaint was on the part of certain electors of the county of Ross. What injury was it that had been done to them? Had they lost the vote of Mr. Gibson? Not so; because it was admitted in the petition that Mr. Gibson voted on the second day of
 1859
  Mr. Fowell Buxton  took the opportunity of asking the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control, whether it was the intention of the government of India to put an end to slavery in that country?
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  admitted, that the domestic slaver of the East might at the present momen be of a very mild character; but he felt perfectly satisfied if sugar should be grown to any extent in the East that the system of slavery would soon become as disgraceful as it had ever been in the West.
  Mr. William Gladstone rose , in pursuance of notice, to call the attention of the House to the petition of certain electors for the combined counties of Ross and Cromarty, which he had the honour to present a few evenings ago. The petitioners set forth, that at the last election for the combined counties of Ross and Cromarty, which was contested between Thomas Mackenzie, of Applecross, Esq., and William Mackenzie, of Muirton, Esq., one John Gibson, farmer, was an elector; that on the day preceding the election, a messenger came to inform him that Captain Hugh Clark wished him to come immediately to the house of Mr. Watson, of Cromarty, as the captain was desirous of paying him a sum of money which was due to him. Gibson crossed the ferry that evening, and at the house of Watson met Clark, and two other persons named Reid and Smith, the latter being a surgeon of Cromarty. The parties supped together, and afterwards had a jug of toddy; but before drinking any of it, Gibson asked Clark to settle with him; but Clark said he could not do so then, but would the following day. Gibson drank about three glasses, when he became insensible, in consequence, as it was presumed, of some drug having been mixed with his drink. Between one and two o'clock on Friday morning, a boat's crew came to Watson's house, and with the assistance of Watson, Clark, and others, took Gibson, who was all the time in a state of insensibility, across the Nairn. A chaise was then hired by Watson and others, and into which Gibson was forcibly placed and carried towards Grantown.
 1857 1858
 Sir George Grey  as far as the colonies were concerned, begged to assure the hon. Gentleman that wherever these natives of the East were imported every precaution was taken to preserve them in a state of complete and perfect freedom.
 Sir John Hobhouse  thought, that the hon. Member must himself be well aware that the exportation of these persons from Bengal took place entirely with their own consent, and that they were landed in the different settlements to which they sailed in the character of free labourers. They were no more regarded as slaves than the House of Commons itself. The Governor-general of India, in consequence of the increased exportation of these free labourers, had thought right to make certain regulations for their transport, by which their convenience and comfort were insured. Only a certain number were allowed to embark in any ship, and that under regulations which secured their comfort on the passage. Care was also taken, in case they should not like the country to which they were removed, that every facility should be given them to return.
 Sir John Hobhouse  assured the hon. Gentleman that, supposing sugar to be cultivated on a more extensive scale in
 1854
 Sir John Hobhouse  could only repeat what he had stated in reply to a similar question in the last Session of Parliament, that the Government of India were taking such steps to ameliorate the condition of slavery as, at no distant period, should lead to its total extinction. The hon. Member must be aware that the domestic slavery of the East was very different from that of the slavery of the negroes in the West Indies; but he might rest assured that neither the Home authorities nor the Local Governments would for a moment lose sight of an object which every Englishman desired to see attained—the total extinction of slavery in every part of the British dominions.
 Colonel Thompson  said, before the Speaker left the chair he must make some observations, which he should have made yesterday, when the Bill was read a second time, if he had not been in another place by the directions of those he was bound to attend to. The tendency of the present Bill, and of the mode in which it was proceeded with, seemed to be to hurry through Parliament the decision of the important question, whether, under the actual circumstances of the country, the acceptance of a foreign throne ought not, in expediency and justice, to form a bar to the succession to the throne of this country? He was perfectly aware, and so were the people behind him, that this was a question the combined Legislature of this country was competent to examine. And he knew, too, that great masses of the people of this country had grown up in the belief that the constitution did not labour under the defect of necessitating or admitting such an evident anomaly. It was known to all that no foreign prince nor potentate could have any jurisdiction,
 1894
 Viscount Morpeth  appeared at the bar, and stated, that, together with the other hon. Members appointed by the House to present a message of condolence to her Majesty, the Queen Dowager, he had waited on her Majesty, and had been desired to deliver the following gracious answer:—
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  on rising to move the adoption of the new Standing Orders, relative to private Bills prepared and recommended by the Committee which the House had appointed, said he wished it distinctly to be understood, that no material deviation had been made from the orders now in force, except in one point, and to that point he would afterwards call the attention of the House. The new orders had been carefully prepared, and the Committee which the House had appointed had given the subject the most mature consideration. A sub-committee had been appointed by the original Committee, the members of which had devoted a great deal of time to the revision of the old standing orders, and although they had made no alterations in the substance of those orders, they had very materially improved the phraseology, rendering their meaning more plain and perspicuous. The alterations they had made had also
 1900
 Mr. T. Duncombe  said, if he understood the hon. Member for Lambeth correctly, he proposed not to postpone the further consideration of the report  sine die
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that at the present period of the Session it would be impossible if the proposed postponement were to be made, that the standing orders could be considered until another Session of Parliament; so that all the labours of the Committee, which had been sitting for months, would be completely lost And why? His hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. Hawes) said that many important alterations had been made. Now, he (Mr. P. Thomson) begged to inform the hon. Member that the report proposed no substantial alterations whatever of the standing orders, with the single exception which he had mentioned and explained.
 Mr. Warburton  had read the report and approved of it. The labours of the Committee had been directed, not to alter the standing orders, but to re-arrange them, to place them in better order, and to improve their phraseology. The only alteration proposed was that with respect to railway subscription lists—an alteration which the gross abuse of the old orders of the House rendered absolutely necessary.
 1902
 Mr. Freshfield  thought there could be no serious difference of opinion upon the report. As to the subscription list, he thought, if nothing else were done, that that at least ought to be adopted. The only complaint he had to make on it was that it did not go far enough, and he had originally proposed that the deposit should be twenty per cent, upon the amount of the capital instead of ten percent. The proposed regulation would not interfere with any fair or well-founded transaction, but certainly it would interfere with any foul or improper transaction that ought never to have made its appearance before the public; for that reason he should be most anxious to give his support to the proposition.
 Mr. Heathcote  stated, that he wished to put a question to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade with respect to the state of our trade with France. He had been requested by a number of his constituents to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the Government intended to take any steps to procure an alteration as regarded the trade in wool between the two countries. It appeared that French wool could be introduced into our markets without the payment of any duty, whereas, English wool could not be introduced into France, without the payment of an  ad valorem
 Lord John Russell  gave notice that he should to-morrow move that the Amendments introduced by the Lords into this Bill be taken into consideration. He could at once state that he intended to move that the House disagree with a clause introduced by their Lordships into the Bill respecting those Gentlemen who had been Speakers of the House of Commons. This clause involved a matter peculiarly belonging to that House, and it was quite impossible for that House to allow that it had committed an injustice which might be implied by the adoption of the clause, and it was also impossible that the House of Lords should be permitted to interfere with the proceedings of that House, and be enabled to say how it should carry into effect its own wishes and intentions. On these grounds he should move that that House disagree with this Amendment of the Lords. The Bill itself only suspended the appointment to ecclesiastical sinecure situations for a-year, by the expiration of which time he hoped that the general measure would pass on the subject. He wished also to add, that as it was too late during the present Session, he should be happy on a future occasion to enter upon the consideration and discussion as to any equitable claims that these reverend gentlemen might have.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  replied, that he had not ceased to press on the French Government the advantage that they would derive from the reduction of the duty on English wool, as well as other duties; but his exertions had not hitherto been attended with the success he could wish. The hon. Gentleman was under a mistake in supposing that there was no duty on the importation of French wool into this country—there was a small duty on that article. The proceeding of this country, however, only showed how much wiser we were than the French, as it enabled us to manufacture woollens at a much cheaper rate than the French. He would only add, that he would continue to exert himself to instruct the French
 1904
 Sir Robert Inglis  denied that the House of Lords had interfered with any of the
 1903
 Lord John Russell  said, he could only
 1909
 Lord J. Russell  really thought that these were questions, if asked at all, might have been asked at an earlier period of the Session. One of them, that relating to the treaty of Unkiar Skelessi, might have been asked two or three years ago. Upon particular points or questions relating to the general policy of the country,
 1913
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he believed that Russia had a considerable force in the Baltic, and, generally speaking, they were ready to be put to sea. It was not usual to answer questions as to the disposition of the naval force of this country; but this he would say, that whenever and by whatever power this country might be attacked, there was always a sufficient force in England to resist the attack where so ever and when so ever that attack might be made.
 The Speaker  said, he had already told the hon. Member what was the rule of the House, and it was now entirely with the House to decide whether they would hear the hon. Member or not.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised at the speech of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, considering the manner in which he generally stood forward in defence of the privileges of the House. In his opinion, the House would do wrong to agree to the amendments of the Lords; but he allowed, that the rev. Gentlemen had a claim to some preferment, and he should be glad to see the House take the matter into its consideration.
 Mr. T. Attwood  thought the House, by their smiles and their cheers, had given him their gentle permission to go on. If the noble Lord wished to pass through the country with flying colours, let him give a full and explicit answer to all these questions. Let the House be told what was to be done with Russia.
 Mr. T. Attwood  rose to put some questions to her Majesty's Government respecting the conduct of Russia towards this Government. He wished the noble Lord who was at the head of the Foreign Department had been present; but, as he was not, he trusted that the noble Home Secretary, or some other Member of her Majesty's Government, would answer his questions, which were: —1. Is it the final determination of her Majesty's Government to submit to the violations of the treaty of Vienna by Russia, in respect of Poland and of Cracow? 2. Is it their determination to allow Russia to receive Circassia as a gift from Turkey, under the treaty of Adrianople, Russia having previously contracted with England to receive "no separate advantage" from Turkey, in the war which terminated in that treaty? 3. Is it their determination to allow Russia to hold possession of the Delta of the Danube, in defiance of the above contract with England? Supposing the above contract on the part of Russia to be waived, is it their determination to allow Russia to receive a gift from Turkey, which Turkey had no
 1912 Laughter. Laughter. "Put your questions."
 Mr. T. Attwood  hoped the Secretary to the Admiralty would answer the question respecting the Russian fleet in the Baltic.
 Mr. Estcourt  fully agreed with what had fallen from his hon. Colleague (Sir R. Inglis), as he considered the claim of the rev. Gentlemen upon the House and upon the Crown, to be of so strong a nature, as to amount almost to the force of a vested right. It should be remembered, that if the clause were rejected, the Crown would be prevented from doing what more than one House of Commons had requested to be done; and, under these circumstances, he should vote for the retention of the clause.
 Sir R. Inglis  agreed with the amendment, as he thought the honour of the House, as well as the honour of the Crown, were pledged to what the noble Lord (John Russell) called a favour, but what he considered an act of justice. In 1832, an Address had been sent from that House to his late Majesty, praying that his Majesty would be pleased to confer on the three Rev. Gentlemen some preferments in the Church as a recompense for their services as chaplains of that House. To that Address, Lord Althorp had brought down a message from the Crown, stating that his Majesty would comply with the prayer of the Commons; but since that time no ecclesiastical appointment had been conferred on either of
 1910
 Alderman Thompson  hoped the hon. Member for Newport, would not press his opposition to a division. If the Bill did not pass, Sunderland would be put to great inconvenience and expense, and it was to be feared, that the greatest confusion would ensue.
 Lord John Russell  said, this was a Bill which had been under the consideration of Parliament for a length of time, and one
 1917
 Mr. D. Barclay  then said, that he thought nothing could have been more fair than the proposition sent up by that House to the Lords in regard to the Bill then under consideration. He could not approve of the amendment which had been sent down, but upon the whole he considered the noble Lord (John Russell) justified in the motion he had submitted to the House.
 Mr. Hawkins  could not consent to such a motion, for were the clause, as amended by the Lords, to pass, Newport and Rochester would be most injuriously affected by its operation. The Bill might be of advantage to Ipswich and Sunderland, but it would be productive of the worst consequences as regarded Newport and Rochester, and, as the representative of one of those places, he could not consent that the amendments should stand part of the Bill. He was surprised that the noble Lord (John Russell) should consent to the Clause as it now stood, and he was amazed that some other person, instead of that noble Lord whose son was now a candidate for Rochester, should not have been found to propose those amendments in the other House of Parliament. He thought respect for public opinion might have prevented Lord Wynford from coming forward on the subject; and, as the representative of Newport, he (Mr. Hawkins) considered himself bound to protest against the amendment, and to oppose it by every means in his power.
 Mr. Estcourt  would not enter at all into the merits of the Bill, but seeing no other Friend then present of the noble Lord whose name had been so unnecessarily introduced into the debate, he rose, however incompetent for the task, to answer the charge which had been made and to vindicate the conduct of that noble Lord. No Friend of that noble Lord was present, no notice had been given of the charge which had been brought against him, and under these circumstances he (Mr. Estcourt) thought he had a just right to complain that Lord Wynford's name had been introduced in the manner it had been by the hon. Member for Newport. Had any intimation of such a charge been given to the noble Lord, he had no doubt that some Friend of his Lordship would have been present to defend him, and that the noble Lord would have been able to give the most satisfactory reasons for the course he had pursued. But that intimation had not been given, and there was no Friend of the noble Lord present who was acquainted with his Lordship's reasons for acting as he had done and it was not therefore fair or just that a charge should have been brought against the noble Lord in a place where he could not have an opportunity of replying, and while no Friend was present capable of explaining the reasons of his adoption of the course which he had pursued in regard to this Bill, and of vindicating his character from the charge which had been brought against him. It was also an unusual course to introduce the names of individual Members of the other House in debates in that House in the way in which the name of Lord Wynford had been introduced in the present dis-
 1919
 The Attorney-General  said, the case was not Newport and Rochester against Ipswich and Sunderland, but Newport and Rochester against all England; for,
 1918
 Colonel Thompson , seeing a Member of her Majesty's Government in the House, would ask the
 1923
 Colonel Thompson .: Then, Sir, at an early period of the next Session of Parliament, I shall move for leave to bring in a Bill to declare that in the existing circumstances of the Crown, no foreign prince or potentate ought to have any jurisdiction, power, superiority pre-eminence, authority, or succession, within this realmorany of the Queen's dominions; and to vest the succession, in the event of the demise of her Majesty, in Prince George of Cambridge, and his heirs.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  could give no answer to the question. It was rather a question for the States of Hanover to consider.
 Mr. G. F. Young  observed, that it was no doubt true that the hon. Member for the city of London had given his concurrence to the extension of the period of three months to twelve; but the statement that that extension of time had met with the concurrence of his colleagues, the directors of the Bank, was in contradiction to what was averred by an hon. Member on Saturday last, who expressly declared that as an individual director of the Bank the extension of the period to twelve months had not his individual concurrence.
 Mr. Warburton  begged to observe, that the statement made on Saturday was, that the Bank directors approved of the period of six months, and of that term only; therefore he was glad to have elicited from his hon. Friend the expression of his approbation of the term being extended to twelve months.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that seeing his hon. Friend (Mr. Pattison), at present one of the Members for the city of London, and who he hoped would continue to be so, in his place, he wished to ask him whether the Bill which had been brought in respecting the clause inserted in the charter of the Bank of England for discounting bills of exchange at three months, at a higher rate of interest than five per cent., and which went to extend that period to twelve months, met with his approbation, and with the approbation of his colleagues in the directory of the Bank of England?
 Mr. Pattison  was understood to say, that when he joined in bringing in the Bill to which his hon. Friend had referred at the commencement of the Session, he did so because he approved of the principle of the Bill, and because he had previously con-
 1924
 Mr. Ley  the clerk of the House, accompanied by a considerable number of Members, immediately proceeded to the House of Lords, and after hearing the Commission read, returned to the House. Mr. Ley the chief clerk, took his seat at the head of the table.
 Lord John Russell,  in moving that the House do now adjourn, begged to congratulate the Speaker on being again elected, and that by an unanimous vote of the House, to fill his high office. There might be some persons, who, considering only the number of precedents by which the proceedings of that House were formed, and the rules and regulations which in the course of centuries had been framed for the government of its proceedings, conceived the duty of the Speaker to be not attended with much difficulty. But such persons, did not, in his opinion, take a just and fitting view of the Speaker's duties. The varying state of parties, the new aspect of political questions, the animating subjects of the discussions interposed difficulties which it was impossible for any foresight to provide for; but, beyond all this, the subject to which his hon. Friend, the Member for Hampshire, had alluded—namely, the state of the private business before the House, the increased number of transactions which in this great and opulent commercial country, were brought under the consideration of Parliament and the complaints which were made from time to time of the manner in which that business was transacted, all called upon the Speaker to exercise great discretion, and to give the House the benefit of his experience, and to assist its deliberations by his advice in all questions of difficulty which required investigation and judgment. I feel confident, Sir, continued
 12
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  rose and said: In obedience to her Majesty's commands, they were now assembled for the discharge of one of the most important duties that devolved on the Representatives of the people; and if at any former period the election of Speaker had been considered a question involving great and serious responsibility, on which not only the character of the House, but the success of its deliberations, must, in a great measure, depend, the present was not an occasion when that responsibility Was in the least degree diminished, or when the exercise of that important function of the House of Commons created less interest in the minds of the people. If they valued the ancient privileges of that House, which had always and justly been considered among the best securities of the liberties of the people, they could not be indifferent to the choice of that individual who must be the organ, by whom those privileges were to be vindicated and maintained; and the more those privileges were threatened with encroachment, the more it became their duty to confide them to the guardianship of one on whose ability, firmness, and discretion, they could place the most implicit reliance. But with regard to the more immediate and practical duties of the Speaker, he could not conceal from himself that in the present situation of public affairs his position must be one of peculiar difficulty. Looking to the measures which were likely to come under consideration, looking to the relative strength of parties, and the unfortunately excited state of political and party feeling, aggravated undoubtedly by the recent election contests, he believed that at no
 4 5 6
 Mr. Strutt  said, that in rising to second the motion made by his hon. Friend, the Member for Hampshire, he was well aware that any Member who ventured to second the nomination of another to fill the high and important office of Speaker, took upon himself a serious responsibility. Any person acquainted with the history of this country, or who had paid any attention to the course of events in France during the last half century, could have no doubt that the most important results might arise from the rules which regulated the proceedings of an assembly like the present, and from the manner in which those rules were enforced by the chair. If, there fore, he felt no doubt or hesitation in rising to second the motion then before the House, it was not because he was disposed to undervalue either the importance or the responsibility of the office of their Speaker, but because he felt convinced, that they could not. find in the House any Member qualified to perform its arduous duties with more honour to himself, and with more advantage to the country, than his right hon. Friend, the Member for Edinburgh. During the last three years, the House had had experience of the manner in which those duties
 7 8
 Mr. S. Lefevre and Mr. Strutt  conducted Mr. Abercromby to the chair, amidst cheers from both sides of the House.
 The Speaker : —"Gentlemen, to be placed in this chair, under any circumstances, must be deemed by any commoner a high and distinguished honour—to be replaced in it, after filling it for three years, and that, too, by an unanimous vote of the House, is an honour which I shall ever cherish and esteem as the proudest of my life. The only expression of gratitude which I have to make to you is this:—that I resume my place in this chair most firmly and zealously desirous to do all in my power to merit the future confidence of the House."
 Mr. Abercromby  was conscious that he owed the recommendations of the two hon. Friends who had proposed him as a fit person to fill the chair of that House to their kindness, rather than to any services which he had rendered the House during the three Sessions in which he had had the honour to preside over its deliberations. If he reverted at all to the peculiar circumstances in which he had the honour of being originally placed in the Chair, it would only be for the purpose of
 10 11
 Sir Robert Peel  rose for the mere purpose of stating, that he did not feel called upon to give any opposition to the proposal which had been just made and seconded by the hon. Members opposite. He conceived that it would be very difficult to lay down any rule with respect to the principle which ought to influence a Member opposed to the Government, or a party opposed to the Government, either in acquiescence in, or in opposition to, a proposal of this nature. It would be very difficult, he repeated, to lay down any rule, either of universal, or of general application, to such a case. Much must depend upon the circumstances of the time, much on the weight of competing claims, much on considerations of a personal, a temporary, and even a special nature. Considering, then, the special circumstances of the House at present—considering, that in the event of a contest, a majority—a small majority, but still a majority—would decide in favour of the re-election of the right hon. Member for Edinburgh to the chair—coupling also with that consideration, the personal respect which he had felt for that right hon. Gentleman, even when he was a candidate for the chair against his noble Friend, Lord Canterbury, and which he still continued to feel for him, he was led to acquiesce in the present proposition, and in that acquiescence the party with which he
 9
 Lord Leveson  rose to move, that an humble address be presented to the Queen, returning to her Majesty the thanks of that House for the gracious Speech which had just been delivered to both Houses of Parliament from the Throne. He trusted that the House would not prove insensible to the difficulties of the charge which he had undertaken; that if he failed in the ability, he hoped they would give him credit for the desire, to do it justice, and he begged to assure them that he said this, not as giving expression to mere formal words of course, but under a strong conviction of the arduous nature of the task which he had undertaken. Although influenced by the feelings which such a conviction could not fail to produce, he ventured to hope that the House would extend to him an indulgence at least equal to that which they had shown him in that place on a former occasion, and that he might, however imperfectly, be permitted to make a few observations having reference to the Speech which they had just heard, and at the same time offer, very briefly, a few of the grounds which ought to lead the House of Commons to an unanimous vote in favour of an address to her Majesty, which address he proposed should echo the sentiments that had been so graciously uttered from the Throne. The Speech was composed in a manner so perfectly conciliatory, that it would ill become him not to follow the example which had been presented to them from the highest quarter; he should, therefore, in the few remarks which he had to offer, avoid anything in the remotest degree, approaching an angry tone of discussion, as that which was not
 32 33 " Oh! oh!" and Cheers 34 35 36
 Mr. Gibson Craig  seconded the Address. He observed, that it was the first time he had ever risen to address the House of Commons; that he was not only new to Parliament, but utterly unacquainted with its forms. He therefore hoped, they would excuse any omissions or irregularities of which he might be guilty. The ability and eloquence with which the noble Lord who preceded him had addressed the House, rendered it the less necessary that he (Mr. G. Craig) should detain them at any length in discharging the duty which devolved upon him as seconder of the Motion; in the earlier part of her Majesty's Speech, however, an allusion had been made, which he could not pass over in silence, and that was to the necessity of making adequate provision for the poor of Ireland. In making alterations in the institutions of a country, it was important that the minds of a people should neither be moved by angry feelings nor influenced by prejudice. The hon. Member appeared to have entertained the intention of addressing the House at greater length, and referred to his notes, remaining a few minutes on his legs without speaking; but after some
 37
 Mr. Wakley and Mr. Harvey  rose together. The Speaker called on
 Sir William Molesworth  seconded the amendment. He said, that the speech from the Throne ought to explain fully to the House and to the country the course intended to be pursued by the responsible advisers of her Majesty, and the reasons for that course should be so stated that the Representatives of the people might form a general idea of the intended policy of the Government. Instead, however, of the Queen's speech being what it ought to be, it was a bald, disjointed assemblage of words, in which every phrase was intentionally obscure, from which the framers seemed carefully and successfully to have laboured to exclude all sense and all argument, and to have kept in view but one single idea, namely, to frame a discourse about which all discussion should be impossible, as it should contain no topic for debate. The omissions in the speech which had just been read to the House were most important, and he rejoiced most sincerely that an hon. Gentleman had moved an amendment to the address, for the purpose of supplying those omissions. He trusted, likewise, that her Majesty's Ministers were prepared to supply what had been omitted in the speech by their acts during the Session of Parliament, and that they would make a declaration to that effect that night. The omissions of which he
 49 50 51
 Mr. Hume  trusted that her Majesty's Ministers would state to the House what were their specific intentions with respect to the points in question. He could have no hesitation in saying, that in much of that which had been expressed by the hon. Members who had just spoken he entirely concurred; and he could not help thinking that her Majesty's Ministers had improperly shrunk from laying before the House that fair and candid explanation of their intended course of proceeding which those who had so long and heartily supported them had a right to expect. This conduct of Ministers must proceed either from an apprehension of hostility on the part of hon. Gentlemen opposite, or from a resolution on their own parts not to
 52 53 "Your attention will also be directed to the state of the church, more particularly as regards its temporalities, and the maintenance of the clergy. The complaints which have arisen from the collection of tithes appear to require a change of system, which, without diminishing the means of maintaining the established clergy in respectability and usefulness, may prevent the collision of interests, and the consequent disagreement and dissatisfaction which have too frequently prevailed between the ministers of the church and their parishioners. "It may also be necessary for you to consider what remedies may be applied for the correction of acknowledged abuses, and whether the revenues of the church may not admit of a more equitable and judicious distribution." 54 55 56 57 58
 Mr. Grote  said, he wished to say a few words on the subject of the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury, and though a portion of what he was about to state had been anticipated by the hon. Member for Middlesex—he meant to say, the hon. Member for Kilkenny, Mr. Hume—nevertheless he thought it his duty to make a few observations on the same subject. In the substance of every one of the three amendments which were proposed he heartily concurred, and most assuredly if either or all of them were pressed to a division, he should vote for them; for though he condemned the introduction of them at that moment, as the very reverse of opportune or seasonable, yet he could not so far disavow the principles he had so long entertained as to refuse to support
 59 60 61
 The Speaker  intimated that the language used was not strictly parliamentary.
 Mr. Liddell : if he had in any manner trespassed beyond the order of debate, he apologised to the House for having done so. He considered that the support of the hon. Member was secured by some mode or another; but he did not mean to impute anything corrupt. It was to that support the ministry looked, and he now wished to know from them if they intended to throw over the Protestant Church in Ireland, he wished to know if they intended to maintain it in its efficiency and usefulness? It had pleased the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to dissolve his Irish Parliament; he possessed in this more than a royal prerogative. He did not know why the hon. Member had done so; but he had no doubt that it was in consequence of some communication that he should receive a  quid pro quo
 Colonel Perceval  felt called upon, peculiarly called upon, to protest against the terms "domestic tranquility" being applicable to that portion of the empire with which he was connected. He had the honour of representing the county of Sligo, which was the scene of sanguinary tragedies that were almost a matter of daily occurrence. He felt it to be his duty to reserve to himself the power of impugning her Majesty's Government, especially with reference to their "domestic tranquility" in Ireland. He should not disgust that House by entering into details in proof of the protest which he felt it to be his duty to make. He had no intention of withholding his vote from the motion of the noble Lord, the Member for Morpeth, but he felt it to be his duty to protest against the language used in the address being applicable to that portion of the empire which it grieved him to say was a disgrace to any civilised state.
 Lord John Russell : I fully acknowledge the right of every hon. Member of this House to question her Majesty's Ministers with respect to any explanation which the Speech from the Throne may require. I must at once say, that while I am ready to afford any explanation that may be demanded with respect to the Speech itself, I am willing to admit that the reproach is well founded, if it be a reproach, that the Speech was framed with a view to prevent any adverse discussion; and if it be a fault then the fault is ours, that on this the first day, when Queen Victoria was to meet her Parliament, we were anxious, in the divided, and balanced state of parties, to avoid bringing forward questions upon which it might be necessary for Gentlemen, in vindication of their own consistency, and in justice to their previously recorded opinions, to raise angry discussions, and, further, to carry them to a division. We did think that on such an occasion, it was desirable that the Queen should receive, if not an unanimous, at least a nearly unanimous, address from this House, and that our expressions of loyalty to the Throne, and attachment to her person should not be marred and disfigured by being mingled with questions upon which opinions are known to be divided. If this be a fault—if this be a crime in her Majesty's Ministers—then we are certainly guilty of that crime, and we framed the Speech in accordance with
 66 67 68 69 bonâ fide 70 71 72 73
 Sir Robert Peel : Sir, I have frequently, on an opportunity like the present, taken an occasion to express my opinion, both when in office and when in opposition to the Government, that it was not convenient on the first day of Session to call upon Parliament to give pledges upon any subject. I have expressed that opinion because I think it unfair, Government being naturally and necessarily in
 74 75 76 77 78 79 carte blanche 80
 Mr. Ward  came down to the House intending to oppose, and, if called upon, to vote against the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury; but he now felt bound to say, that if the motion were pressed to a division, he should vote in favour of it. He was induced to adopt this course, partly by the speech of the hon. Baronet opposite, but chiefly, he grieved to say, by certain observations which had fallen from the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, in the course of his speech. The noble Lord would find that he had disappointed the hopes of his best and fairest supporters, when he said that the ballot would be a repeal of the Reform Bill. By that declaration, the noble Lord had signed his death-warrant. For as election succeeded election it would be found impossible to carry on the representation of the country, limited by the propositions now laid down by the noble Lord, and then the term of his political career would be determined. He regretted that the noble Lord had advanced
 81
 Mr. Wakley  said, it was not his intention to press his two other resolutions to a division. He was persuaded that the course which he had taken was not unproductive of benefit. Notwithstanding the declaration of the noble Lord that his three powders had produced no effect on him, he must be allowed to declare his opinion, that the first of them had operated most beneficially. The noble Lord should be the last person to complain of them if they were as beneficial to his constitution as they were favourable to the object with reference to which they were submitted. He was aware that the dose was a bitter one; but the noble Lord had managed to swallow it, and had in a manly spirit avowed his intentions with respect to the Reform Bill. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had also made known his views on the same subject, and they certainly warranted the presumption which he had expressed at an early part of the debate, and proved that if a coalition had not in person taken place, there had been one at any rate in point of principle. His motion had certainly elicited this fact, that the
 82
 Mr. Harvey  rose and said, be was well aware how tempting a royal speech was to Members of that House in availing themselves of the occasion to speak upon almost every conceivable subject, and perhaps, if it had been his fortune to have arrested the Speaker's attention earlier in the evening, he might have been led to make some remarks beyond those which were warranted by the amendment he was about to propose. But he hoped still that it would be unnecessary to enter at any length into a statement in support of that amendment; because to a certain extent, the statement made by the noble Lord in answer to an inquiry from his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, had anticipated the introductory part of his amendment; and he would first read it to the House with a view to elicit from the noble Lord an answer to the passage with which it concluded; and if he found that answer, in one particular, as satisfactory, as in a great degree it was in another, he should not trespass upon the attention of the House, already so much exhausted, by a debate which could give little satisfaction; or upon its time, so much of which had been consumed, in a division which could give none. The amendment which he had to propose, was to the effect, "that whilst that House was desirous of making the most liberal provision for the support of the becoming splendor and the just dignity of the Crown, they felt that the same ought to be derived from obvious and direct sources, and that each and every branch of the hereditary revenues of the Crown ought to be placed, without reserve or exception, under the direct control of Parliament, as a sure means of protecting the Crown against exaggerated impressions as to their amount, and as a security against their misapplication—that in the arrangement of the Civil List, that House confidently relied upon her Majesty, for promoting a strict inquiry into the pensions connected with the recipients of state favours, that House feeling itself under the obligation of applying to such persons a test, similar to one recently adopted, and now in force amongst a less fortunate portion of her Majesty's subjects." The first portion of this amendment went obviously to carry into effect sincerely, and without reserve, the declarations of the Members of the present Government, when they were in opposition, with respect to the intentions of those whom they supplanted. The in-
 84 85 l l l 86 87 88 89
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the hon. Gentleman had not stated his wish to divide the House on the subject, he should refrain, as much as possible, from entering into any opposition to his arguments, and should rather confine himself to those points upon which the hon. Gentlemen had asked for explanation. With regard to the Duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall, he did not think, he must say, that what he had stated, exactly met the words of the hon. Gentleman at the beginning of his speech. At the same time, he thought that, when his right hon. Friend should state the whole matter in detail, it would at once do away with the objections of the hon. Gentleman as regarded any mystery with respect to the amount of the revenues or the misappropriation to which he alluded. His right hon. Friend would state what was the usual and average receipt from these duchies, and would take care that provisions should be made by which accounts, with respect to them, should be regularly laid before Parliament. There was, as the right hon. Gentleman opposite justly remarked, a distinction between the duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall, the duchy of Lancaster being absolutely in the possession of the Crown, and the duchy of Cornwall being now in the possession of the Crown, but descending to the heir when there shall be an heir apparent. With respect to the other point to which the hon. Gentleman referred—a revision of the Pension-list—he could only say, that the Government meant to propose a reference generally of the papers respecting the Pension-list to the Committee. It had been the custom for some years to give to Parliament, not only the general amount, but the names on the list and the sums distributed amongst them. That was the practice up to the present time, and the list containing former pensions, as well as those granted by the late Sovereign, would be referred, with other papers, to a Select Committee. The Committee would have these papers before them in the same manner as the Committee of 1830. At the same time, he should not make a due return for the candid argument of the hon. Gentleman, if he did not tell him his impression with
 90
 Mr. Harvey  said, he gathered from the statement of the noble Lord that, so far as his opinion went, it was not the intention of the Government of their own accord to institute any revision of the Pension-list, but that if the House thought fit to instruct them so to do, it was the right of the House; and the Government would listen, if not yield to such instruction. With this understanding, and much regretting the statement of the noble Lord, when the Committee should be appointed, as there was too much reason to fear it would be little likely to afford a guarantee for the expectation that any voluntary inquiry would be instituted into the Pension-list, he should feel it his duty to move a special instruction to the Committee to inquire  seriatim 91
 Mr. C. Bullet  said, that as a Reformer and a friend of the present Government he could not help feeling great regret at the declarations made last night by the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, respecting the present state of the representation of the people in this country. In the few remarks he should make he wished to call the attention of the House, not so much to the Speech delivered from the Throne as to the unfortunate debate which
 99 100 101 102
 The Attorney-General  said, that extensive measures of Law Reform were now in preparation, under the direction of the Lord Chancellor and the Judges; and he trusted that, under such circumstances, the gallant Captain would consent to postpone his motion.
 Captain Pechell  could not consent to postpone his motion, except the Attorney-General would himself give notice of a Bill for the object of his motion.
 Mr. Goulburn  would suggest to the gallant captain whether it would not be better to leave law reform to the gen-
 117
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  trusted that the hon. Member having been assured that Government was engaged in the most solemn manner with the subject of his motion, would consent to postpone it. The hon. and Gallant Member would not be concluded by whatever measure might be brought forward by the Government; undoubtedly not, but he would ask the hon. and Gallant Member to wait until the Government measure was brought forward, and if it should require amendment it would be quite competent in the hon. Member to propose it. If the Gallant Captain were inclined to blame the Attorney-General for not bringing forward a motion on the subject, he ought to recollect that the Attorney-General had sat in that House, night after night, to obtain an opportunity for the discussion of a Bill in which the entire public was interested. And was he to be held responsible for the delay, for which he was not at all to blame? Under all the circumstances, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) trusted that the Gallant Captain would postpone his motion.
 Captain Pechell  consented to follow the advice of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and postpone his motion, but he would not relinquish it. He knew the value of perseverance. He should never have carried his Bill for the abolition of tithe on turnips—were it not for the manner in which he persevered.
 Mr. Goulburn  would leave it to the At-
 118
 The Attorney-General  confessed he very much deplored that such a notice had been put on the paper. It would, if the hon. and gallant Member were successful, lead the House to interfere very improperly with a question of great difficulty, if not occasion the subversion of a fundamental principle of the law of England, as respected the non-liability of married women. He never would turn a deaf ear to the representations of the trading community; but on the present application to the House it should be recollected that even by the hon. Member's own confession the evil was most frequently experienced at Brighton and the watering places, owing to the great competition amongst the trades people, and the facility thus afforded to almost every description of people of obtaining credit. There was but one safe principle recognised by our law upon this head, and that was that the wife or  femme couverte 119
 Colonel Evans  said, since his return to England he had been most anxious for an opportunity to explain and disabuse the House and the country of many erroneous impressions, which had been the result of a number of unfounded statements that had passed current owing to the accident of his not being here to answer them; but though he was thus anxious to go into the subject, he was aware that this was not the moment at which, in his opinion, the House would be disposed to admit the discussion. He, however, was entirely in the hands of the House. Whatever was the pleasure of the House with respect to this matter, he was willing to obey it. He would only say that many hon. Gentlemen had requested him not to go into the subject at this time, and if he did not, he hoped that neither his hon. Friends around him nor his Friends out of the House, who were disposed to support the cause in which he had been engaged, and to which he felt himself most deeply attached, nor the hon. Gentlemen opposite—he hoped that no man would attribute his abstaining from the discussion to any want of confidence in the statements which he had it in his power to make. In deferring to the wish of this House, which he thought he could not mistake, and which he understood to be an anxious desire to avoid any unnecessary difference or unpleasantness in con-
 114
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that perhaps this Would be the most convenient time for him to state why he had given notice of a motion to the same effect: and he should do so very briefly. It appeared to him that the plan of deciding a mode of trial as it was stated by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard was not such a one as would do away with the substantial objection. The substantial objection was, that they had the same parties jurors and prosecutors; that, hitherto, had been the objection to the whole House being concerned in those trials. The Grenville Act removed the mischief for a considerable period, but for a long time it had been renewed in another shape. His plan was just this—he should propose to bring in a Bill authorising the Speaker when a petition was presented, to name, on his own responsibility, five persons as a Committee to conduct and manage the trial of that petition. He should propose that those five persons should retire as a Committee to receive the petition and counter-statement of the petitioners, and the statement of the sitting Members; that the Committee having received those statements and counter-statements, as the present Committees did, should retire and make an abstract of the different facts and points in controversy, and make that abstract numerical; that the parties should then be called before the Committee, that they should be furnished with copies of the abstract, and that they should be required to state their objections, if any, or any reasons they might urge, why they consider it necessary to enlarge the number of the questions. The Committee then, after hearing counsel on both sides, would decide what the questions should be, and having so done, they would report those questions to the House, whereupon the Speaker would issue his warrant to the Court of Queen's Bench, in the nature of an order issued out of the Court of Chancery for the trial of a feigned issue. The Speaker's
 116
 Sir George Strickland  thought, such a Bill as that introduced by his hon. and gallant Friend ought to be duly examined, and the motion should, therefore, have his support.
 Sir E. Wilmot  said, his motion, if he had made one, had nothing to do with the subjects referred to by the hon. Member for Finsbury. The only object he had in view was to afford convenience to the Members of this House attending the other House as other strangers. He was very loth to make his motion, because he was informed from good authority that, after what had been said here last night, it was
 124
 Mr. Wallace  rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the causes of the irregularities and delays which have taken place in the transmission of the mails by the railway from Birmingham to Liverpool. It was perfectly well known what great regularity existed under the old mail-coach system in the transmission of the mails, but some irregularities had crept into the new system, the causes of which he was anxious to have investigated by a Committee of the House. Instead of arguing the question he would state a few facts. The first railway which had been used on a large scale for the transmission of the mails was that between Birmingham and Liverpool. At first the mails arrived very nearly within their time, but since then they had been gradually losing more and more time, until at length there was a difference of two hours between the time they ought to arrive and the time they really arrived. This had been the cause of great inconvenience, and in Scotland particularly, in consequence of this irregularity, a day was lost in the return of the post. He did not throw blame on any one; he did not know on whom the blame, if there was any, rested. He had merely stated facts which he was prepared to prove before the Committee, if it were granted. Under these circumstances he would content himself with moving for the Committee in the terms of his notice.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, he doubted whether the subject embraced by the motion of the hon. Member was of sufficient importance to deserve investigation at the hands of the House. The House must recollect that in the commencement of so great an undertaking they must naturally expect some accidents; and he thought that it was scarcely worth the attention of the House, under the circumstances, either to pass censure upon, or to take means to ascertain, the causes of these accidents. One subject connected with the conveyance of the mails by railroads was under the con-
 125
 Mr. Francis Baring  observed, that from the situation which he had the honour to hold, and the nature of the business he had to conduct, the carrying of the present motion would as a matter of personal convenience be greater to him than any other hon. Member in that House; at the same time he must say, that he could not conceive any motion more calculated to impede the progress of the public business than the one now proposed for adoption by the hon. Member for Salford. No doubt it was desirable that public business should not be proceeded with after twelve o'clock; but was it not likely, if five hon. Members were to have it in their power to move the adjournment of a question, and that the House was then to proceed according to the words of the motion of the hon. Member for Salford, was it not possible, nay, very probable, that five other hon. Gentlemen might go on to take a similar objection to the next order on the paper, and the whole of the remaining orders of the day might be postponed by this course of proceeding to the great detriment of parties, and to the serious delay of the business of the House? He trusted after what had passed, that the hon. Member for Salford would not persevere in his motion, but rest satisfied with following a similar course to that which was pursued in the last Session.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  trusted the hon. Member would not consent to withdraw his Motion. He thought, however, some modification in the wording of the resolution was necessary, in order to meet the objection of the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton,) that the previous subject under debate should not be affected by the resolution.
 Lord John Russell  said: Sir, I think it necessary, after the observations which have fallen from the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, to answer those parts of the hon. Member's remarks which had reference to myself, as well as to the important subject which last night was brought under the consideration of the House. With respect to the part connected with myself, I very much regret that the hon. Gentleman, who, in the latter part of his speech, made an admission that what I said must be taken with qualification, should have been led to attribute to me in the early part of his speech an intention of seeking for a pretext for quarrelling with my supporters, and as ready to throw away the orange which I had sucked. The hon. Member said, that he hoped that I had found some ground for placing my future reliance on the opposite party. I must say, that an imputation of conduct more base or dishonourable, as it affects the motives and character of a public
 103 104 105 106 107 108 109
 Mr. Charles Buller,  in explanation, said, that he ought not to have accused the noble Lord of "seeking a pretext" to quarrel with his supporters for the sake of forming a coalition with the other side of the House. That was language which he ought not to have employed.
 Mr. C. Buller  rose for leave to bring in a Bill of considerable importance. He could not say that he thought it likely he should be able to carry it through the House without much opposition and discussion; but he must declare, on the experience of Gentlemen of all parties, that he did flatter himself in a matter like this, in which justice was the interest of every Member of this House, those feelings of honour which were prevalent among Gentlemen would induce them to give up that lamentable party feeling which had brought their conduct on these questions into disrepute in the country. He hoped, from the indication he witnessed of an improved temper in the House, that they would endeavour to establish a tribunal such as would not subject them to the reproach which was now directed against their Election Committees. The plan which he was about to bring in, and which he brought in under the direction of the Committee of which he had the honour to be the chairman, was the result of their mature deliberation, and was before Parliament in the course of the last Session. During that Session he did not succeed in getting it discussed, but it was printed and placed in the hands of hon. Members. His present plan was different from that of last year only in this respect, that it did not make any alteration which involved considerable complication; it did not renew the attempt which had been made, very properly, to get rid of the present system of composing Election Committees from the whole House, and substitute a smaller number whose attendance could be compelled. Though he submitted that the House would do well to adopt that plan, he did not propose to endeavour to establish it at the present moment. In other respects the measure he now introduced was the same as that of last year. Under these circumstances he did not consider it necessary for him to go into any explanation of the details. The Bill having been
 115
 Mr. Hindley  seconded the motion, and said that, with the leave of the House, he would adduce an authority in favour of it. In the second report of the Poor-law Commissioners it was stated that much inconvenience had arisen from the evening sittings of parish boards, and that since the practice had been altered, and early meetings had been enforced, much advantage had resulted. Hon. Gentlemen might laugh, but he knew that the reports of the Poor-law Commissioners were esteemed high authority by many hon. Gentlemen; and he, therefore, hoped the statement which he had made from that source would have its due weigh ton the present occasion. The right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire had frequently admitted that owing to late sittings many Bills had slipped through Parliament without the investigation which their importance deserved, and this, as well as the general inconvenience which resulted from it, induced him to
 127
 Colonel Sibthorp  must give the motion his humble opposition upon urgent public grounds. It would be, in his mind, highly injurious also to the innkeeper's interest that the property of the inmate should not be placed under the implied special protection of the owner of the house. It would rob such parties of the security for their property which now brought them to frequent such houses, and enabled the owner to keep them open and provide for their families out of the high profits of such inns and licensed houses.
 Sir E. Sugden  thought the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member was not practicable. In the case of the innkeeper, the outer door was generally open, and it would be impossible for the party leaving his goods to watch them himself. The responsibility lay with the innkeeper, and he thought it was better for all parties that that responsibility should continue. If it were taken away, parties who now resorted to inns, would go to lodging-houses.
 Mr. Shaw  put it to the House whether any Government could carry on the business of the country if such a proposition as that now before them were to be acted upon. He would ask, was it not possible that there should always be five Members who, in order to thwart the proceedings of Government, would come down night after night, and rise in opposition to every stage of every Bill, and every matter of business, which might be moved after twelve o'clock? If the hon. Member for Salford were desirous of restricting the sittings of the House to twelve o'clock, let him submit a proposition to that effect fairly to the consideration of the House, and not attempt to accomplish it by so clumsy an expedient as the present.
 Mr. Grote  readily gave the noble Lord credit for the candour he had displayed in his speech, although he was sorry he could not award him any higher commendation. He complained that the noble Lord, both last night, and in the speech he had just delivered, had treated the question of the ballot with the greatest injustice, regarding it as identified with, and inseparable from, the two other questions of an extension of the suffrage, and the repeal of the Septennial Act. He with many other hon. Members, was favourable to the adoption of the two latter measures of reform, but he maintained they had no necessary connexion with the ballot. Each question should stand or fall on its own merits. He had given notice for a future day, of a motion on the subject of the ballot, and he would then introduce it, as he always had done, on its own merits, and unconnected with the extension of the suffrage, or any other matter. At the same time, he would give to those questions his cordial support. He hoped that when the noble Lord opposed his motion he would be prepared with arguments against that motion, and not seek to derive an unfair advantage by dragging in any other proposition. If such arguments as were now used by the noble Lord had been allowed to prevail on a former occasion, the Reform Bill itself would never have passed. He felt deeply sorry for the declamations the noble Lord had made on that and the preceding night—they would diffuse sadness through the bosoms of all Reformers. The hopes which they entertained of his Lordship's Government would be destroyed by that declaration. They all remembered the celebrated declaration of the Duke of Wellington against the Reform Bill; but he (Mr. Grote) believed that the declaration of the noble Lord would produce a greater and much more painful sensation. He had good grounds for believing that the noble Lord had mistaken public feeling if he thought it would bear him out in thus refusing to the holders of the suffrage, the protection to which they were entitled.
 Mr. Goulburn  regretted that there was no Member of the Government present to deliver any opinion on the subject which the hon. Member for Salford had brought under consideration. It was, however, a matter in which every Member of that House was interested; and for his own part he had no hesitation in saying that, instead of adopting the proposition of the hon. Member for Salford, he would prefer adhering to old rules and long practice. But what was the alteration which the motion of the bon. Gentleman proposed? Why, that any Member of that House should be at liberty to rise to order, and then not to speak to order, but to make a motion for the postponement of another question. This, he must say, was directly the contrary of that which had always been the practice of that House. If such a proposition were adopted all he could say was, that the fair discussion of every question might at any time be prevented. No doubt the hon. Member for Salford in bringing forward his motion had the health of the Members in view; but, instead of attempting to make new rules, he thought it would be far better to leave the matter as it stood, and trust wholly to the feeling and good sense of the House. They must all be aware, at least all those who had any experience in Parliament must know, that there were periods of the session when it was indispensable that much of the public business should be transacted after twelve o'clock. Unless this could be done, it was obvious that many important matters must stand still from week to week, to the great inconvenience of the parties concerned, if not to the public service; and yet, with this fact before them, they were called upon to concur in a motion by which, if any one Member wishing for the postponement of a given subject was supported by four other hon. Members, the Speaker would be compelled to declare the question adjourned to a future day. He certainly was averse to the motion, and therefore, hoped the hon. Member for Salford would consent to withdraw it.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that many of the most important debates in that House
 129
 The Speaker  called the hon. Member to order. There was no question before the House.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. Baronet must be aware that this was a matter in which the House of Commons had no
 123
 Mr. Leader  said: Before the Report is adopted, I have a few observations to make on one part of the Address. I abstained from introducing the subject last night, as it would have interfered with the tenour of the debate which then took place. But the very debate of last night has rendered some mention of the subject more necessary than before. By means of the declaration, hostile to further reform in the representative system, made last night by the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, the last hope of obtaining really popular measures from the present Go-
 92 93 94 95 ex officio 96 97 The Vindicator 98
 Mr. Brotherton  believed it would be generally admitted that it would be very salutary both for the health of the Members themselves, and for the efficient discharge of the public business, that some limit should be put to the hours at night, or rather morning, to which the debates of this House should be protracted. He believed there was no other country in the world, whether in Europe or in America, which transacted the business of the public at night. Even in this country it was the practice formerly to meet as early as eight o'clock in the morning and he found an order on the journals declaring that the House should not continue to sit after six in the evening. The object of the motion which he was now about to propose was, that the House should not on general occasions sit much after twelve o'clock at night. To effect this he proposed that when any new motion was brought forward after twelve o'clock, if any five Members were to rise
 126
 Mr. Brotherton  replied. His motion was framed with the view of preventing business of importance only from being discussed after twelve o'clock. He was really surprised that the Members of that House should be paid so bad a compliment as to suppose that any five of them
 131
 Mr. Hume  said, it was far from desirable that any alteration should be suffered in
 120
 Mr. Pease  said, that his Parliamentary experience convinced him that the pro-
 128
 Mr. Borthwick  wished to call the attention of the House to the paragraph in the Speech from the Throne in which it was said that the engagements of this country with Spain, according to the stipulations of the Quadruple Alliance, were
 110 Interruption. 111 de facto de jure, 112 113
 Mr. Potter  suggested, that the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Salford, contained an exception which would prevent the possibility of inconvenience arising from it.
 Mr. R. Steuart  said, that although the motion excepted particular cases, the hon. Member had omitted to state what were the particular cases in which the rule was to be omitted. Again, as the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder for Dublin, had said, there might be five Members who might wish to arrest the business, and what was to prevent them from rising upon each order of the day to move an adjournment upon each order of the day? Thus bills, which were waiting for a third reading, and which had not been opposed in their former stages, might lay over from week to week to the serious inconvenience of the public service. There were many objections which, he hoped, would induce the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his motion, even if he were to renew it.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that in his opinion the hon. Member for Salford proposed to extend their sittings five hours too late. They should adjourn at seven instead of twelve: and they ought to begin business at an earlier hour of the day to enable them to do so. In ancient times eight o'clock in the morning used to be the hour of meeting. This was the case two hundred years ago—quite a modern date for Gentlemen who were enamoured of ancient institutions. He should be glad to have the opinion of the Speaker, after his long experience of the course of nocturnal depredations carried on here on the pockets of the people, whether so injurious a system should not be altered The fact unfortunately was, that out of the 658 Members of which this House was composed there were some 400 or 500 loungers, who just looked in late at night to see what was going on, and then went back to their friends or their clubs. This was not working faithfully for their constituents, whilst those who did their duty to their constituents by regular and constant attendance were injuring their own health by their protracted sittings, and after all not doing the business of the country so well as if they met earlier and went away sooner. What was to prevent them from meeting at ten o'clock in the day? It might be said that there were many Gentlemen in the House whose professional avocations would not allow them to come at that hour. Then he would say, that such men had no business to be Members of Parliament. The representatives of the people should not come here to do the public business when they were worn out by their own private business of the day or excited by the convivialities of the evening. He had seen many hon. Members come in at eleven o'clock, and he grieved to say it, excited to a considerable degree in this manner, and then immediately proceed to give vent to their impatience by all sorts of disagreeable noises, as laughing, hissing, groaning, and so forth; and this was really what was no longer to be tolerated in a place of this kind. He really hoped that something would be done before long to remedy this notorious and growing evil.
 Mr. Wakley  was glad the subject had been noticed, as he thought the arrangements in both Houses were very different. He did not see why any difference should exist in the nature of the accommodation afforded by one House to the other. If Members of this House went to the House of Lords to gratify their curiosity, no seat was provided for them, they were under the necessity of standing at the bar, and frequently the number of strangers were so great that the Members of this House had no opportunity of seeing or hearing. Again if they took bills to the other House eight members must go and present them, whereas, if they came from the other House, they were sent by a messenger. This was done, not from any old custom, but in conformity with the written rules of the other House. Again, in conferences—
 Mr. Wakley  thought the House, in fairness to the hon. and gallant Member, ought to permit this Bill to be placed on their table in order to its being fully discussed.
 Captain Pechell  said he had now a motion to make which his sense of duty would not permit him, even in deference to the high authority of the Attorney-General, to withdraw, should he dissent from the motion. The Bill, of which he had given notice last night, was a Bill for the protection of innkeepers and licensed victuallers from their present liability to make good all losses of property of travellers or lodgers virtually in the custody of such innkeepers by the existing law. He should, however, make an exception in all cases in which the property of the lodger or traveller was actually given for safe custody into the hands of the landlord, or his authorised servant. He moved for leave to bring in the Bill.
 The Attorney-General  said, he had a strong indisposition to interpose, in this instance, his opinion, as it was averse to the proposed alteration, lest the hon. and gallant Member should imagine he was jealous of any of those attempts made by others to accomplish reforms in our laws. But he assured him he participated in no such feeling, he saw no reason for making the alteration, for, as the law stood now, no inmate of an inn could maintain a claim against the licensed victualler or hotel-keeper for property which had never been on the premises, which be it observed, was the primary objection stated by the hon. and gallant Officer to the continuance of the landlord's present liability; because, in point of fact, the claimant must give evidence that the property had been in the legal safe-keeping of the innkeeper, or on the premises, before he could maintain an action for its recovery; and finally the whole of such evidence, with the cross examination of witnesses supposed to be interested, must of course be submitted to the jury before a verdict would be pronounced for or against the claim.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  wished to call the attention of the House to the want of accommodation for the Members of the House of Commons in the House of Lords. He was ready to admit that the presence of the Members of that House in the other House was a matter of permission, not of right, but having had that permission for some time, and having lately met with great difficulties and inconveniences in going into the other House, he wished, if possible, to remedy the evil. It would be recollected, that in the former House of Lords, the Members of this House were accommodated both behind the throne, and below the bar of the House. The accommodation near the throne was taken away, but that he did not complain of; what he complained of was that which happened to himself and others who might have a wish to go into the House of Lords, that they could neither get within sight or hearing of their Lordships, the space at the bar being constantly filled by strangers, chiefly parliamentary agents. This House did every thing in its power to accommodate the House of Lords, and that House ought in return to do something to prevent the inconveniences which Members of this House experienced when they went to the other House. He had a motion on the order-book on this subject, but it was suggested to him that some means might occur to the Speaker by which a communication might be made to the other house which would render the motion unnecessary. If such communication were made and not attended to, he would certainly make a motion by which he would endeavour to put the two Houses on an equal footing as to convenience; and if the other House refused to afford convenience, he would use his privilege as a Member of this House to object to convenience being afforded to the members of the other House. He would ask the Speaker whether he thought the subject could be settled without making any specific motion.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the difficulty of the hon. and gallant Officer's Bill would be in fixing the amount for which the victualler should be liable. He did not see why a special contract should not be made in the case of the victualler as of the carrier.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that the House must be aware that they stood in rather a peculiar situation, inasmuch as they had turned the House of Lords out of the House in which they used to assemble. They should recollect that the present House of Lords was a much smaller House, and the question really was, whether the House of Lords had it in their power to afford other accommodation than that now afforded. If they had the means, he had not the least doubt but that they had the wish to do so.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  objected to altering the liability under which licensed victuallers were placed by the law of England in respect to the property of travellers lodged and entertained in such houses.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, he did not rise to urge any objection to the introduction of the Bill, but he deprecated applying the proposed system to any of the petitions already presented. He hoped the House would not, without the greatest deliberation, pledge itself to this or any other scheme.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  felt the strongest
 130
 Viscount Sandon  said, that it was desirable that the Bill should be so modified that the landlord should not be liable beyond a certain amount, unless there existed a special contract between the parties.
 Lord Stanley  said, seeing the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department in his place, I trust that I may be permitted to ask a question of considerable importance, to which hope to receive a decided and positive answer. At the opening of the Session the noble Lord announced that it was the intention of the Government nominally to fix all Election Petitions to be taken into consideration on the 12th of December, upon the understanding, however, that they should be postponed till after the holidays; and although that side of the House had objections to their postponement, yet considering the short time for which that postponement was to take place, and the inconvenience that might result in consequence of the short period that would take place between the hearing of the first petition and the adjournment of the House for the Christmas vacation, it was thought desirable on all hands that the arrangement should be carried into effect. But within the last few days it had been rather ostentatiously announced that the noble Lord would be forced, by a considerable body of his supporters, to depart from that arrangement, and not to take election petitions into consideration until after the passing of an expected measure, by which an alteration would be made in the tribunal before which their merits are tried. Now, I can say for myself, and for many hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House, that if we had had the least idea that the noble Lord would be induced to accede to any such proposition, no consideration on earth could have induced us to acquiesce in his arrangement, or admit of the delay for a single hour. I therefore ask the noble Lord, and I hope the noble Lord will give a distinct answer to the question, first, as to whether it is his intention to proceed in the regular course with the election petitions immediately after the Christmas holidays? and, secondly, whether it is his intention to apply the provisions of any bill that may be introduced this Session to the petitions arising out of the late election.
 An hon. Member  inquired whether the inquiry would extend to the royal household?
 Mr. Harvey  said, that whilst he had no desire to be understood as relaxing in any degree the impression that he had overweening confidence in the Government, still he must say, that he had a sincere confidence in the purity of the right hon. Gentleman's present intention, and he hoped that the enquiry would be carried out as efficiently, as sincerely, and as certainly, as he wished it to be. Under the circumstances he would withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. Harvey  said, he could not conceal from himself the peculiar difficulty in which he was placed by the observations that had been made by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; because, while on the one hand he should be delighted to accede to any arrangement calculated to effect so desirable an object, he, at the same time, felt that a great personal responsibility rested on himself, in consequence of the part he had taken in past times on this interesting subject. He was apprehensive that, in the excessive eagerness of the Government, from a delicate feeling towards their illustrious Mistress to pass the civil list as speedily as possible, the object he contemplated might elude his grasp. He could not forget the successive difficulties which gradually ac-
 162 163 l. l. l. 164 l. l. 165 l. l. 166 l. l. l. 167 l. l. 168 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 169 170 171 l., l. 172 173 l. l. 174 175 176 d. d. s. s., d. 177 178
 Mr. Harvey  begged the House to excuse his anxiety to know if he rightly understood what had been said. Did he understand the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that, though he considered it inconvenient to incorporate this inquiry with the Committee for which he moved, yet that he would have a Committee having for its object the resolution he had just read? Was he, then, in the first place, to understand that there would be no money voted in reference to these pensions until the inquiry was made and the result known. He was sure that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not suppose that he imputed to that right hon. Gentleman anything like a desire to avoid the object of that resolution, but that he would appreciate his anxiety to understand the right hon. Gentleman. He wished to see everything done sincerely and correctly. Was he to understand that they would have a report from the Committee, and that the money should not be voted until all those pensions had been examined in the spirit both of liberality and of vigour which was intended?
 Mr. Harvey  handed a paper to the right hon. Gentleman, observing that it contained the terms of his motion as he proposed to make it.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the House must be aware that, up to the commencement of the late reign, it had been the practice of the Minister of the Crown to present to the whole House, without the intervention of a Committee, the sum which they thought it fit for the House to grant in return for the hereditary revenues of the Crown. On the occasion of the accession of William 4th, it was known that that practice had been departed from, and departed from more with the view to a particular political object, than with any regard to the settlement of the civil list on terms either advantageous to the Crown or convenient to the country. As a Select Committee had been appointed on that occasion, a precedent had been established, from which precedent, whatever might be his own private opinion, he did not think it necessary to call upon the House, on the present occasion, to depart. It was, therefore, not his intention to offer any opposition to the appointment of the Committee, or to enter into a discussion upon the principle involved in it. But there were one or two topics in the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, from which he was led to believe that the right hon. Gentleman had not dealt with the case in the spirit of fairness which he should have expected. As he had had the good fortune to be in the service of
 182 l., l. l. l. l. 183 jure coronœ 184 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 185
 The Speaker  said, he had to acquaint the House that the House had yesterday attended her Majesty with the address, and that her Majesty had been pleased to deliver the following gracious answer from the Throne:—
 Mr. Bateman  said, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will answer me one question. I wish to know, whether one Thomas Moore is on the pension-list or not? and if he be, whether his pension were granted to him for making ballads for lovesick maidens, or for slandering George the 4th.
 Mr. Hume  was afraid his hon. Friend had misunderstood what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If his hon. Friend had understood the purport of the right hon. Gentleman's speech he was sure he would not press his amendment. The very object of his hon. Friend's amendment was met by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would satisfy his hon. Friend by repeating his declaration.
 Mr. Blakemore : Does that include the period of the regency?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Certainly. There was also a further sum received and applicable from these droits
 144 l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 In 1769 £513,500 
 1777 608,300 
 1784 60,000 
 1786 210,000 
 1802 990,000 
 1804 590,000 
 1805 10,400 
 1814 218,800 
 1816 185,000 
 £3,398,000 145 l., l. 146 l. l. l. l., l. l. 147 l. l. l. l. l. l. 148 Loud laughter l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 149 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 150 151 152 Hume: 153 l. l. l., l. 154 155
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then said, while I most earnestly solicit the attention of the House to the statement I am about to make, I must also say, that although I never felt more conscious of my own imperfect ability to propose so important a question to the House, yet, however imperfect may be the mode in which I make my statement, I never felt a greater confidence than at present that the motion itself will be favourably received. I may rely, I am convinced, on the support of all parties in the House in consideration of the subject I bring under its attention, because, however strongly opposed on political subjects, I am convinced that there is but one feeling in the House as to the duty and the necessity of making adequate provision for the honour and dignity of the Crown—but one anxiety on the part of all classes to do all that is just and right towards our young and gracious Queen. Therefore, whatever may be the imperfections in my mode of explaining the proposition I am now about to make—whatever there may be in my arguments open to objection—yet,
 138 139 140 l., 141 l. l., l. l., l., l. 142 
 
 Civil List £510,000 
 Charges on the Consolidated Fund 438,550 
 Supplies 128,065 
 Land Revenue 13,032 
 4½ per cent duties 6,347 
 Total 1,095,994 
 Saving £100,213 l., l. 143 l. 
 
 Droits of the Admiralty £9,562,000 
 4½ per cent. Duties 2,116,000 
 Gibraltar 124,000 
 Surplus Scotch Civil List 207,000 
 Escheats from Subjects 214,000 
 Escheats from Aliens 108,000 
 Sale of Lands, French West India Islands 106,000 
 Revenues of Minorca, Martinique, &c. &c. 150,000 
 Quit Rents in Colonies 104,000 
 
 Navy £900,000 
 Ordnance 100,000 
 To the Annual Supplies of the Year 700,000 
 To the Consolidated Fund 900,000 
 Total £2,600,000 l. l. l. l. l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : I think, Sir, that the hon. Gentleman might have made a further inquiry, which is, whether the pension to which he refers was given as a reward of great and distinguished talents. I believe that the hon. Gentleman has the honour of belonging to the same country as myself, and I should have hoped that there was no Irishman, however he might differ from the political opinions of Mr. Thomas Moore, who would not have felt that that Gentleman was a credit to the country which gave him birth, and that the name of "one Thomas Moore" was a credit to the pension list. Perhaps the hon. Member will also ask, whether it was for writing his early works, of a very democratic character, that the name of Robert Southey appears on the pension list. I believe, that both gentlemen received their pensions on the same grounds; and I rejoice as heartily at the grant to Mr. Robert Southey as I do at that to Mr. Thomas Moore. They are both individuals of great and distinguished talent; they have both contributed largely to the literary pleasures of the country; and I rejoice that one and the other, whatever their political opinions, have received from opposite Governments the rewards to which they are so justly entitled.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  continued: Before I read the motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, I must say I do not think that the course he pursues will be considered quite a convenient one by the House. I do not complain of his conduct, but I must tell him that I came down prepared to argue his notice of motion, and now I am told that another is to be substituted for it as an amendment. The notice which the hon. Member gave, and which now stands on the printed orders, is a distinct proposition. Now there is to be another question, of which I have no pre-
 156 157 158 159 160 161
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt bound to apologise to the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Southwark, for the inconvenience he had been subjected to in consequent of his lost paper. In reply to the observation of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he begged again to appeal to the unqualified manner in which the words of his motion conveyed the intention of her Majesty's Government when they moved for a Committee to carry into full and entire effect the object comprehended in the notice which he held in his hand. He believed that, with one exception his notice corresponded with the wishes of the hon. Member for Southwark. He believed that that hon. Member wished to add sinecures. [Mr.  Harvey: 179
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the explanations, he had already given were so clear that no person, unless one who was rather disposed to look at everything proceeding from the Treasury bench with suspicion, could possibly misunderstand him. The hon. Member for Southwark seemed to suspect that his object was to delude the House of Commons in this inquiry, and in the mean time to obtain a confirmation of these pensions, so as to prevent the inquiry from being turned to any practical purpose. He would take for instance, a separate pension in the civil list. Suppose the inquiry should lead to the result that it was reported inexpedient to continue this pension, and that pending the inquiry Government had by other proceedings, taken steps to have this pension granted, and the House of Commons was thus deprived of power and control over such pension, then he would say, that the inquiry would be an utter delusion. The intention was, that these pensions should not be appropriated pending the inquiry. He drew this distinction in order that no difficulties might be thrown in the way of the settlement of the civil list, as that settle-
 180
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as to the public being benefited to the amount stated by the arrangements entered into, he did not believe one word of it. Indeed, he believed, that the hon. Baronet was peculiar in his opinion on the point. If the hon. Baronet carried his principle to the full extent it would go to this, that James 2nd, who had a revenue of 2,400,000 l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he would lay all the information in his power before the Committee, but he could not consent to an inquiry into the wages of the menial servants of the royal household.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was unwilling that the House should proceed to nominate the Committee without his adding a few words to what the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer both did and did not say. He had not heard the right hon. Gentleman, in the course of his observations, state to the House a single word as to the fact, that her Majesty was giving up a very large annual sum to the country, larger than it received. The right hon. Baronet alluded to several former returns which had been made to the House on the subject of the Crown revenues, according to one of which the country appeared to be considerably the gainer; and also referred to several successive reductions which the civil lists for many years past had undergone, by which there had been a gain to the public of upwards of twenty millions of money. With respect to the pension list, there were many persons upon it whose pensions were Parliamentary pensions, and he thought it was not for a Minister of the Crown to deprive the Crown of the right of making whatever distribution it pleased of its own income, especially in those cases in which the pensions had been sanctioned by Parliament. The total amount of all the pensions of the country was but a trifling part of the national expenditure, and scarcely bore the fractional proportion of one halfpenny to the great revenues of the king-
 181
 Mr. O'Brien  said, that his attention had been directed to the point of the prac-
 197
 Lord Stanley  did not think that it was the duty of her Majesty's Ministers to see that Members attended on those days when there was no Government business before the House. Undoubtedly it was their duty to take care that there was a sufficient attendance to enable them to proceed with the Government measures, but surely they could not enforce an attendance on motion days. It appeared from the report on the table, that the House was generally counted out on notice of motion days, and this was the necessary result of hon. Gentlemen bringing forward motions on matters about which no human being cared. He found that on one occasion the House was counted out when there were not less than twenty notices on the paper, and on another occasion not less than thirty-two. Now, supposing only eight Members attended in addition to the thirty-two who had given these notices, there would have been a House; but the fact was, that most of the notices were a mass of trash and rubbish to which no one thought it worth while to attend, except the Member who gave the notice. The Government could not have succeeded if they had attempted—and they certainly would not have done their duty had they done so—to enforce the attendance of Members to listen to such matters. He thought that the plan involved in the resolutions of his noble Friend was an imperfect remedy for a palpable and increasing evil, but still it was doing something, and he was anxious that the plan should be tried. At any rate the adoption of the resolutions would facilitate to a certain extent, the transaction of the business of the country, and thus, at least, some good would be done. He was glad to see that there appeared to be a general disposition in the House to adopt the resolutions, but they would not afford a remedy by an acknowledged act unless the feeling of the House went with them.
 Lord Stanley , having put a question to the noble Lord in the course of the evening in connection with this subject, rose to say, that he had heard with some satisfaction, one portion of the announcement made by the noble Lord, namely, that it was his intention to proceed to the consideration of the election petitions immediately after the re-assembling of the House. Let the House recollect that they had a distinct promise on the part of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that unless he could bring forward some strong grounds for deviating from the usual course, it was his intention to move an adjournment till an early day in February, and that the petitions should be proceeded with on the first Tuesday or Thursday after the meeting of Parliament. He did not object, if the noble Lord thought fit to adopt that course, to the naming of the precise day being deferred, now that he had received that intimation from the noble Lord which assured him that he would secure the great object he had in view last night. But when the noble Lord told them that he could not anticipate the House would sanction so long an adjournment as to the month of February, he surely overlooked the precedents which occurred in 1812. Parliament met on the 24th of November in that year, and on the 1st of December this motion was made and carried—"Resolved, that this House will not enter on the trial of any election petitions previous to the Christmas recess." This was so far precisely the course of the noble Lord; but did the House feel any difficulty at that time in fixing the day? No such thing; for the four petitions were fixed, two for the 9th of February, and two for the 11th of February. That, he begged it to be understood, was the earliest time after the Christmas recess that could be fixed, Parliament not meeting till Febru-
 207
 Lord John Russell  said, his object, in the first place, was to take care that the parties had the due and requisite notice; and in the second place, he wished to avoid doing that which he thought he was not justified in doing, viz., fixing the period of the adjournment of the House. But as, in his opinion, there was no objection whatever to the course which the right hon. Baronet proposed, he would be ready on some future day, say the 6th of December, to move the day on which the trial of the petitions should actually be proceeded with. With regard to what had fallen from the noble Lord, he did not think that there were any of his observations of to-night that were contrary to what he had stated last night in answer to the noble Lord. He could not say whether extraordinary circumstances would not induce him to deviate from the usual plan; that was what he wished to communicate to the House, and the noble Lord was mistaken if he supposed that what he had said to-night was in any way inconsistent with what he had stated yesterday.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that if this course were pursued it might prevent the progress of the most important Bills. For instance, it was essential that the Mutiny Act should be passed by a certain day and by bringing forward motions or amendments to the order of the day its progress might be impeded, or perhaps altogether slopped.
 Lord John Russell  had already stated to the House his intention of that day proposing the Adjournment of Election Petitions till after the holidays. He made this proposal on grounds of public convenience, which of themselves were so obvious as to render it unnecessary for him to explain them at any length. The day on which the first election petition was fixed was the 12th of December, but that day approached very near to the Christmas recess, a period at which it would be very difficult indeed to get Members of the House to attend election ballots. There would not at that time be many questions of interest before the House, and hon. Gentlemen might very probably be not over anxious to get themselves placed on Election Committees, which would oblige them, by law, to remain here during the Christmas holidays. It appeared, therefore, that Parliament having assembled so short a time before the Christmas recess, it would not be expedient to take any election petitions till after the holidays. It was his intention when the House adjourned for that recess to move that it adjourn to the 1st February in the ensuing year; and he should have at once proposed that the first election petition should be adjourned till that day, which he believed to be a Thursday, had he not conceived, that in point of form it would not be proper to anticipate that the House would make an adjournment for so long a period without the sense of the House being taken on the subject. He, therefore, thought himself bound, in point of form, to fix the first election petition for an earlier day than the 1st of February, in order to meet the possible case that any unforeseen contingency should induce the House to make a shorter adjournment, say for only a fortnight. In either case, he considered that the election petitions should come on immediately after the re-assembling of the House. He did not, however, look upon the latter event as probable; and in case the House did adjourn till the 1st of February, he should
 205
 Lord John Russell  said, that in answer to the question he might say, that the report with regard to Glasgow had been received and would be immediately laid on the table of the House. The report respecting Leith was also in a state of forwardness,
 193
 Lord John Russell  should now proceed to call the attention of the House to the report of the Committee with respect to the public business of the House. He would not enter into general matters with respect to the business, for he was of opinion that it was a subject which required much further consideration, and he should, therefore, propose the re-appointment of the Committee, but he intended now to point out such suggestions as had been thrown out by the former Committee, which might be of service. There was no Member of the House, he believed, who would not agree with him, that both in the transaction of public business and in the conversations which took place in the House, it was of importance that the affairs should be conducted with method and order, rather than that they should have desultory discussions on subjects of a nature different from those of which notice had been given, and which tended to confuse and disarrange the proceedings. It was felt much during the last session that the days for the transaction of the business on orders of the day were frequently occupied in the discussion of notices, and on the other hand, that orders were frequently taken on those days which should have been devoted to the consideration of notices; but it also frequently happened, that on both days the House did not meet or was counted out. The Committee, in their report, said that there were many days thus misemployed there were eighty-five sitting days in the session, out of which thirty-three had been Mondays and Fridays, which had been devoted to orders of the day, thirty-four were Tuesdays and Thursdays, which should have been employed on notices, and eighteen of Wednesdays. With respect to the thirty-three days on which Government measures and orders should have been brought forward, the House had once been counted out, and once had not been formed, and twelve days had been devoted to the consideration of notices, so that of the thirty-three days nineteen only had been employed in the transaction of the proper business. Of the thirty-four notice days six had been occupied by adjourned debates which, of course, depended upon the House itself, on three the regular business was
 194 195 196 "That in the present Session of Parliament all Orders of the Day set down in the Order-book for Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, shall be disposed of before the House will proceed upon any motions of which notices shall be entered in the Order-book. "That upon days appropriated to Orders, and a question being put from the Chair that any Order of the Day be read, no amendment shall be proposed, except that the other Orders of the Day, or that any Order set down for the same day, be now read; but that this regulation shall not apply to the case of a Committee of Supply, or of a Committee of Ways and Means. "That no Notice shall hereafter be given beyond the period which shall include the four days next following on which Notices are entitled to precedence, due allowance being made for any intervening adjournment of the House, and the period being in that case so far extended as to include four Notice days falling during the sitting of the House. "That with the exception of Notices already given, it shall not be permitted to any Member to fix any day for a Notice given by him beyond the term of fifteen days from the lime of giving such Notice."
 Mr. Pringle , seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department in his place, would take this opportunity of asking what progress the Church Commission in Scotland had made, and whether it was probable that their reports would soon be laid on the table?
 Mr. Hindley  wished to know, whether
 200
 Mr. Hindley  thought, that the hasty adoption of these resolutions would interfere with the rights of independent Members; he should, therefore, if no other hon. Gentleman did so, propose that the debate be adjourned until Thursday next.
 Sir E. Sugden  suggested, that in case an hon. Member was prevented bringing forward a notice of motion in consequence of an adjourned debate, that the Member should have precedence on the next motion day.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that the noble Lord had not had his resolutions printed and circulated with the votes. By this means ample time would have been given for the consideration of the subject. He begged to move that the debate be adjourned to Tuesday next.
 Mr. Hume  had observed much more confusion during the last two or three Sessions in conducting the business of the House than ever before, and he could not but think that this was in some measure produced by the want of attention to the business of the House of those whose duty it was considered to be; although undoubtedly the duly was not confined to them, but extended to all the other Members of the House, to be in attendance on the House, and by their presence to prevent the House from being counted out. It was always believed to be the duty of the Government to lend its aid in making a House; and formerly it was understood that they did so; and if this practice were continued, he had no hesitation in saying that the business of the House would be better conducted.
 Mr. Wakley  suggested, that the consideration of it should be postponed. He thought that it was a great advantage that Members had an opportunity of bringing forward motions as amendments to the orders of the day. This was the old constitutional system, by which it was declared necessary that a remedy should be applied to abuses before supply was granted. He hoped that the resolutions would not be hurried through the House, but that the further consideration of them should be postponed until Tuesday or Thursday.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he would recommend an alteration in the resolution, to the effect, that no Member should give notice of a motion extending beyond four of the days usually appropriated to motions, or, at least, on which they had priority; namely, two Tuesdays and two Thursdays.
 Sir Robert Peel  had no objection, in point of fairness, to the proposition of the noble Lord, but he thought he could suggest a course more in conformity with what had taken place on all former occasions. The noble Lord had proposed to fix a day for the consideration of the first election petition, when it was perfectly notorious that election petitions could not be taken on that day. He knew of no precedent for such a course being taken; he had never heard of an instance of the House naming two different days for the consideration of election petitions, when it was notorious that, on neither of those days could petitions be taken. The law required, that the Speaker should give notice to the parties respectively concerned in election petitions as to when the day for each petition was fixed, yet it was now proposed to adopt a course which, while it was understood only by the House, could only have the tendency of confusing the parties. According to the arrangement at present understood, it was the Speaker's duty to notify to the parties concerned in election petitions, that the day fixed for taking petitions was the 12th of December. Now it was proposed to make the l6th of January the day for taking petitions, although the House was given clearly to understand that on that day petitions would not be taken, and yet it would be the Speaker's duty to give notice to all parties that on that day they would be heard. This would be not only an entire departure from the course which had hitherto uniformly prevailed, but it would be making the whole affair little better than a mere mockery. Would it not answer all the purposes of substantial justice if the noble Lord were to postpone naming the definitive day on which the first petition would be taken until the duration of the recess had been determined on? The noble Lord might take any day before the 12th of December for making this announcement, and such a course would at once obviate the manifest inconvenience and absurdity of giving to parties a public notification that their
 206
 Sir R. Peel  said, the debate he understood to be postponed then till the 6th of December. The object of his rising at present was to give notice that if, on the 7th of December, any doubt arose as to a day being fixed in February for the hear-
 208
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the resolution which had been moved contemplated two objects, one of which was to restore the practice of the House to appropriate Wednesday and Friday to the consideration of Bills, and of the public business of the House conducted by her Majesty's Government. It did not appear to him an unreasonable proposition to preserve two days, Monday and Friday, to what was properly called public business, as the votes of supply were usually taken on those days, and if those days throughout the Session were appropriated to that purpose, it would not be more than was necessary. In naming Monday, Wednesday, and Friday as the days on which the orders should have precedence, it was meant that nothing but business of that description should be taken on those days, and he thought that there could be no question of the propriety of enforcing, by a new regulation, that which was already the practice of the House. Then there was a second point, as to no more than fifteen days' notice of motion being allowed. He had no objection, as a Member of the House, that this proposition should be adopted, although, as one of the Committee, he had felt some difficulty in recommending it, and he trusted that his prediction that it would be unsuccessful might prove to be without foundation on the plan being brought into operation; but it did appear to him that without some other corresponding regulations they would be only defeating the new proposition. The fifteen days would generally embrace four notice days; for instance, the notice being given on a Friday, the Member by whom it was given would have the option of selecting the Tuesdays and Fridays in the two following weeks. Then, supposing that there was a great appetite for legislation, and a strong desire among hon. Members to be distinguished as the introducers of new laws—and, indeed, it was in the anticipation of the appetite increasing that the new regulation was proposed—the inconvenience would still exist, for four days only were allowed in which the motion could be brought forward. Then, on Fri-
 198 199
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, as the general disposition appeared to be that they should not proceed with the trial of the election petitions till after Christmas, he would not urge on the House the necessity for taking them earlier; but at the same time he must enter his protest against the delay.
 Lord Stanley  could assure the hon. Gentleman that it was with no hostility to the object he had in view, or to the mode in which he proposed to effect it, that he rose to suggest to him, after the course which had been taken by the House, the absolute necessity of postponing the second reading of this Bill. The House would recollect that, on the same day on which he obtained leave to introduce a Bill for the correction of the law respecting controverted elections, another hon. Gentleman (the Member for Dublin) also had permission granted him to bring in a Bill having precisely the same object, but proposing to obtain it by a course as different as possible from that of the hon. Member for Liskeard. Before going further into the question, he would put it to the hon. Member for Liskeard whether this circumstance was not in itself sufficient to induce him to postpone the second reading of his Bill? If the hon. Member persisted, he should deem it his duty to make a few further remarks on the subject.
 Mr. C. Buller  intimated his intention of proceeding with the Bill.
 Lord Stanley , under such circumstances, felt bound to address to the House some further observations on the subject. He had just pointed out to the recollection of the House, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had obtained leave to bring in a Bill similar in its object with that of the hon. Member for Liskeard, but distinctly different in its mode of procedure. Such being the state of things, it was obvious that the House, before it came to the consideration of either of these measures, must be desirous of having both placed clearly before them, in order to see which of them was the best, in order to judge which of them should be accepted, or whether both should be rejected. The adoption of both was of course out of the question. The hon. Member for Liskeard was, therefore, most unreasonable when he insisted on the House adopting his plan in preference to the other which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had permission
 285 286 287 288
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, that he was always ready to accede to the declared wish of the House, or even to that of a large portion of the House; but he did not perceive that the noble Lord had adduced any sufficient reason, on the mere point of time, to impress upon the House a conviction that the 12th of February would be a better day for the second reading of the Bill than the present occasion. It appeared to him most desirable, that the principles of the Bill should be discussed as speedily as possible; for, although the Bill might not come into operation till the end of the Session, yet it was highly important that at the earliest possible period the public should have a guarantee that a system was not to be longer pursued which had been clearly proved to be dishonourable to the House and obstructive to justice. The noble Lord had put his amendment on the ground that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had leave to introduce a Bill with a peculiar object, which the House was entitled to have, in a detailed shape on the table, before they decided as to either. All he (Mr. Buller) could say in reply, was, that if the noble Lord, who was, doubtless, well acquainted with the intentions of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, or if any other hon. Member would take upon himself to guarantee to the House that the Bill of that hon. and learned Gentleman was forthcoming now, or would be forthcoming within a reasonable time, or that in fact the hon. and learned Gentleman meant that it should be forthcoming at all, he would acquiesce in the noble Lord's wish, that the present Bill should be postponed. He must, however, require a sufficient guarantee that the hon. and learned Member's Bill was in preparation; but he doubted whether the noble Lord could satisfy the House that one word of the Bill was written, or had been even thought of. He did not, for his own part, believe, nor could any man in his senses for a moment imagine, that there was the slightest intention on the part of the hon. and learned Gentleman of proceeding with the Bill in question. If anybody else, however, believed that the hon. and learned Gentleman's Bill was so far ready, that the House would be able to discuss the two together—if anybody really thought the hon. and learned Member's Bill would be worth a serious discussion—he would assent to wait, and have the two Bills placed together before the House; but he thought it rather too much to ask him to put off a Bill which
 290 291 292
 Mr. Williams Wynn  perfectly concurred with the hon. and learned Gentleman in saying that this ought in no respect to be considered as a question of party, but one in which both sides of the House ought to feel an equal interest. It was surely as much the interest of one side of the House as the other that the tribunal which decided on elections was one entitled
 293 294 295 lex non scripta
 Mr. O' Connell  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had made a mistake when he said there were two Bills before the House: there was but one. It was true he got leave of the House to bring in another, but he would state the course that he had intended to pursue. He proposed to put his Bill upon the table of the House, and to have it printed by the commencement of the recess, so as to be in the hands of hon. Members during that recess. He did not mean to proceed further with it till it had passed through a Committee, and then he would decide whether he would press it on the House or not. He now saw that he interrupted the present Bill by introducing his at all, and having satisfied himself as to that, he should move that the order for leave to him to bring in his Bill be discharged. Let them discuss the Bill before them on its own merits, and not with reference to any other. As the principle of this Bill, and not its details, was under their consideration, he begged to submit to the House whether it were not necessary that something should be done? When the right hon. Gentleman opposite told them on his word and honour he did not believe that the public were so dissatisfied with the Committees of that House—he must admit, though that the hon. Gentleman did not go quite to that extent; that was a little too far, and he had no
 296 297 298 The Law Magazine "The Law Magazine The Morning Chronicle "With regard to the assessors, who by Mr. C. Buller's Bill are to preside and determine points of law without the power of voting, we by no means think, if they could be found and appointed, that the result would correspond with the expectations of the framer of the measure. The opinion of the assessor, however well founded, would have but little weight with men who had made up their minds to forswear themselves from party motives; and we cannot help believing that the rights of petitioners and respondents (if we may so call them) would be even safer in the hands of men bound by their honour to determine fairly and impartially than bound by their oaths. At all events, it is quite clear that oaths have been and are of no avail. To violate honour might have a serious effect upon gentlemen in their intercourse with society; but we see plainly,
 299 The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle The Standard The Morning Chronicle 300
 Sir Edward Sugden  was surprised at the course pursued by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He had given credit to that hon. and learned Member at the moment that he had learned that it was his intention to have introduced a Bill of which he had given notice. Not only had the hon. and learned Gentleman altered the title of his Bill, so that it might proceed with the Bill of the hon. Member for Liskeard, but in so doing the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had declared his opinion that the proposition of the hon. Member for Liskeard could not be adopted. He (Sir E. Sugden) had understood the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in speaking of that Bill, to express himself in as strong, though not uncourteous, terms, as it was possible for one Member to use in speaking of another. It did appear to him, therefore, and he said this without intending any imputation on the hon. and learned Member, that Members on his side had been most unpleasantly taken by surprise in consequence of the course the hon. and learned Member had adopted. He had come down to the House in the belief that they would have an opportunity of discussing the principle of both Bills before they were called on to affirm that of either. The hon. and learned Member said it had been his intention to allow the hon. Member for Liskeard's Bill to go to a Committee before proceeding with his own, but he ought to have known that when the House had given its sanction to the principle of the one Bill, it was utterly impossible that they could allow the other to be brought in at all. When the hon. Member for Liskeard's Bill had reached so advanced a stage of its progress, it would have been most irregular to call on the
 301 302 303 l 304
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that although he concurred generally with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in thinking the present Committee for the trial of contested elections objectionable, he would not have ventured at that moment to obtrude himself on the attention of the House had it not been for one expression that fell from the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. and learned Member, in alluding to the acts of a Committee, which he designated in a manner not to be misunderstood, had stated that the Committee assumed that a voter had not paid his rates because his name was omitted from the rate-book of the district in which he lived, and had also said that that case lost him his election. He would unequivocally declare, if he rightly understood what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member, that he had asserted what was not accordant with the fact. He would not occupy the time of the House by a reference to the acts of that Committee, but he was bound to say, and it was the first opportunity afforded to him of stating it to the hon. Member's face, that the hon. Member had thought fit on many occasions to speak of his conduct at that time in a manner which he would not say the hon. Member would not have dared to do. [ Order, order.
 The Speaker  said, he hoped the strong expression used by the hon. Member would be withdrawn.
 Mr. Young  was sorry if he had used any expression inconsistent with the propriety of debate, and apologised for having done so. The hon. Member had thrown out imputations from which he would not condescend to vindicate himself, but on behalf of that Committee, and not for himself, he declared in the face of the House and the country, that he had never acted with a set of gentlemen more free from party bias than those who composed the committee. He declared on his honour as a gentleman, that throughout the whole of that protracted investigation it was utterly impossible for him, though he had an intimate knowledge of the sentiments of each individual Member, to predict how any of them would vote. If they did not bring to the discharge of their duties a great degree of legal knowledge, the absence of which was reflection on them, still it was most unfair that they should be held up to public odium as having betrayed their trusts. For his
 305
 Mr. O'Connell  in explanation stated, that he had been misunderstood as having said, that one case lost him his election, instead! of one decision, which involved several cases.
 Lord John Russell  felt it necessary to make a few observations upon the present occasion. He owned that there appeared to him to be grounds favourable to the second reading of this Bill. It was the result of the labours of a Committee that had given great attention to the subject; and he observed in the records of the House, as to the labours of that Committee, that on the subjects submitted to them, on which it was to be supposed there had been a great deal of argument, there had been not less than twenty-one divisions in the Committee. These had all taken place upon various points, and each of them the most important as connected with the principles of the Bill. He had read over the names of the Gentlemen who generally appeared upon the one side and upon the other, and to show the House the manner in which these divisions generally took place, he should take the division upon the question for the nomination of the assessors during good behaviour. The names upon the one side were Mr. Hardy and Mr. Pemberton; and upon the other Mr. W. Wynn, Mr. Strutt, Sir Thomas Fremantle, Mr. Grote, Mr. Villiers, and Lord George Somerset. These divisions were not courted by different political parties; but persons of the same political parties were to be found voting against each other. This he thought, looking to the names of the persons, was a proof that they might have been safely intrusted with the preparing of what was a difficult measure. The House had, then, the recommendation of a Select Committee for this Bill; and they were also aware that in the last Parliament it had been read a second time without a division. He said, then, that these were peculiarly favourable grounds for their granting a
 306 307 308 309
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the question was not whether they would consent to any improvement of the present system by which Election Committees were consti-
 310 C. Butter 311 312 ex post facto 313 314 l 315 316 No, no! "No, no!" "No!"
 Viscount Palmerston  must say, that he
 317 318
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that it appeared to him objectionable to read this Bill a second time on the present occasion, and he hoped he should have the votes of many hon. Members on the other side of the House against such hasty legislation. If there was a necessity for a new tribunal, how was it that it did not show itself till now? In 1832 it was not thought necessary to reform the existing tribunal, though the numbers in the House were as three to one. At that time no objection was found to the formation of Election Committees. In 1835, there appeared to exist no necessity for change; indeed the feeling seemed only to commence late in the last Session. It appeared to him that the constitution of the present Parliament afforded anything but a reason for change. In the present Parliament, parties were so fairly divided that there was a much better chance of obtaining a fairly selected Committee. Another reason for not proceeding with the second reading of the Bill was, that it was not intended to come into operation with respect to those elections which had taken place. It could not be intended that this Bill should have a retrospective effect; for he was sure that so atrocious an injustice would never be seriously perpetrated by the House of Commons, or permitted by the country. The sanctioning the second reading of this Bill would be casting discredit on the tribunal before which, at least, all existing election petitions would be tried; and for this reason, if there were no other, he thought the second reading ought to be postponed.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he had a notice of motion on the books, "for a Select Committee to inquire into the administration of the medical department of the parochial unions which have been formed under the provisions of the Poor-law Amendment Act;" but, as he was anxious not to prejudge the inquiry about to be instituted, he would not press the point; he hoped, however, that the noble Lord would instruct the Committee to devote their earliest attention to that very important branch of their inquiry.
 Lord John Russell  said, he could hardly undertake to move such an instruction now. The operation of the system of medical relief to the poor was a subject which must necessarily come under the consideration of the Committee; but, at the same time, he thought that it was a subject so intimately connected with the other features of the case that it could hardly be separated into a distinct subject for inquiry. He would only add, that he should be ready at all times to inquire into any facts connected with the medical department of the Act which the hon. Member or any other Gentleman might be inclined to submit to him; and then, if the hon. Member was not satisfied, he could resort to his original proposition, and move an instruction to the Committee on the subject.
 Mr. Darby  wished to draw the noble Lord's attention to a point connected with the operation of the poor relief upon which great feeling was expressed, particularly in the county of Sussex. There were there, as in all parts of the country, a great number of labourers who had married under the old system of Poor-laws, and had families of children which they were unable to maintain, and it was earnestly desired by them that the board of guardians should have the power to admit some of their children into the house. This was a matter in which he thought it was absolutely necessary something should be done before the Committee terminated its inquiry.
 Colonel Wood  did not precisely see the range to which the noble Lord proposed that the inquiry of the Committee should extend. On the appointment of the Committee last year, the noble Lord stated, that he wished the inquiry to be as wide a one as possible; but, on the present occasion, he saw that the words of the motion
 323
 Mr. Liddell  said, that as considerable objections were felt in the north of England, and in his own neighbourhood in particular, to the introduction of the measure in question into that part of the kingdom, be could not allow the present opportunity to escape without making a few observations upon it. It was against the workhouse system that the objections to which he referred were generally directed in the north; and he was sure that many persons were anxious for the success of the greater portion of the Bill, provided its more obnoxious provisions were got rid of. It was impossible not to see that many parts of the Poor-law Amendment Act were absolutely penal—and although he was willing to give the Commissioners credit for having met and checked the great evil of able-bodied labourers becoming burthens on the public, yet there was sufficient mischief in the measure to allow the people in the north of England to pause before they admitted it into their part of the country. Me was willing to admit that the Bill had, in many places, been carried into effect with much discretion and consideration; but, as one objection to it in the north, he might mention the fact that it would compel persons connected with its execution very constantly to go long distances over a rough and difficult part of the country, which guardians could not be expected to do without some sort of compensation. As to the principle of the Bill, it was much in accordance with the old law as it existed in the northern counties, and he was prepared to show that many of the Unions about to be formed there, particularly in Durham and Northumberland, were not necessary. The hon. Gentleman then quoted from certain returns in his possession connected with the northern districts, from which it appeared that, in the Unions already formed there,
 324
 Mr. Hume  had heard with regret the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, particularly at a time when so much excitement prevailed in the country upon the subject of the Poor-law Amendment Act—and he rose to allude to statements, of the truth of which, in his opinion, the hon. Gentleman ought not to leave the House without being called upon to give some more satisfactory proof. The hon. Gentleman had stated that in the town of Sunderland alone two hundred children had been suddenly deprived of parochial allowance, and that strong and dark rumours were afloat that several had been found dead. Now, he was at a loss to divine what the hon. Gentleman meant, unless he intended to infer that these children had been deserted by their parents. But let him ask the hon. Gentleman whether he, as a magistrate, had made those inquiries into the
 325
 Mr. Liddell  had a paper in his possession relating to the statements he had made, and which had been communicated to him by an individual in whom he placed the most implicit confidence. If he were to name him, which he certainly should not do unless under an order from the Chair, he was convinced there were very many Gentlemen who would come forward and corroborate his statements. With respect to what he had said in connection with the bastardy clauses, the rumours he had referred to had most certainly prevailed, and had appeared in the public papers. With respect to his duty as a magistrate, he must inform the hon. Gentleman that he was not a magistrate of the county of Northumberland, though he was of Durham, or he should most certainly have attended most particularly to the working of those clauses of the Poor-law Act which he regretted had been the cause of so much dissatisfaction.
 Mr. Hume  asked the hon. Gentleman whether he could specify when and where one single case of a child having been found dead had occurred?
 Mr. Liddell  replied, that he could not at that moment specify a particular case—but he could show the hon. Member papers in which the rumours had publicly appeared.
 An hon. Member  stated, that he knew an instance which was by no means a solitary one, of an individual who had himself been a rate-payer for forty years, and who had now arrived at a time of life when, owing to his inability to work, he had nothing to look forward to but parochial relief, and who stated that he contemplated a residence in the workhouse with horror.
 Mr. Goring  regretted, that the Government were not prepared to modify these clauses, as they had the effect of preventing the Bill in many places from being carried into execution. The regulations were dif-
 326
 Mr. Guest  said, that his constituents considered it a very cruel case to separate those who were bound together in the bonds of affection when in distress, and hoped the inquiry would be full and impartial. That he was sure would please the Commissioners too, for they only performed their duty.
 General Johnson  said, that when he considered the power which the manufacturers in the large towns had of turning great numbers of workmen out of employment, and that those persons would have no other places to go to but these prisons of workhouses, he did think that the oppressive orders of the Commissioners would produce the greatest dissatisfaction in the country. He thought that employment, instead of being augmented, was reduced by this measure. [ No, no!
 Sir Harry Verney  said, that the Act had been the most useful and beneficial to which he had ever given his support. The hon. Gentleman opposite might perhaps have lost a few votes through it, but if he had lost twelve elections by it, he would never have refused to speak well of an honest measure—Supported as it had been by so many hon. names on both sides of the House. He perfectly remembered the advice which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth, gave to an hon. Gentleman on that side of the House on a former occasion. The hon. Gentleman had brought in a Bill of which the right hon. Baronet disapproved, and in his observations on that measure the right hon.
 327
 Mr. Cripps  was sorry to hear such speeches as had been delivered by hon. Gentlemen on either side of the House on this subject that night. He did not suppose that their object was to create mischief, but they must permit him to say, that they evidently could not intend by what they stated to do any benefit to the country. He was astonished to hear many of the statements which hon. Gentlemen had made. An hon. Member opposite had asserted that the effect of the new Poor-laws was to lessen rather than
 328 s. 329
 Mr. Christopher  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department and the House to the practice which the Poor-law Commissioners had adopted of forming very large unions. He attended the board of guardians of the union in the neighbourhood in which he resided, and by the desire not of the board of Guardians but of the magistrate he had represented to the Commissioners the great inconvenience of forming such large unions. He regretted to say that they had not attended to his recommendation. The union to which he alluded, which was in the northern part of the county of Lincoln, extended to a distance of from eighteen to twenty miles from the town in which the work-house was situated, and it was consequently utterly impossible that the aged or infirm could go such a distance to seek relief. Neither could it be expected that the guardians could be punctual in their attendance at the meetings of the board under such circumstances. He had also another objection to such large unions, and that was, that where there were a great number of guardians it was impossible that matters could be deliberated upon without party feelings. This was a serious evil, and while it existed, and it must exist in all large unions, it would be impossible to go on with the business in a manner satisfactory to any party. He begged it to be understood that he had no wish whatever to throw impediments in the way of the working of the new system. On the contrary, he was the vice-president of one of the district boards of the union in which he resided, and he was bound to declare that the system worked well in that union. He had only risen to impress upon the noble Lord and the House the inexpedience whenever it could be avoided of forming large unions.
 Mr. Baines  thought, the alarms which had been raised as to the operation of the new Poor-laws were without foundation in truth, and this had been proved to be the fact with respect to the representations which had been made of the working of the system in the south. The result of the inquiry by the Committee of last year had shown that the whole of the charges which had been brought against the Commissioners and guardians had broken down, but still he was glad that the Committee was to be re-appointed, because he was persuaded that any investigation that might take place, would tend to convince the public that the new Poor-laws would operate as advantageously in the north as they had done in the south. The sooner the existing prejudices against the system were removed the better, because they must all be aware that in many parts of the country those prejudices were likely to break out into open outrage. He had not supported the new Poor-law Bill, but from the experience he had of its working, he did not hesitate to say that it would be as advantageous to the north as it had been to the south, although, perhaps, less abuse existed under the old system in the former than in the latter part of the country. Whether the new Poor-laws operated well or ill was a fact which the Committee could easily be able to ascertain, and for his part he was most anxious that they should investigate and probe into the whole system, and every part of it. l'>y this means he was satisfied that the unfounded prejudices which were entertained upon the subject would be removed, and a proper remedy applied to any error or evil which might be proved to exist. He thought that hon. Members ought to observe great caution when they spoke on a subject so inflammable. This ought not to be dealt with as a party question, and he must be permitted to express the surprise which he felt at hearing hon. Gentlemen assert that no benefit had resulted to the poor from the new Poor-laws. If they had read the evidence taken before the Committee of last year, they would have found that the system had conferred great and substantial advantage on the poor; but while he said this he would not deny that abuses might exist, which called for and ought to be remedied. The hon. Member for Fins-bury had very properly brought forward the subject of medical relief, and there were other branches with respect to which, he had no doubt, inquiry would elicit im-
 331
 General Johnson  said, there was no evidence in the report of the Committee which went to show, that the labouring classes had admitted that they had been benefited by the alteration of the Poor-laws.
 Mr. Hodges  was exceedingly glad that the Committee was to be revived, because he considered the inquiry of last year an imperfect one. He hoped that the whole subject would now undergo investigation, and that no one question connected with it would be left untouched.
 Mr. White  said, that as the hon. Gentleman, the Member for North Lincolnshire, had alluded to the working of the new Poor-laws in the union with which he was connected, he (Mr. White) begged to say that in the Sunderland union, a union that embraced a population of 50,000, the system had also operated most beneficially to the poor. He was the president of the board of guardians of the Sunderland union, and therefore he had an opportunity of seeing how the Act worked, and from his experience he was enabled to assure the House that the alteration did confer great advantage on the great body of the poor. He had reason to know that money was
 332
 Lord John Russell  was very glad that he had given way to the hon. Member for Sunderland, not only because he was able to speak with confidence of the working of the new Poor-law Act from his observation of it as chairman of the board of guardians of a most extensive union, but also as he afforded a complete reply to the observations of the hon. Member for North Durham, as to the dark rumours that prevailed in Sunderland, and as to the effect that they had had on the minds of the people of that place; for if such a state of things did prevail, that hon. Gentleman was more likely to lose his election as a well-known defender of the new Poor-law than any other Gentleman.
 Mr. Liddell : The hon. Member for Sunderland had not contradicted any of his statements.
 Lord John Russell  was prepared to contend that the statement of the hon. Member was virtually contradicted by the observations of the hon. Member for Sunderland; for the hon. Gentleman, when he alluded to what he was pleased to call the dark rumours afloat respecting the new Poor-law, directly alluded to the union of Sunderland. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last, who was chairman of that board of guardians, told the electors who returned him that he would stand by the principles of the law, and, not withstanding the rumours which the hon. Member opposite alleged to prevail, the hon. Gentleman was returned. He would advise the hon. Member to pay as little attention as he did himself to such
 333 334 335 336 337 338
 Lord John Russell  wished to take that opportunity of stating to the House that he understood that doubts had occurred—although he did not think that they were reasonable and just doubts—as to the propriety and legality of the course that had been taken at the last sitting respecting the petitions that had been presented complaining of undue returns of Members at the late election. It was required by the Act that in certain cases within five days of the appointment of a Committee to try the merits of a contested election the parties should be mutually furnished with a list of the voters objected to on each side; but this period was lengthened five days in the case of county elections in England, and elections in Scotland. The clause in the Act went on to say, that the lists of objections, &c, should be exchanged so many days before the sitting of the Committee, but if the House should previously postpone the appointment of the Committee, that the time of exchanging the lists should also be postponed. He did not think that any fair doubts could arise or be entertained as to what took place the other evening on the subject of the postponement of the nomination of the Election Committees until after the vacation. He was told, however, that there were persons of authority who thought that there was a doubt on the subject, and that, as the Election Committees now stood fixed for the twelfth of December, two days before that time the parties interested in English county elections and Scotch elections where petitions had been presented, would feel themselves obliged to give in their lists. He stated this to the House, not that he entertained any doubt himself, but in the hope that the point would not be overlooked. If there was thought to be any ground of doubt in the opinion of the House, or in the mind of any hon. Member, he would endeavour to remove it by moving to-morrow, or next day, that the House would not take into its consideration any election petition until after the vacation. He did not wish, however, to take up the time of the House on the subject unless it appeared to hon. Members there were now
 284
 Mr. Pryme  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish grand juries in England. He was aware that the subject, though one of great and
 360 361
 Mr. Aglionby  meant to support the proposition for leave to bring in this Bill, but would not pledge himself to support it hereafter. He also complained of the manner in which his hon. and learned. Friend had endeavoured to stifle all discussion upon it.
 Mr. Fitzroy  rose, pursuant to his notice, to move for a return of the names of persons in the employ of the Post-office against whom complaints had been made for voting at the late elections, and also of those who had been dismissed for that cause. The hon. Member said, that the grounds on which he moved for this return were, that at the late election for the borough of Lewes, which he had the honour to represent, a person in the employ of the Post-office there had voted for him, and had since then been dismissed from his situation. He had been given to understand, that a similar rule had not been applied in other cases where parties in the employment of the Post-office had voted for other candidates. In that he might have been misinformed, but at all events he could form no correct judgment on the subject until the returns for which he moved were laid before the House. If it should appear to be the general practice in all cases, he could not complain; but if it were not, it was a case of hardship to which he should feel it his duty to call the attention of the House. This motion was in effect an act of kindness to the Government, as it would give them an opportunity of correcting, if it were erroneous, the very general impression that had gone abroad, that never had the influence of Government been more strongly used to effect the return, than at the last general elections. The returns for which he now moved would go far to rid the Government of the imputation, if it were unfounded.
 Mr. Francis Baring  seconded the motion, and said, he was equally as anxious as the hon. Member that the House should have the returns before them. If any dismissals had taken place from the Post-office for voting at elections, it was not the result of a regulation made at the moment. Notice had been given in 1835 under the late Government, in consequence of many persons in the Post-office having voted at the elections, that if in any future election any person so employed should have complaints made against them for having voted at all, no matter how, they would be severely dealt with, which was well understood to mean that they would be dismissed: and wherever any such complaints had been made, and the fact established, the parties were dismissed, without any distinction being made as to the party for whom they voted. He begged to deny the imputation cast by the last speaker, that the Government had used, most strongly used, its influence to affect the returns at the last elections. He was aware that charges of that kind were made in some of the newspapers, but of those he was not disposed to take any notice, but he was disposed to notice charges of a more tangible nature; one of these had been made in a letter from a gentleman con-netted with his (Mr. F. Baring's) own county, in which he had charged the Government with gross oppression, and canting and clamorous hypocrisy, with reference to the late elections. Now, he did think that a gentleman who felt himself warranted in making that charge ought in justice to himself and to the public, and to those charged, to bring it publicly forward and substantiate it by proofs, if he had any, and he would most readily give him the fullest opportunity of so doing.
 Mr. Francis Baring  was afraid he did not perfectly understand the charge of the hon. Member. The points of his statement, as far as he could collect them, seemed to be, that on the recommendation of a clergyman, a penny post-office was
 373
 Lord John Russell  complained, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, had not represented correctly the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General. His hon. and learned Friend had stated the impression of the House to be this:—that if there was no reasonable prospect that the principle of a Bill could be carried into law, it was not advisable to give leave to introduce it. Now. he was not prepared to abolish grand juries altogether; and such being the case, he should oppose the motion of his hon. and learned Friend for leave to bring in his Bill.
 Lord John Russell  would have supported a proposition for transferring the income of the bishopric, after existing interests were satisfied, to the Archdeacon and clergy of the Isle of Man, but he could not agree to the present motion, which he thought quite unreasonable.
 Lord J. Russell  replied, that after the attention bestowed upon the subject by Lord Brougham, it was intended to leave the matter in his hands. Her Majesty's Government certainly wished to see the recommendations of the Commissioners accomplished.
 Lord J. Russell  hoped, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would give a patient and attentive consideration to the recommendations of the Commissioners before he decided against them.
 Lord J. Russell  brought up the report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of Public Charities.
 Sir E. Sugden  replied, that he had given the subject a great deal of attention, and the reason of his making this remark, with which he had ventured to trouble the House, was to account for his name not having been signed to the report.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that he observed we were to have a new tribunal to decide on election petitions, that recently a new tribunal had been established to take cognizance of affairs in bankruptcy, and that now a third was to be created, having jurisdiction over charities. He decidedly objected to the ancient courts of the country being cut up into so many subdivisions. It was his opinion, that the want of general practice would in a great
 355
 Mr. Shaw  said, he should give his best support to the motion of the hon. Baronet opposite.
 Mr. Warburton  could not assent to the proposition of the hon. and learned Attorney-General, that the House had on a former evening laid down a rule, that if there was no prospect of carrying a Bill
 362
 Mr. Warburton  hoped, that his hon. Friend would comprehend in his motion, not only the fees of that House, but all fees charged under the authority of the Speaker. In cases where petitions were reported to be "frivolous and vexatious" surely some control should be exercised over the charges for fees to counsel. He apprehended that the Speaker had power to allow them or not. [Cries of  "No, no."
 The Speaker  said, that although he had the appointment of the taxing officer, he had nothing whatever to do with the costs
 370
 The Speaker  said, that the inquiry must be limited to the fees paid under the authority of the Act of Parliament. He had no authority whatever to do more in such case than to grant, when applied to for the purpose, the certificate to enable the party to recover his costs.
 Mr. Hume  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a subject which intimately concerned every individual Member, not only of the present, but of all future, Parliaments. The object which the motion with which he meant to conclude had in view was, if possible, to ascertain how far the expenses of controverted elections could be lessened. He wished it had been in his power to suggest any plan for regulating the expenses of counsel, as well as the fees of the House in such cases; but although he was not able to say how far their power extended in the former case, he had no doubt whatever, that the latter was a matter which was entirely within their control. The present scale of fees had existed since the year 1785, and certainly it was high time that some alteration on the subject should be made. He would not trouble the House by entering into a detail of the abuses of the system, but he might be pardoned for mentioning one or two instances, which would show how monstrous it was. By the Standing Order, or original rule, the sum of 2 s. d. l. s. l. s. s., s. l. l. 369
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had no objection to have such an inquiry as would enable them to ascertain the whole of the expenses, but he doubted whether they could carry the investigation beyond what he proposed,
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that after 200,000 l.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that some time since, in the north of England, a contest took place between a gamekeeper and a person supposed to be a poacher, in which the poacher was killed. A coroner's inquest was held on the body, and the jury returned a verdict of wilful murder against the gamekeeper. The grand jury, when the matter came before them, ignored the bill. He thought this fact afforded sufficient grounds for the assertion he had made.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that every man in England who had paid the slightest attention to the subject, knew that the grand jury was a species of Star Chamber, which served the purpose of screening the magistracy. The remark appeared to be felt, but he would repeat his belief that its only use was to screen delinquent magistrates. There were hundreds of commitments under the game-laws, which would throw disgrace on the magistracy, if the parties were brought to trial; but they were not tried, because the grand jury conveniently interposed between the com-
 365
 Mr. Maule  said, that the question was, whether this Bill was a fit subject for the consideration of the House. He was of opinion that it was, and that it did not deserve to be classed with those frivolous and trifling Bills which had wasted so much of the time of the House in former Sessions. He should support the motion of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Cambridge.
 Sir Charles Knightley  said, that he did not know the individual to whom the hon. Member alluded, but this he could state, that the complaints of the conduct of Government with respect to some of those who had voted against them at the last election were not confined to one individual, or to one county. He would beg to call the attention of the House to a case which had already made its appearance in some of the public papers. The facts were stated on the authority of the Rev. Mr. Charles Gilbee, a gentleman entitled to the highest credit. The hon. Baronet detailed the facts as they appeared in the following extract of a letter, addressed—
 Sir Edward Codrington  supported the motion. He had always expressed his opposition to the bishops having seals in the House of Lords, because he considered it injurious to the country. The bishop who was not in the House, but who devoted his time to the spiritual wants of his country, ought to be held up as an example worthy of imitation.
 Sir Harry Verney  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to relieve the Ecclesiastical Commission of England and Wales from the duty of laying before her Majesty in Council a scheme for uniting the sees of Carlisle and Sodor and Man. The see of Man being an island in itself, the greatest inconvenience would arise from adding to that see any portion of the main land. From time immemorial the Bishop of Sodor and Man had been of the greatest use to that island. Bishop Wilson was the first person who had translated the Bible into the Manx language, and he had also collected the ecclesiastical constitutions until he had so perfected them that, if the ancient discipline of the Church were lost to the rest of the world, it might be found in all its purity in the Isle of Man. The same rev. Bishop had also founded parochial schools and parochial libraries, and had likewise founded that system of education which it had been the object of the House to extend to all parts of the empire. It was of great importance to have a resident Bishop in the island, and the present Bishop had trodden in the steps of Bishop Wilson, having succeeded in building and repairing no less than twelve places of public worship, and having founded a college, containing two hundred students, not for the purpose of adding to the emoluments of the Church, but for the purpose of extending a liberal education to the subjects of her Majesty generally. Dissenters of every persuasion were admitted, there was no sort of religious bigotry, and for the trifling sum of 8/. a perfect school education might be obtained, under professors from Cambridge. No test was required to be
 356 357
 The Attorney-General  rose for the purpose of opposing the motion. He thought that there was a general impression in the House the other night that the House would not in future give leave to bring in a Bill unless there was a reasonable prospect that it could be carried into a law during the Session. His hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Cambridge, had asked for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish grand juries in England and Wales, Why, if grand juries were so faulty an institution, he had not proposed to extend his Bill to grand juries in Ireland, saving always their fiscal jurisdiction in that country, he had not thought proper to explain. He did not wish it to be supposed, because he opposed this motion, that he considered the institution of grand juries one of the best possible institutions for criminal jurisprudence; on the contrary, he thought that an officer like the public prosecutor in Scotland, who was appointed by the Government, liable to the same responsibility for his actions to which all other Government officers were liable, would be a far better institution. He was convinced that you must either have grand juries or a public prosecutor; and if his hon. and learned Friend had proposed, upon abolishing grand juries, to appoint a public prosecutor, he might have respectfully entertained that proposition, although he warned the House that it would be a proposition which could not be carried into effect in this country without many difficulties. But his hon. and learned Friend had not proposed any substitute for the institution which he desired to abolish; and as there was no chance of carrying such a Bill as he had proposed through the House, he must, with all deference to his hon. and learned Friend, withhold his assent from the motion.
 Sir Robert Inglis  would decidedly urge the Bill on the House, though upon very different grounds from those advanced by the hon. Baronet. The ground on which he proceeded he believed to be a far higher one than that of the hon. Baronet. The question at issue was not whether a new bishopric should be created; if it were, he (Sir R. Inglis) would be very ready to support such a measure, as he thought there was a necessity for more bishoprics, in order to meet the increasing wants of the community; but whether they should wantonly destroy the oldest bishopric in her Majesty's dominions, one which had furnished many saints (in the strongest sense of the word), and one in respect of which a prime minister of France had, a century since, given orders to the privateers of his country to spare the island which it comprised. This, too, they were about to do, in defiance of all the wishes of the people, as expressed in their petitions against the plan. As the motion had been made and leave given to bring in the Bill, he could not but hope, either that the noble Lord would withdraw his opposition, or that, the House would overrule it.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, a commission had been appointed to inquire into ecclesiastical revenues and duties, with the view to suggest such changes as might be useful. They had encountered considerable opposition from those who thought that no
 358
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it was not possible to maintain the proposition of the hon. and learned Attorney-General, that the introduction of a Bill was to be resisted unless there was a reasonable chance of carrying it to a successful issue in that Session of Parliament. The mode of dealing with the introduction of new Bills must depend upon the nature and merits of each distinct Bill. There were many Bills which, although not perhaps at all likely to pass into a law, might, notwithstanding, be very fit subjects to be discussed, while others ought to be rejected without any discussion. With regard to the present measure, he must say that there were, in his opinion, very satisfactory grounds for refusing to entertain it. No practical reason had been given by the hon. and learned Gentleman for striking out of our system of criminal jurisprudence this important branch, which gave, as he believed, perfect satisfaction to the people. If the House were to consent to abolish grand juries on the plausible philosophical reasons adduced by the hon. and learned Gentleman, what was to prevent him from recommending it to abolish petty juries also, for the same specious but unsatisfactory reasons? He could tell them that it was very absurd to have a tribunal of twelve persons to try every species of offence. He could tell them that it was still more absurd to require unanimity in their verdict, and to lock them up in a room till they came, in spite of all differences, to that unanimity. These might appear to some to be good plausible philosophical arguments; and when he had carried his Bill for the abolition of petty juries, and the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge had carried his Bill for the abolition of grand juries, the only part of the community who would receive their legislation with satisfaction, would be that part of it which was in the habit of preying on the property of its neighbours. He thought the House had a right to require of the hon. and learned Gentleman to propose some substitute before they proceeded at all to discuss such a proposition as this. It was bad policy in a branch of the Legislature to condemn any portion of the jurisprudence of the country on which the lives and property of the community depended for protection, merely because a philosophic speech had been delivered to recommend such condemnation. It would
 364
 Viscount Sandon  remarked, that commitments under the game-laws did not come before quarter-sessions at all. That court only took cognizance of aggravated offences, such as assaults. The hon. Member ought not to make a charge against the magistracy of England, without any sufficient foundation.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the motion of the hon. Baronet was of a most unusual nature, and he trusted that the House would not accede to it. The reasons why the punishment of this convict was commuted were shortly these:—A memorial was sent to him by Dr. Watson, who stated himself to be the clergyman of the parish where the convict lived, and it was signed by that gentleman and several other respectable persons in the parish. It stated that the man had undoubtedly been guilty of destroying his father's will, but it had been done under feelings of great excitement on his part, and that he appeared sincerely to repent what he had been guilty of; and it also added that he was in such a bad state of health, that the carrying the sentence into effect would most probably occasion his death. This petition came under the consideration of the Under-Secretary for the Home Department who recommended that the convict should be pardoned. He (Lord John Russell), however, under all the circumstances of the case, thought it advisable that the sentence should be commuted in the way in which it had been, namely, after the man had been imprisoned three months in the Penitentiary. If he had entertained any doubt as to the guilt of the man he should have sent to the chairman of the quarter-sessions in Northamptonshire; but in cases where there was no doubt of the guilt of the party, and where reasons might appear to arise for the remission of any portion of the punishment, it was not usual to make application to the judge who tried the prisoner. Hundreds of cases of the kind had occurred at the Home-office in which no application had been made to the judge. Above all, in cases where the putting the sentence in force was likely to be attended with danger to the life of the prisoner, the judge was not questioned on the subject. The hon. Baronet, however, seemed to think that the prerogative of mercy was in the chairman of the quarter sessions, and not in the Crown. He did not believe that any instance had ever occurred of calling for papers of this kind under such circumstances and should certainly oppose the introduction of such a precedent.
 Captain Pechell  would avail himself of that opportunity of putting a question to the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs. It would be in the recollection of the House that he presented a petition last Session from the owners of fishing-boats on the coast of Kent and Sussex, complaining of the conduct of the French fishermen on that coast, in pursuing a course calculated materially to injure, if not to destroy, the fishery. It appeared, however, that the subject of complaint not only existed on the coast of Kent and Sussex, but had extended to that of Norfolk and Suffolk. He wished to know whether Government had taken any steps with a view of putting a stop to this great grievance to our fishermen, and whether such interference had been attended with a favourable result, so that the French boats with their trawl nets would no longer come upon our coast, and impede the English fishermen during the mackerel and herring fishery.
 Viscount Palmerston  replied that his hon. and gallant Friend must be aware that the question put by him involved a subject of discussion between the French and English Governments of a much more extensive nature than he had described. It was true that frequent collisions arose on the coast between the crews of the fishing-boats of the two nations; much more serious differences, however, had arisen respecting the boundaries of the oyster fisheries of the two countries off Jersey. In the latter case a joint commission had been appointed by the English and French
 374
 Sir George Strickland  thought, the House and the country were much obliged to the hon. Member for his assiduity upon such an important subject. His hon. Friend, however, had forgot to mention that the Government and that House had at various times granted a sum of 20,000 l. 393
 Colonel Perceval , in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, said, he had hoped that her Majesty's Ministers would have conceded to him the papers that he had asked the House to give him in the first notice that had been entered in his name. He was led to hope that the papers would have been granted to him; for, from the conversation he had had with the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, he considered the hole Lord to have on his part no objection to the production of the charge against, and the sentence upon, Lieutenant Blake, of the 55th regiment, at the period stated in the paper of the House of Commons. But then he was referred to the right hon. the Member for Kircudbright. It was on this account he put his motion on the paper, in the hope that from five to seven in the evening her Majesty's Ministers would be able to make up their minds upon this subject. In the papers that he sought for, the ground of dismissal was stated with respect to the stipendiary magistrate Blake—that very stipendiary magistrate being the same Mr. Blake who had been cashiered when an officer of the 56th regiment. But he found now, from the course pursued by her Majesty's Government, that it would be necessary for him to go more into detail. He asked the House to grant him those charges against Mr. Blake, and that sentence, the approbation of the Prince Regent thereon, with a view to show how he, an individual in the county which he had the honour to represent, and, what he felt still more, those whom he had the honour of representing, had been treated by her Majesty's Government in Ireland. He understood that it had been stated, that Mr. Blake had been appointed to the commission of the peace ten years ago. With that appointment he had nothing to do. In the month of May last, when a return was made of the stipendiary magistrates appointed under the existing Government, his attention was drawn to the appoint-
 397 398 399 400
 Colonel Perceval  said, that those words had never been attributed to him in the affidavits.
 Colonel Perceval : Yes, often; and will again.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  thought, that Mr. Blake, and not the gallant Member for Sligo, was the aggrieved party. Mr. Blake, he thought, had been extremely hardly treated, and he hoped that an early opportunity would be taken, consistently with the dignity of the Government, of making him some return for the bad treatment he had experienced.
 Colonel Perceval  said, he felt like a person put upon his trial, and he would commence his defence by answering one question in the affirmative. He certainly did shake hands with James Simpson, and he hoped he should have frequent opportunities of shaking hands with him again. Mr.  Somers:
 Colonel Perceval  then moved for a Return of the names of the Chief Constables submitted to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland for promotion under the new Bill by the Inspector-general, distinguishing the names of those promoted, if any. He made this motion, because he considered that the understanding implied, if not expressed, by Ministers in the discussion of the Constabulary Bill last year, had been violated. The noble Lord opposite had implied, that the patronage and appointments under the Bill, should be vested in Colonel Shaw Kennedy. The declaration was hailed with cheers from both sides of the House, and, thus understood, it was permitted to pass without contradiction. The hon. and gallant Colonel referred to the speech of the noble Lord, to show that the appointments were to be nominally in the Lord-Lieutenant, but actually in the Inspector-general, in the same manner as it was exercised here in this metropolis. From the speech of the noble Lord, it was certainly to be inferred that the patronage was to be exclusively in the Inspector-General; but it since appeared, that so far from such being the fact, the appointments were with the Executive Government. The right hon. Member for Tam-worth, who took part in the debate on the Constabulary Bill last Session, understood the noble Lord in the same sense that he (Colonel Perceval) did, and with that understanding withdrew his objection. Many of the later appointments in the constabulary force had an appearance of partizanship, which would not be the case if Colonel Shaw Kennedy had had, as he ought to have had, the entire nomination.
 Colonel Perceval  read an extract from the speech of Sir Robert Peel, to show that the right hon. Baronet understood the propositions of Government in the same manner that he did, and the cheers of the whole House when the right hon. Baronet spoke the passage showed that they as-
 423
 Mr. Grote  gave notice, that he would at the next stage of the Bill move an instruction to the Committee to extend the benefit of the measure to persons of the Jewish persuasion.
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that the Bill had been allowed to be brought in without opposition on the distinct understanding that its provisions should not be extended to Jews.
 Mr. Baines  felt persuaded that any attempt to introduce the Jews into the Bill would be fatal to its success. For his part, though friendly to the claims of the Jews, he was satisfied, in the present instance, to take what he could get. Every one admitted that the declarations now imposed upon Quakers were incompatible with the dictates of their religion, and prevented their becoming members of municipal bodies, and thus deprived those bodies of many valuable officers. For this reason he was anxious to see them speedily admitted to corporate privileges. If any hon. Gentleman wished to introduce a Bill on the same principle for the relief of the Jews he would support it; but he hoped that they would not, by endeavouring to tack the Jews on the present Bill—deprive Christians of the expected relief. He thought he was not fairly used in this matter. He had, last Session, introduced a Bill, in which the Jews were included. The consequence was that it was violently opposed and delayed until the Session was so far advanced that when it went up to the other House it was rejected—first, because of the lateness of its introduction, and secondly, as introducing a species of legislation not hitherto recognised. He had now brought in the Bill for the relief of Quakers and Moravians solely, and he wished to limit it to that object.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if the Jews were not comprehended in the Bill he should certainly oppose it. This was a Bill to enable persons to undertake municipal offices from which they were now excluded by certain oaths. Now, what was a sheriff' but a municipal officer? And were not Jews now eligible—and if they refused to serve, subject to a fine? When they were introducing a Bill opening municipal offices to all her Majesty's subjects should they exclude from its benefits a large class who were now liable to be compelled to serve in such offices? He thought that the introduction of a clause in favour of the Jews would not endanger the Bill, and he hoped that on going into committee the hon. Member for the City of London would move it.
 Mr. G. F. Young  thought it was contrary to sound principles of legislation to make any exception in the bill. The present High Sheriff of London was a Jew, and no man could fill the office more efficiently, or with more credit to himself.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the speech they had just heard afforded sufficient warning of the danger of conceding fresh privileges to persons opposed to the Church. When, on a former occasion, he had taken the notice of the bill into his hand, and heard the speech by which it was explained, he did not expect it would be so comprehensive as was proposed by the hon. Members for Bridport and Teignmouth. The hon. Member for Leeds had stated, that he did not intend to include any sects in the bill except Quakers and Moravians, and on that stipulation he did not oppose the bill. Now they were told by influential Members, representing large constituencies, and on both sides of the House, that persons of all creeds must be included in the privileges. The hon. Member for Bridport was always consistent; his constant purpose was to annihilate the Church, and to do away with all Christianity. If the bill was to include the Jews he would certainly oppose it, and in his opinion it was sure to fall to the ground.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Baronet was quite correct in what he stated as far as regarded the hon. Member for Leeds, but the House was not to be influenced by that. It did appear to him that it was a reflection on the House of Commons that its time should be lost in conceding political privileges by driblets. The hon. Baronet was right in thinking he (Mr.
 425
 Colonel Conolly  seconded the motion and said: In rising upon the present occasion, I am actuated by two considerations, of which the first is essentially connected with the subject of the motion which my hon. and gallant Friend has just made, and in the second of which I cannot attempt to conceal from the House that my own personal feelings are very much involved. I fully participate in the feeling of profound respect which has been expressed by my hon. and gallant Friend for the high and exalted office of the individual by whom my mortification has been occasioned; but I still must take the liberty of trespassing on the attention of the House, and claim their indulgence while I bring under their notice a case of a most extraordinary description concerning that noble individual and myself. In deference to the exalted station of that individual, in profound respect for his office, as the representative of the Sovereign in Ireland, upholding the dignity of the Crown in that country. I yield to no man; but in proportion to the exaltedness of his station, is the mortification which I feel at the tone and language which have been made use of by him. I will, however, in the first instance, address myself to the subject of the motion immediately before us. There have been statements made in another place, which go to discredit some statements of mine made in Ireland, which in fact impute to me the misstatement of certain events connected with this individual, Mr. Blake. This has evidently arisen from a great misapprehension on the part of the noble person in question, from whom that imputation has emanated. I have been charged with having made an erroneous statement with regard to the transactions connected with the murder of Mr. Allen, near Tuber-curry, in the county of Sligo, and the inattention of the Government as evinced in not offering any reward, with the view of ensuring the detection of the perpetrators. Now, the real fact is this, I related at Enniskillen an attempt to murder—a most brutal and ferocious attack made upon another person of the name of Allen, thirty-six miles distant, in another district, and I did then express my astonishment that no steps had been taken by the Government to detect the offenders in this case by the offer of a reward. That feeling pervaded the whole county of Donegal, and I think that it was justly matter
 402 l. 403 404 405
 Lord John Russell  was sure that the House would be of opinion that his hon. Friend the Member for Shrewsbury deserved great credit for the intentions with which he had brought forward this subject and for the industry with which he had collected such various and interesting details. His hon. Friend had moved for a Committee of inquiry; and to the appointment of such a Committee he for one had no objection. At the same time he must observe, that he fully agreed with his hon. Friend in thinking that if any large or efficient plan of education were to be introduced into that House, or to be carried through Parliament, it ought either to originate, or at least be supported, by Her Majesty's Government. For his own part he had long; been persuaded that it would be a great benefit to the country, if by any well conceived plan of education they could diffuse education itself more generally through the community. Whatever might be the proportion of scholars of various sects in the different schools, and whatever might be the statistical returns made to the Committee, of which his noble Friend Lord Kerry was chairman, it was an undoubted fact that a lamentable degree of ignorance existed in this country. He wished that there was no more melancholy proof of it than was contained in the report of the Committee for the improvement of prison discipline, and in
 394 395
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin certainly misunderstood him in what he had said when the Irish Constabulary Bill was under discussion. He never had said, and never intended to say, that the patronage of the police force should be vested in Colonel Shaw Kennedy, and not in the Lord-Lieutenant. He understood when the measure was first proposed there was a strong objection to it, lest the person who was to be placed at its head might entertain any strong political bias. To obviate this objection, he wrote to Colonel Shaw Kennedy, to ascertain whether that gentleman would accept the appointment; and having obtained his consent, he then stated to the House that Colonel Shaw Kennedy, would be appointed Inspector-general, and have the direction and disposition of the force. This was all he had said, and the statement appeared to have given general satisfaction.
 Mr. Shaw  regretted that the right hon. Member for Tamworth was not in his place, for though the noble Lord, the Home Secretary, had not absolutely said, that the patronage would be vested in the inspector-general, both he (Mr. Shaw) and his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel) understood that such was to be the case. They understood that the discipline of the whole force was virtually to be vested in Colonel Shaw Kennedy.
 Mr. E. Shaw  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had made one statement of fact, in which, upon consideration, he was sure he would admit
 416 Browne: 417
 Mr. Briscoe  said, he never had heard a charge brought forward against any Government which had been so feebly supported and so triumphantly answered as the present. He did not rise to speak generally to the subject in debate, but to express his opinion on the case of the very hard-used individual whose conduct had been thus unsuccessfully impugned. He would refer to the recommendation of the court-martial which had tried Mr. Blake, and would ask whether the Government, after twenty-three years of unexampled good conduct on the part of Mr. Blake, would not be fully justified in tempering justice with mercy; and though they would not, perhaps, be acting wisely in reinstating him in the same office, yet he hoped that, in consideration of his valuable public services and strict impartiality of conduct, some other situation would be found for him. As an English Member, and therefore the less open to a charge of partisanship, he had stood forward to express his feelings on the case of Mr. Blake, which he was glad to see were participated in by a large number of those who heard him.
 Mr. Somers  was very sorry that the gallant Colonel had not had the good taste to leave his case to the tribunal which would shortly have to decide 418
 Mr. Brotherton  said, as the hon. Member for Shrewsbury had alluded to the state of ignorance and degradation in which the humble classes of Manchester and neighbouring towns were placed, he felt called upon to state that he must admit the truth of the statement. He had the honour of presenting lately a petition from the borough of Salford, for a system of education that would give every class of her Majesty's subjects the benefits of education; and he had attended one of the largest and most respectable meetings in the town of Manchester, at which the same object was discussed. He could take upon himself to say there was a strong feeling in that neighbourhood in behalf of a national system of education. No subject could be of higher importance.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, he had risen because it appeared to him that great injustice had been done to his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Perceval) by the course taken by the noble Lord (Morpeth). He should like to know what paper the noble Lord had referred to respecting the motion for a criminal information, because he had seen the documents on which that motion had been made, and he could state that the affidavits did not venture to attribute one syllable of that which the noble Lord had thought proper to read to the House as having been attributed to his hon. and gallant Friend. It seemed to him that what the noble Lord had read was an extract from a newspaper. He would only add, that the county of Sligo had been peaceable and orderly until it suited the purposes of certain parties to agitate it, and until the appointment of stipendiary magistrates, in the absence of the Lord-Lieutenant and the noble Lord opposite, had devolved upon persons who did not know those whom they sent to execute the laws of the country.
 Mr. Bellew  considered that the police force had greatly improved under the present Government. They were not now viewed by the people of Ireland in the same light as they were formerly. People
 422
 Mr. D. Browne  said, that allusion having been made to him by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, he begged to offer a very few remarks. He acknowledged that he was the person who recommended Mr. Blake as a stipendiary magistrate. He presented a memorial signed by Lord Oranmore and Lord Dillon, in which it was stated that Mr. Blake had been intrusted with the commission of the peace for the county of Mayo, in which he had conducted himself with credit to himself and to the satisfaction of the county. Mr. Blake had also acted as justice of the peace for the county of Galway, and had even been appointed, under a Tory Government, he believed that of the Duke of Northumberland, to a lieutenancy in the yeomanry corps. Under these circumstances he thought he was perfectly justified in recommending Mr. Blake as a stipendiary magistrate. He could only say, further, that at the time he was not aware of the court mar-
 415 Perceval
 Mr. Slaney , in explanation, said he never contemplated a compulsory rate. He wished that rate payers should have the power of assessing themselves for the purposes of education.
 Mr. Slaney  rose to move to a Select Committee to inquire into the condition of the labouring classes, with a view to devising some means of national education. He was sorry to bring forward his motion in the absence of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, as that noble Lord was particularly interested in the subject. He had intended to move for leave to bring in a Bill on the subject; but, in deference to one for whose opinions he had great respect, he had abandoned that intention. It would be his duty, in the first place, to bring under the notice of the House the vast increase which had taken place in the more humble portion of the community, especially in large towns; and, in the second place, he would show that their condition had not been improved in the same ratio as that of the other classes, more especially with respect to the education of their children. He would have to trouble the House with some details upon the subject, as there were so many new Members who might be unacquainted with the immense increase which had taken place in the manufacturing population, and the absolute necessity there was for a better system of education for those classes. As compared with the agricultural population, the manufacturing classes were in 1801 as 6 to 5, in 1811 as 9 to 7, in 1821 as 8 to 5, while in 1837 they had increased to more than 2 to 1. In the thirty years the increase in the agricultural population had been 45 per cent. while the manufacturing classes had increased upwards of 100 per cent. He had made an estimate of five of the largest
 382 383 Statistical Journal, 384 l., 385 386 387 Multum in parvo, 388 389 390 391 l., 392
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman might have well spared his eloquent indignation for a more worthy occasion. His noble Friend had merely stated that he thought, under the circumstances of the case, that the charges against Mr. Blake might have come with more delicacy from any other quarter than the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo, and for this reason, that there was pending between Mr. Blake and the hon. and gallant Member a litigation of a serious nature in the Court of Queen's Bench in Dublin. That court had already granted a conditional rule for a criminal information for gross misconduct. He did not care whether this was done in the words read by his noble Friend, or in words akin to them; whether his noble Friend had read the actual record or a newspaper report of what took place, the fact was
 412 413 414
 Sir R. Bateson  would solemnly assure the House that he understood the whole patronage was to be vested in Colonel Shaw Kennedy.
 Sir R. Bateson  seconded the proposition. The case of Mr. Gore Jones was, in itself, sufficient to warrant the motion before the House.
 Sir R. Peel  thought, the course most satisfactory to Mr. Blake, would be the withdrawal of the motion, when he considered the lapse of time since the court-martial; the declaration also of the noble Lord, that the appointment was unfortunate; and as Mr. Blake's conduct being yet under investigation, he thought the House would not object to the motion being withdrawn.
 Mr. Dennis O'Conor  said, that allusion having been made in the course of the present debate to Lord Oranmore, he had been requested by that nobleman in case such allusion were made, to state in his name, that some years ago he had been applied to to recommend Mr. Blake to the commission of the peace, but that Mr. Blake having been tried and convicted by a court-martial, he had declined doing so. Subsequently, however, Lord Bingham did recommend Mr. Blake, and he was appointed, not only to the county of Mayo, but to the county of Galway, and after that also was made a lieutenant in the yeomanry corps of Mayo; in all which capacities he believed that Mr. Blake had conducted himself in a most unimpeachable manner. The gallant Colonel had this evening read those parts of the proceedings of the courtmartial which bore most heavily on Mr. Blake, but he (The O'Conor Don) thought the gallant Colonel should in fairness have read those passages also which tended to the justification of that Gentleman. It was true that this court-martial had found Mr. Blake guilty, but it was also true that it had recommended him to mercy, because the officer whom he struck was the cause of all his misfortune, and because his previous conduct had been unimpeachable. He really thought it was too hard, now that Mr. Blake was verging into years, to bring up a hasty action committed in his youth to his prejudice, and that merely because that gentleman happened to be a political opponent of the gallant Colonel. He really hoped that the gallant Colonel would withdraw this motion, and not press it to a division.
 Viscount Morpeth  was unfortunately
 421
 Viscount Morpeth  was sure it would be most agreeable to the House that he should confine himself principally to the subject before them; but he felt bound, in the first instance, to refer to the digression into which the House had been led by the hon. and gallant Member for Donegal. He had only to observe that with regard to the offering of rewards for the detection of offences, Government almost invariably was guided by the report of the proper officers. The Government thought, and with justice, that the parties, from their intimate knowledge of the transactions, were best qualified to offer suggestions on the subject, and to tell whether the offer of a reward would conduce to the detection of the offence. The hon. and gallant Member for Donegal had alluded, not with strict regularity, to some comments made elsewhere. Now, he thought that the hon. and gallant Member viewed these charges in rather a graver light than they were intended to be viewed in. He admitted that his Excellency the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, in the speech which he had made elsewhere, had been so far misled, inasmuch as he had thought that the gallant Colonel had alluded to one transaction when, in fact, he alluded to another transaction. At the same time it should not be forgotten that the allusion had been most derogatory to the character of the Government, which had attributed to them an insensibility to the protection of the lives of her Majesty's subjects. With reference to the expression "itinerant orator," he thought that the honourable and gallant Member had invested it with a more offensive appearance than it was warranted to bear. The great extent of the property of the hon. and gallant Member in various parts of Ireland led rather to a multiplication of his appearance on the political stage, and the hon. and gallant Member should remember that he delivered his own sentiments rather too warmly to entitle him to any special forbearance on the part of others. He presumed that the word "orator" was not the part for which he had to offer an apology. With reference to the motion immediately before the House, he was not aware of any technical objection on the part of the War-office or the military department to the
 406 407 408 409 410
 Viscount Morpeth  was reading the account of what took place. The affidavit went on to say, that the only reply of Mr. Blake was, "I thank you;" that the witness believed that the offensive language used towards him was intended to induce him to commit a breach of the peace. The result was, that the court granted a conditional rule. Of course, he (Lord Morpeth) could not venture to decide upon the justice of the allegations or upon the merits of the case, but he did submit to the House, that the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo would do well to be
 411
 Viscount Sandon  agreed with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that it was desirable that Government should pause before it took any definitive measures upon such a subject as the present. He thought it better to strengthen the hands of the
 396
 Mr. Ward  rose to present two petitions respecting the manner in which Members were elected in the borough of Bridgewater. The first was signed by nearly 150 of the most respectable and influential inhabitants of Bridgewater. Amongst the signatures were the names of two noblemen, thirteen gentlemen or esquires, and 129 shopkeepers; these petitions complained of the open, notorious, and profligate corruption that prevailed in that place on elections of Members of Parliament. For some time past the most corrupt practices had prevailed in that borough, and bribes had been offered and accepted for votes, and the petition went on to state that there was a body of electors in that borough who invariably sold their votes to the highest bidder, and although there were many persons in the borough who did not sell their votes, yet that those that did being the larger body preponderated in the elections, and thus by corruption secured the return of the Members. The petition went on to state that at an election that took place in the spring of the year, when Messrs. Sheridan and Broadwood were the candidates, a room was opened by the friends of the latter for the purpose of receiving the voters; that it was partially darkened, and on entering it those who were disposed to vote for Broadwood received a ticket, and when the election was over, on returning it, they were presented with a parcel which contained ten sovereigns. It appeared that 150 votes were bribed in this manner. The petitioners prayed that the House would cause inquiry to be made into the state of the borough of Bridgewater, with the view of affording them an opportunity of verifying the statements contained in the petition before a Committee of that House, and that the House should adopt such further steps as it might deem necessary for the purpose of securing the freedom and purity of election in that place.
 Mr. W. Miles  wished to learn from the hon. Member for Sheffield whether he had
 468
 Mr. Ward  replied, that he had not given notice, as he at present had confined himself merely to the facts staled in the petition; but he intended after the recess to bring forward a specific motion for inquiry into the allegations of the petitions. The next petition which he had to present was from Sir Thomas Lethbridge, who was a candidate at the late election, complaining of the acts of corruption committed there.
 Mr. Gladstone  rose to order. He would put it to the hon. Gentleman whether he was justified in making a statement involving the character of Members of that House, when the parties were not there to answer him.
 Mr. Ward  had not made any statement calculated to raise a prejudice against any parties; but he had merely read extracts from the petition with a view of showing what was the nature of the petition. He could assure the hon. Member that he had altogether mistaken his conduct in supposing that he would lend himself to attack the character of any hon. Members in their absence. He had not made a single observation or remark on the petition; he had confined himself entirely to the allegations made by the petitioners, in doing which he believed that he did not transgress any of the rules of the House. The next petition which he had to present was from Sir Thomas Lethbridge, and it contained statements nearly the same as alleged in the former petition, and prayed that an inquiry might be instituted into the state of the borough of Bridgewater.—For the purpose of affording this opportunity he should at a subsequent period move for the appointment of s Select Committee upon the subject. The third petition which he held in his hand was from Sir Thomas Lethbridge and three other electors of the borough of Bridgewater, against the return for that place at the last election. This last petition, therefore, was an election petition.
 The Speaker  interrupted the hon. Gentleman and said that, with submission to the House, he doubted very much the propriety of presenting a petition to the House involving certain charges against certain persons, including the sitting Members for a borough, and afterwards receiving a petition from the same person questioning the
 469
 Mr. Ward  remarked, that the first petition was not signed by any person who had signed the election petition, The second petition undoubtedly had been so signed, as the name of Sir Thomas Lethbridge was affixed to it. If, therefore, it appeared to be against the feeling of the House to present this petition, he would withdraw it until after the proceedings on the election petition were terminated.
 The Speaker  stated, that he did not wish to take upon himself the decision of such a question; but it was one, in his opinion, which admitted of great doubt. The hon. Gentleman stated that the petitioners complained that this was a case of notorious bribery, and that the House should deal with it independently of any election petition. He could not, however, help feeling that to pursue this course would be dealing with the subject in a mariner that was contrary to the spirit of their general proceedings on election petitions. It was a very different case when there was no election petition, or when the time for petitioning against the return of the silting Member had expired.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that the first petition alluded to elections that had occurred in former Parliaments, and when Mr. Sheridan was candidate. He did not think that the receiving these petitions could in any way prejudice the case of the sitting Member. The petition should be considered as containing matter of information for the House, and that it, as well as all other petitions, should be received, that were not directly at variance with the rules of the House.
 The Speaker  said, that his objection to the reception of the petition was precisely that stated by the hon. Gentleman, namely, it was at variance with the rules of the House. It was considered unfair to receive a petition containing general allegations of certain facts, and making certain complaints from the same persons who had signed the petition against the return of the sitting Members. There could be no
 470
 Mr. Ward  willingly bowed to the decision of the chair, and would withdraw the Petition of Sir Thomas Lethbridge, but he should move that the first petition be printed. The other petition was an election, petition against the return, which he should move be taken into consideration on the 12th of December.
 Mr. Courtenay  stated, that he was but a young Member of the House, and but little acquainted with its rules; but he could not help feeling that it was not consistent with fair dealing to make charges of bribery and corruption against the sitting Members for a place in the way done by the petitioners. He considered the first petition to be in the nature of an election petition. Now, there was already an ordinary petition against the return of his hon. Colleague and himself. He did not know, however, whether this petition made allegations of bribery and corruption against them. For the sake of argument it might be assumed that it did, and if such were the case, he had no hesitation in affirming that it was one of the most scandalous and dishonest petitions that had ever been presented. On such a case as a controverted election petition, ought any man to bring forward charges bearing on the conduct of former elections? If the state of the representation of Bridge-water were such as had been described, and if the electors of that place had been guilty of such conduct as had been imputed to them, and if such abuses as had been described had existed for a long series of years'—at least beyond living memory, "there might be ground for the House to interfere for the protection of purity of election. But it was most improper and unjust that such a petition as had been read should be brought forward at such a time as the present, for no other purpose than to prejudice the minds of the Committee of that House and the country against the parties petitioned against in this election petition. He had no hesitation in saying that such a petition was a dishonest, scandalous petition. Those who complained of the state of the constituency of Bridgewater should have
 471 472
 Sir William Follett  regretted that he was not present when the discussion arose; but he would appeal to the Speaker and the House whether this petition could be received. Since he had been in the House he had collected from the speeches of the hon. Member for Sheffield that he had had three petitions to present; the first was a common election petition against his hon. and learned Friend and his hon. Colleague, upon the ground of bribery and corruption. He also understood that the hon. Gentleman had another petition of a different nature; it was a petition from a gentleman who was a candidate at the late election, not only complaining of the general state of the borough at former elections, but also referring to the late election. In consequence of a suggestion from the Speaker, the hon. Member for Sheffield thought it right to withdraw that petition, as it was not fair to offer a petition containing such allegations to the House at the time an election petition on the same subject was before it. The first petition, now before the House, was from certain electors of the borough of Bridgewater not the same as had signed the election petition, but others, and they went not only into allegations connected with former elections, but the very last election. They stated that bribery and corruption prevailed at former elections, and they prayed the House that inquiry might be instituted into the state of the borough, not only at former elections, but at the late election, which allegation materially affected the seats of the sitting Members. He would submit to the House that when an election petition was presented against the sitting Members, it was not fair nor right that that House should receive another petition from the same borough making charges of the same sort, and demanding a committee of inquiry of a different nature. It was prejudicing the case of the sitting Members to have such statements made and printed and circulated amongst the Members who were to form the Election Committee before which the case would ultimately come. At least in decency and propriety, in fairness and candour, the petitioners ought to wait until the election petition had been investigated and disposed of. After that had been done it
 473
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion that the hon. and learned Gentleman had confounded two cases which were quite distinct. The present petition was nothing more than a mere allegation of facts that formerly occurred, and referred only to elections long passed, while the election petition was confined to a mere statement of what had occurred at the last election, and referred to a particular case and particular facts. The hon. and learned Gentleman must, therefore see, that the chief fact alleged in the petition, namely, of general corruption, could not come judicially before the tribunal before which the election petition should be decided. He contended that the petition did not in any way interfere with the rights of any hon. Gentleman. He, therefore, trusted that his hon. Friend would persist in his motion for having it printed.
 Mr. Ward  had, without hesitation, consented to withdraw the petition which had been signed by the same parties that had signed the election petition. He did not wish to press hard upon any one; but he did not think that the House would act with justice in refusing to receive a petition from a large number of the most respectable Members of a constituency containing general allegations of bribery against the rest of their body. He thought that the House was bound to receive the petition, and allow it to be laid on the table for the information of Members. He should, therefore, move that it do he on the table as the petition of 150 of the most respectable inhabitants of Bridgewater.
 Lord John Russell  felt bound to say
 474
 Mr. Courtenay  agreed, that if there were only vague and general complaints in the petition, it would be immaterial whether it was received or not; but instead of that, the petition made specific charges, which went up to the last election. He agreed with the noble Lord that they ought not to refuse a petition from the borough of Bridgewater containing charges of general corruption; but this petition want to the extent of impeaching the last return.
 Mr. Leader  assured the House that he had no intention at present of entering upon any defence of the electors of the borough of Bridgewater. The hon. Members for the borough could do that. The presentation of that petition showed that there was some honesty existing in the borough, and that they did not approve of the mal-practices which it appeared systematically existed in the elections there. He had risen, however, to state that in this respect Bridgewater did not stand alone in its infamy; it was notorious that there were twenty or thirty other boroughs where the same practices were carried on openly as those complained of in the present petition. If a motion were made for a Committee to inquire into the borough of Bridgewater, he should move that the inquiry be extended to other boroughs. He did not think it fair that Bridgewater should be held up to infamy, when such places as Harwich, St. Alban's, Sudbury, Norwich, Liverpool, and other places were equally bad.
 Lord John Russell  stated, that in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, he had read over the petition, and he felt bound to say that it referred to circumstances that took place at the last election, and therefore, under the opinion of the chair,
 475
 Mr. Hume  submitted to the chair whether parties making general allegations in petitions, who had not entered into recognizances, could be considered as signing anything in the light of an election petition?
 The Speaker  said, that if the hon. Member asked him whether or not this was an election petition, he should reply, certainly not: it appeared to him to refer to the general practice, and did not confine itself to what occurred at the last election. This was a matter for the House to decide. He would, however, call the attention of the hon. Gentleman who presented the petition to certain indications in it which resembled the allegations in a petition complaining of an undue return.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the House could not be too careful in guarding against the adoption of any course which would excite the slightest suspicion of the tribunal before which election petitions were tried. In his opinion the petition ought not to be received.
 Mr. Wakley  protested against the opinion put forth by the hon. and learned Member. If the course proposed by him were acted upon, it would lead to the greatest corruption. Petitioners might come forward with pretended petitions with a view of stifling inquiry into corrupt practices, and by this collusion the House would be most grossly imposed upon. He repeated, pretended election petitions would be presented for the purpose of concealing the corruption and excluding the proofs of bribery, while those who took no part in the illegal practices would be shut out from the attention of the House, and thus justice would be denied to them. He thought the course which ought to be pursued was obvious. The hon. and learned Member for Bridgewater assured the House that the allegations of the petition, as far as they concerned himself, were altogether false. Why, then, should they not appoint a Select Committee forthwith to inquire into the allegations of the petitioners, and then the hon. Member and his Colleague would have an opportunity of proving that they were innocent as regarded this charge. He trusted that the petition would be received. Looking at what had been done respecting the getting up election petitions against
 476
 Mr. Goring  thought, that the delicacy adverted to by the hon. Member for Finsbury was not out of place. He could not help feeling that those Gentlemen who supported the proposition of the hon. Member for Liskeard the other evening were not acting consistently when they pressed upon the House such a petition as this, affecting Gentlemen whose returns were petitioned against at the same time.
 Mr. Ward , finding the feeling of the House against the reception of these petitions at present, would withdraw them but he begged to add, for the satisfaction of those who had intrusted him with the petition, that he should take another opportunity of presenting the petition from Bridgewater when the election petitions had been disposed of, when the same objection which had that night been urged against it would not apply, and he would then found on it a motion for a Committee of inquiry.
 Mr. Wallace  had to mention a matter which appeared to him a question of privilege. He had seen in several of the newspapers that morning an allegation reported respecting him, which appeared to him derogatory to his character as a Gentleman, and as a Member of that House. Through a private friend he had since been given to understand that the observation was not applied to him in a personal way. The case was this:—It had been charged against him that he had made it matter of complaint against the Post-office two years ago the a letter inclosing a petition had not been duly forwarded to him from the Post-office, although, as it was stated, he at the time had both the one and the other actually in his possession. Now, the facts were, that he had never received the petition at all, and that he did not discover the letter which he considered had accompanied the petition till a long time afterwards, and it was then only by mere accident that he found it among a number of his papers. The moment he discovered the letter he sent and made the Postmaster-General acquainted with the fact; but he would repeat that he had never seen the petition at all. Again, it
 477
 Mr. Wallace  rose to call the attention of the House to the most extraordinary document that had ever been laid before them. From a return which had been laid before the House, it apeared that in a period of eight years no less a sum than 640,000 l l 503 l l
 Sir Charles Styles  was favourable to the establishment of a Poor-law in Ireland. He considered that workhouses would afford a sufficient test that none but those who were really destitute should receive relief. Looking, he said, to the expenses of the Poor-law in this country, where the number of poor was comparatively low, he calculated that when a Poor-law was brought into operation in Ireland, the expenditure certainly would not be less than 2,000,000 l l
 Mr. O'Brien  contended the Act did not bear the meaning given to it by the right hon. Gentleman, and that it never was intended as a temporary measure nor was there anything in it that could justify such a supposition, and trusted the benefit that would derive from its being carried into effect would not longer be withheld from the country.
 Mr. Wallace  was glad to hear, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to bring in a Bill for the reform of the post-office, and that he should, therefore, withdraw his motion.
 Sir G. Strickland  thanked the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this motion for his exertions in a matter of so much public interest. It was highly necessary that a system of increased security and vigilance should be introduced without delay into the post-office department. He was glad to hear that the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to take a step towards this by introducing a Bill for the registration of letters.
 Lord John Russell  said, no provision had been made.
 Lord John Russell  said, he was very glad his proposition had been so fairly received. It was his intention to propose the second reading before the holidays, as he did not anticipate that on the second reading there would be any difference of opinion, and he hoped to be able to go into Committee rather early in February. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden), he would not enter upon the questions referred to; he would merely say that he considered that if there was no law of settlement they must either have unions established simultaneously, or make some provision for the unions first established until the others were established. This was a point well worthy of the consideration of the House, and, he must add, of the Government and the Commissioners.
 Lord J. Russell : I rise, Sir, to bring before the House a subject, the great importance of which has been universally admitted. I shall not go into the question in detail, but refer particularly to those parts of the measure which may be better considered in Committee. But as it is a question of vast consequence—as it is a measure which, if carried, must have great influence on the future destinies of Ireland—I think it fitting that I should state the reasons upon which I conceive its propriety and policy are grounded. With respect to the general principle of measures to be adopted in reference to the poor, I think there has prevailed an almost universal and unfortunate confusion of ideas. It has been generally supposed that there is a sort of royal road by which the prosperity of a country can be ensured by means of legislative enactments. The view which I take of a poor-law rests on entirely different principles. I maintain that the general comfort of the poor, their general prosperity, and the maintenance of due wages, by which they are enabled to live, depend, indeed, on general government or general legislative enactments, but not on especial laws framed for that particular purpose only. For instance, the general principles on which the prosperity of a country, and of the classes in question more particularly depends, are, that there shall be security for life and security for property; that there should be full freedom of choice of occupation or profession; that the road to distinction shall be open to all; and, finally, that there shall be no monopoly,
 478 479 480 "The number of people now in Ireland is about 1,100,000, namely, 300,000 English, Scotch, and Welch Protestants, and 800,000 Papists, of whom one-fourth are children unfit for labour: and 75,000 of the remainder are, by reason of their quality and estates, above the necessity of labour, so there remain 750,000 labouring men and women, of whom 500,000 do perform the present work of the nation. The said 1,100,000 do live in about 200,000 families or houses, whereof about. 16,000 have more than one chimney, and about 24,000 have but one. All the rest, being 160,000, are wretched nasty cabins, without chimney, window, or door, even worse than those of the savage Americans, and wholly unfit for making merchantable butter, cheese, or the manufacture of woollen, linen, or leather." 481 
 
 Population. 
 In 1754 2,372,634 
 1767 2,544,276 
 1777 2,690,556 
 1785 2,845,932 s. d. 482 483 484 485 486 487 488 l. l. l. l. l. 489 l. l. l. l. l. 490 491 492
 Mr. Lynch , as a lawyer, had no hesitation in asserting the act did not bear the construction put on it by the Chanceller of the Exchequer; he could instance several cases similar to that stated by his hon. Friend the Member for Roscommon, and joined with the hon. Member for Limerick, in hoping a line of conduct which really could not be justified, would not longer be persevered in.
 Mr. D. Roche  said, he hoped that the hon. Member for Monaghan (Mr. Lucas) would persist in the motion of which he had given notice when the Bill came forward, as if there was not a law of settlement the Bill would have an injurious effect on the state of society in Ireland.
 Mr. Lucas  had heard with great satisfaction the statement of the noble Lord. He begged, however, to observe to the noble Lord that any statement which could be made as to the linen trade in 1824 was not at all applicable to the same trade in 1837, as the linen trade had greatly diminished since 1824. He hoped that this question would never degenerate into a party one. As to a law of settlement, he begged to say that he would bring forward a motion on that subject similar to that which he had submitted to the House last year. He wished that a point of so much importance should be again considered, in order that it might receive the solemn decision of a new Parliament.
 Sir Edward Sugden  said, he was glad to be able to concur in the proposition of the noble Lord. With respect to the subject of out-door relief, he thought it was utterly impossible to think of extending it to Ire land. He was not in favour of the workhouse system if they could find a better; but in Ireland he thought they must be content with this system, and the only object was to see that it was well applied. He entertained a strong opinion against the law of settlement. He thought that, if possible, it ought to be avoided, and he was not certain that it could not be avoided. There might be times when there would be such a pressure of population in a particular district as really to swamp all the means of supply, if there was not a law of settlement. He thought that it would be found necessary, unless there was a law of settlement, to have a
 502
 Mr. French  should not trespass on the House for any time. Indeed as far as the Bill about to be introduced was concerned, he had been anticipated in all he was anxious to say, by his right hon. Friend, the Recorder of Dublin; he perfectly agreed with him, that if they were to have a Poor-law in Ireland, the safest test of destitution that could be applied was the workhouse system, and his views of the necessity of placing some limit to the power proposed to be vested in the Commissioners, whether that limit was to be as to the amount to be levied under
 497 l. 498 l 499
 Mr. F. Shaw  inquired, whether there had been any provisions made for establishing the unions simultaneously.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that as that was only a
 493 494 pro tanto, 495 496
 Mr. George F. Young  believed, with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the merchants and bankers of the metropolis would not be in favour of any alteration in the conveyance of letters which should subject them to deliveries at different periods of the day instead of at one fixed and uniform hour.
 Mr. Labouchere  believed, that most of the charges against the post-office which had been made this evening were extravagant and unfounded. He admitted that the security of letters at present enjoyed was not such as the public had a right to look for from a public department; and he believed that the best remedy which could be applied to this evil was that of a registration of letters as proposed by his right hon. Friend. Such a registration, he thought, could be very easily carried into operation as far as the security of the letter was concerned; but as to the contents of it, that, he thought, could hardly be attempted to be ensured, as it would be impossible to examine every letter in the midst of the hurry of business at a place like the post-office. Registration was already to a certain extent carried on at the twopenny post-office whenever the letter contained money or otherwise, on the demand of those who sent the money, and it had been found so efficient, that in upwards of 100,000 letters which had been registered in this manner, only two losses had occurred. He thought, however, that if the post-office were responsible for small sums, it would be of great convenience to the poorer classes.
 Mr. John Young  hoped, that when the Bill had been read a second time, as he supposed it would be without opposition, the noble Lord would not pass it through the Committee, immediately after the recess. Time should be allowed for receiving and weighing observations and suggestions from Ireland, especially from the grand jurors, who would probably begin to assemble the last week in February. He hoped the Committee would be fixed for after that period; the more information afforded on the subject, the more discussion that took place, the better—they would facilitate the introduction of the measure, and exaggerated anticipations of mischief on the one hand, and of indefinite and impracticable good on the other, would be dispelled. Indeed, Mr. Nicholls's second report presented that morning stated the public mind of Ireland was now much better informed on the subject than formerly. The hon. Member concluded, by saying, he was not sorry to hear that the further consideration and more extended inquiry they had afforded the question, had confirmed Ministers in their adherence to the main features of their former measure — to an absolute rejection of a law of settlement, and an exclusively in-door system of relief.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that as the right hon. Gentleman threw some doubts upon the accuracy of the supposed losses to the public, as manifested in this return, the Post-office should be at some pains to ascertain whether those returns were correct or not. He thought also that it was high time that the public, having only this one means for the conveyance of their letters at their disposal, should enjoy something like security as respected their letters and the contents of them. There was the case of 7 1. s. 506
 Mr. Slaney  said, that the state of destitution which existed in Ireland was such as ought not to exist in a Christian country. This was not an Irish question only; the people of this country were deeply affected by the state of the people of Ireland. It would be useless to endeavour to raise the condition and tone of feeling of the people of this country, if they did not at the same time elevate the condition and moral tone of their brethren in Ireland. It was a matter of great congratulation to him that on one Irish question there was not any difference of opinion, and he entertained strong hopes that this would greatly contribute to the success of the experiment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad the hon. Member, by making a motion, had given him an opportunity of making a brief reply. He was not surprised that the hon. Member had drawn the attention of the House to these returns, seeing the amount of money involved in them. The hon. Member seemed to suppose that this sum, 600,000 l 504 l. l l. 505
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in reference to what had been said by the hon. Member for Roscommon,(Mr. French) explained that an act had passed last year, to enable the Government to advance, in cases of great emergency, the public money under the superintendence of the board of works. It would, he thought, be a most unfortunate lesson to teach to the people of Ireland, it would be most unfortunate for themselves, if they were to expect that in every case of distress, they were to calculate upon receiving money from the Government. A case of very great and extraordinary emergency could alone justify such an application. The Act of last year was intended to apply to such a
 500
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was quite true that, in conformity with the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into the affairs of the Post-office, he had introduced a Bill for the reform of that department, two Sessions ago. At that time he certainly did state that he could not approve of the present system of Post-office management; but, at the same time, he said so without at all impugning the conduct of the Duke of Richmond, or of his successor, the Earl of Lichfield. On the contrary, he bore testimony to the zealous efforts of those two noblemen to contend against the radical defects of the system under which they had to act; and the conclusion which he then drew was, that, if after all that had been done by them, there were still defects at the Post-office, there was the greater necessity for a complete reform. He had succeeded in carrying that Bill through that House, but he could not be held responsible for its fate in the other House. He had only to add on this subject that nothing but the early termination of the last Session had prevented him from again introducing a Bill on this subject, and that he certainly proposed to do so in the present Session. With respect to the letter which the Postmaster-General had written in reference to a letter containing money which had miscarried, and upon which the hon. Member for Kilkenny had commenced by declaring, that the man who had written such a letter should not remain in his situation, he begged to submit that, however such a circumstance
 507
 Lord Clements  remarked that Mr. Nicholls had, in his last report, referred to
 501
 Mr. Grote  said, he believed that the present was the fit time for him to move that the Bill be extended not only to the Quakers and Moravians, but to all classes of her Majesty's subjects. In doing so, he desired to explain that nothing was farther from his intention than to interfere with the wishes of the hon. Member for Leeds, as regarded those two classes of Dissenters which were included in his Bill. He was of opinion that the principle of the Bill did not go far enough. It was impossible to follow this course of legislation without feeling that, from the passing of the Test and Corporation Acts' Repeal Bill, the principle of imposing tests had been abandoned. The imposition of civil disabilities on account of the party's religion he believed was now considered out of the question. The House could
 509 510
 Mr. Goring  seconded the motion, and contended that it was unworthy of this enlightened age and country to retain those laws which excluded Jews from civil rights.
 Mr. Langdale  was not prepared to go along with the hon. Member for the city of London in his present amendment, and he would tell the House why. It was on this ground, and on this ground alone, that he conceived that the adoption of the present instruction would endanger the success of the Bill altogether. He was of opinion that this Bill ought to pass, because, if Quakers were permitted to make affirmations, instead of taking oaths, on matters of life and death, surely their declarations on accepting municipal offices ought to be considered sufficient for all practical purposes.
 Sir J. Duke  hoped that, as a new Member, he might be permitted to say a few words on the present occasion. As Sheriff of London, he bore testimony to the merits of both his successor and his predecessor in that office, who, as the House was well aware, were both Jews. His predecessor had retired into private life attended by the respect and approbation of all who witnessed his official exertions; and his successor, who was at present fulfilling the duties of his office,
 511
 Mr. Pattison  supported the amendments proposed by his hon. Colleague. He was surprised to find opposition made to such a proposition on that (the Radical) side of the House, although he was quite prepared for it on the other side. He had a notice of a motion for that night, which he would not go on with if the House acceded to that of his hon. Friend. But if the proposition of his hon. Friend were rejected he should certainly bring forward his own. He wished to add the expression of his feelings and those of his constituents in support of the views and opinions expressed in favour of the Jews by his hon. Colleague. He would illustrate the estimation in which gentlemen of the Jewish persuasion were held in the city, by observing that when he left the chair as governor of the bank, a Jewish gentleman was proposed to fill it, and the seconder of that gentleman was Mr. Gurney, the Quaker. He gave the proposition of his hon. Friend his hearty support.
 Sir Robert Inglis  had great pleasure in
 512
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that he knew the hon. Member for Oxford was on all occasions in the field against any propositions which were introduced as regarded the Jews. Now, he would not admit any argument which speculated on what might be done in the other House of Parliament. The question seemed to be, whether the principle should be established that no man, be his religion what it might, should be disabled from holding any civil office by reason of those religious opinions,
 513
 Mr. Kemble  said, if he understood the object of the bill, its purpose simply was
 514
 Mr. George F. Young  said, the hon. Member for Surrey, in asserting that the amendment would sanction the admission of Jews into that House, as well as enable them to hold municipal offices, had confounded two objects totally distinct. The Jews were not excluded from municipal offices; the question was, whether they should continue to hold them under the absurd and anomalous tenure by which they are at present compelled to fill them, or whether a more sound and rational system should be introduced. Would any man maintain that a Jewish sheriff, elected by the citizens of London, and liable to a fine of 600 l.
 Captain Pechell  remarked, that Mr. Salomons, a well-known member of the Jewish persuasion, had lately canvassed a borough in the county with which he was connected, and that the prejudices against him felt by many at first were entirely removed before the canvass was finished. He hoped the House would see the necessity of now granting an immunity, the concession of which was demanded by a vast majority of the nation.
 Sir C. Burrell  must say, as Mr. Salomons, his late opponent at Shoreham, had been referred to, that he believed the character of that gentleman for respectability stood very high. Truth obliged him to add, however, that the supporters of Mr. Salomons were, with few exceptions, of an inferior class in the social scale; how their votes were obtained, he would not say. The conduct of Mr. Salomons' supporters during the election was not at all creditable to them. With regard to the matter immediately before the House, he should certainly give his vote against the amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the constituency of Shoreham did not in future boar a very good character, they must ascribe it to the efforts of the hon. Baronet to set the House right on the point, as no one could have said anything against it but for the information kindly supplied by him. He could not content himself with giving a silent vote on this occasion, and the reason was, that the motion, as the hon. Member for Surrey (Mr. Kemble) said, involved a principle. The hon. Gentleman had used this argument against the motion of the hon. Member for the City of London, he (Mr. O'Connell) did not think in a legitimate way, for, by the hon. Member's manner of arguing, it seemed as if he would support the principle if it were separately laid down. It appeared to him to be a paltry and pitiful mode of legislation to be hair by hair and bit by bit admitting persons into offices without the exaction of religious tests. He did not know anything so derogatory to Christianity as those religious tests for admission to office; they became mere oaths of course; (here was no sanctity about them, and the flippancy with which the ceremony was gone through in the usual routine of office was really anything but creditable to the religious feelings of the parties. If religious feelings existed, what should be the foundation of them? Justice to every creed —noninterference with private judgment—permission to every man to enjoy the fullest liberty of conscience—the renunciation of all claim to dictate the religious opinions of others. No man in that House had a right to inquire into the religious opinions of any individual; conduct alone ought; to be regarded, and if it were such as to entitle a man to civil rights, the morn conscientious he was in refusing to take
 516
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Inglis) had assented to the 87th section of the Act 3 and 4 William 4th, which enacted, that no native of British India, nor any natural-born subject of his Majesty residing therein, should, by reason of his place of birth, descent, or colour, be disabled from holding any place, honour, or emolument, under the East-India Company. Why should the hon. Baronet withhold the same privileges from the Jews of this country which he had consented to grant to every native of our Indian dominions? Why should he deny to natives of England those rights which were enjoyed by her subjects in a distant region?
 Mr. Baines  rose, but gave way to
 Lord John Russell  who said, his vote would be very much governed by the opinions held by the hon. Member for Leeds, who had prepared the Bill. With regard to the difference between the hon. Member for Dublin and the hon. Member for Surrey, he had no hesitation in declaring his support of the principle involved in the amendment; and if he thought, he could forward the progress of any measure by asserting that principle, he should be most happy to do so. But the question with respect to this Bill was of a different nature. when the Bill for the repeal of the Test and Corporation Act was before Parliament, it was returned from the House
 517
 Mr. Baines  thought, that both duty and
 518
 Mr. Warburton  said, that many Members who had been instructed by their constituents to attend to this question were about to leave London, it was therefore impossible for him to postpone it. Let the House look to the enormity of the sufferings of those whose
 538 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty to be graciously pleased to give directions to the Commissioners to whom it was referred, to examine the claims of certain British subjects for losses sustained on account of book debts, and other property confiscated by the Government of Denmark in the year 1807, that they shall examine the claims for losses sustained on account of seizures by the said Government in the said year, and for the subsequent confiscation of merchants' stores, and which claims, or evidence by which they are supported, may not have been delivered into the said Commissioners before the 12th of February, 1835, and that the said Commissioners shall report on such claims to the Lords' Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to the form in which the hon. Member meant to bring forward the present motion, but he would tell his hon. Friend the mode in which he intended to meet it, namely, by calling for the production of all the minutes of the Commissioners and of the established rules under which the money had been distributed by them; and when the House was in possession of these minutes, and knew what had been done, it would be able to say whether it acquiesced in it or not. If they discussed the question at that time, he had no objection to the form of the motion if it were meant to be restricted to the application of the money which had been already voted; but if it were intended to include any application for a new grant, then he undoubtedly did object.
 Mr. Warburton : The motion did not include any application for a fresh grant.
 Mr. Warburton  did not intend to imply that he might not require a vote after the report of the Commissioners had been
 539 l. 540 l. 541 in transitu, 542 l., 543
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted that the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat had not granted him the indulgence which he had requested, for he feared that not having had an opportunity of inspecting the various documents on the subject, his explanation to the House might not be so full, so clear, or so satisfactory as hon. Members had a right to expect. The case was certainly not a new one, and the House would not consider that it was a party question at all, and if he argued against the motion of the hon. Member for Bridport, he should do so as being connected with the Treasury, and on account of his duty to resist any claims on the public purse which he might not consider to be well-founded. He was a mere individual Member of that House, and whether its Members chose to vote 150,000 l. 544 l., l., l. l. 545 Warburton: 546
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he thought the deficiency of the right hon. Gentleman did not consist in his being unprepared on the subject, but in the matter which had fallen from him. The facts of the case were clear enough. There had been three kinds of property confiscated, namely book-debts, goods on shore, and goods afloat; in the opinion of the law officers of the Crown the seizure of the two first-named species of property was in violation of the law of nations, while those which were afloat did not come within the same description. There were thus two classes of property, for one of which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted the parties should be indemnified by the Government. The sum which was seized by England was not paid over to the parties whose goods had been taken by Denmark, and who were entitled to the protection of the British nation, in order to obtain redress. So the parties stood until 1834, when their claims were first recognised. Some of them were admitted, and how were the others forfeited? By some delay only, which was brought forward against those who urged them. Thus the British nation, from 1807 to 1834, improperly resisted the claims: they were postponed by the default of the Government; and was it not a very small objection, to say the least of it, now to turn round and say, "We, who represent the British Government, have been guilty of a laches in not attending to your claims until 1834; but you have also been guilty of a laches in not bringing it forward until now, and therefore you have lost your remedy." The notice was first confined to the book debts; it was a notice that the parties might come in, and if they could prove their claims within three months, that they might obtain compensation. Now, was it likely that the claimants would incur the expense of sending messengers to Denmark, and exert themselves in other ways to establish their
 547
 Mr. Maclean  felt, that, if he refused the claims of these parties, he should be doing an act of injustice. What was the matter of fact? There were certain individuals proving that, by no act of their own, having sustained a severe loss, they had been excluded, by a Treasury minute, from the benefit intended to be conferred on them by a solemn resolution of the House of Commons; for he did not find that it was the intention of the House that the benefit or been should be conferred on those claimants alone who had lost their book-debts, but that it should be extended to goods that were confiscated on shore. What was the course taken by the Treasury? They gave notice that proof as to the book-debts alone should be received for the space of three months. Subsequently the notice was extended to cases of loss of goods on shore; but the time given was three months only, which rendered it impossible in many cases that the proof could be obtained in time. Suppose any of the parties had gone to the East or West Indies? and he knew of such cases. It would have taken a month or five weeks to carry the notice that the Treasury had conceded so far as to admit the proof's, and it would have taken live or six weeks to return with the proofs.
 548 l. l. l.
 Mr. Babies  inferred, from the tone in which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken, that he did not mean seriously to oppose these claims. If in the year 1834 it was right that these claims should be granted, the claimants ought not to be satisfied now with the mere payment of their debts, inasmuch as the amount of their debts would be doubled if they received common interest on them for the period the payment had been delayed, viz.: thirty years. Surely, then, these parties were entitled to great indulgence. To allow only three months to collect proofs of claims which had slept for so long a period was not, in his opinion, a sufficient time. He hoped that
 549
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, it was not his intention to occupy much of the time of the House, but he trusted that as a new Member some indulgence would be extended to him when he stated that he rose on the present occasion at the earnest request of his constituents, who begged the House to give effect to the declaration which had been made by Lord Althorp, in his place as Chancellor of the Exchequer, when speaking of the justice of these claims. If it were long since this debt was incurred, the greater the injustice of further deferring it. If the amount claimed was large, the greater was the right which he appeared to advocate. The question was one of principle, and the principle had been settled, and he did not think that the House would yield to the argument of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he stated that they might find the amount more than they expected, and that the claimants might be glad to compound—to compound with the failing credit of a country like this, and to have taken originally the 200,000 l., l.,
 Mr. Warburton  replied, that the sum which the claimants had received, did not amount to more than 3 s. 550
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, no one individual of the House having sustained him in the effort he had made to resist these claims (and a very painful and disagreeable duty he could assure the House he had found it), he felt that he had no alternative but to propose to the hon. Gentleman, that he should leave the matter in his hands, and he would bring the question before the House after the cases had been investigated. He took the liberty of saying, however, that this must be considered as the proposition of the House, and not his. He objected to it on principle, and if he thought he was likely to be supported in his opposition to it, he would resist it still; but the debate having been proceeded with exclusively on the part of the claimants, no one individual, on either side of the House, this being a matter in which party considerations did not enter, having supported him in the view he had taken, he felt that he should be conforming to what appeared to be the desire of the House, in directing an examination to be instituted, and in engaging to bring the subject hereafter under the consideration of the House. He must again express his hope, that the House would not throw on him any of the responsibility of pursuing this course.
 Mr. Warburton  said, as in the case of Mr. Palmer's motion, the matter was left in the hands of Lord Althorp, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, so he now committed the case to the hands of his right hon. Friend.
 Sir Edward Sugden  said if the House were so perfectly satisfied with the alteration in the state of the law as it appeared to be, he had no objection that the country should have the benefit of the change. He had done no more than his duty in stating his objections to it. He would only beg just to observe that he had not been guilty, that he was aware, of any want of courtesy towards his hon. and learned Friend, in not communicating to him his (Sir Edward Sugden's) objections to the Act, because a book had been published which his hon. and learned Friend must have well known was published with his (Sir Edward Sugden's) approbation, which contained all the objections he had tonight stated to the Bill of last Session. A copy of the book was sent to Lord Lang-dale, but he thought it would have been an impertinent obtrusion on his part, and by no means beneficial, if he had forwarded a copy to his hon. and learned Friend. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by saying that he should carefully watch the operation of the Act, and time would decide whether he was right or not in his opinion respecting it.
 Sir Edward Sugden  moved for leave to bring in "a Bill to suspend for three months, from the end of December, 1837, an Act passed last Session for amending the law relating to wills." His object in making the motion was to give the Government an opportunity of amending the Act passed during the last Session. Any amendments should, in his opinion, emanate from the Government, and he felt inclined to leave to them the introduction of such as may tend to improve the Act. He merely asked the House to grant time, in order that Government might consider what amendments were necessary, and in doing so, he would declare that he was not actuated by any feelings of party policy or personal hostility. He felt much pleasure in bearing testimony to the diligence and skill of the property Commissioners, on whose report the Bill was founded; and he also thought that Mr. Tyrrell, and a noble Lord in the other House, the Master of the Rolls, were entitled to much praise for the zeal and judgment they had displayed. Few measures had received so much attention as the one which was then under the notice of the House. It had been referred to two Committees of that House, and had been twice before the House of Lords. It had received the most calm and judicious consideration. But he still maintained that the act could not meet all the objects for which it was framed. No man was more desirous than he to see those objects carried out, and he felt how important it was to have the measure free from any objections. The most desirable object, in his opinion was to establish security for the transfer of property. The rules for this purpose were few and simple. The leading rule was to leave well alone; and he thought that legal as well as medical practitioners acted wrongly in interfering with it. Another, and very important rule was, not to run counter to the habits and general opinions of the people in making any alterations. There was, however, an instance of this in the Bill to which he referred, for there he found that no man could dispose of property personal or real, without having two witnesses to the execution of his will. Since the time of George 1st, it had been understood that personal property could
 522 523 524 525 l. 526 527 bonâ fide 528 529 530
 The Attorney-General  knew, that whatever fell from the right hon. and learned Gentleman upon any legal question was entitled to the highest consideration, and he had no doubt whatever, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had brought forward this question with the purest and most disinterested motives; but at the same time, he must say, that the course proposed to be taken by the right hon. and learned Gentleman was wholly unprecedented, and, as he thought, wholly unjustifiable. He did not complain of the want of courtesy that the right hon. and learned Gentleman gave him no notice, nor even conveyed to him any communication whatever that could afford him the most distant conception in the world of the course which the right hon. and learned Gentleman intended to pursue; but, setting that aside, he thought he might complain a little that the House should now be called upon to appoint a
 531 532 533 534 è converso. 535 536 v. 537
 Lord John Russell : Sir, it is on the passages just read from the Speech of his late Majesty, and from that of our most gracious Queen, that I propose to found the motion which I am about to bring before the House, in doing which I do not consider it necessary for me to enter into any detail of the reasons and arguments which naturally suggest themselves. I take my ground as regards this Bill, on what has been the declaration of this House in former Sessions. The first occasion on which this measure was brought directly under the notice of the House was that in which the passage appeared in the Speech of his late Majesty, wherein he expressed his hope, that we should be enabled to base the Municipal Corporations in Ireland on similar principles to those on which the Municipal Institutions of England and Scotland had been before established. That passage, which was not intended to excite, which was not framed with an idea that it would excite, opposition, did provoke disagreement in this House, and an attempt was made, on the Address in answer to the Speech being moved, to get rid of those words which declared that the "same principles" which were applicable to England and Scotland, should be applied to Ireland. It was proposed to leave out those words, and to assure his Majesty only, that they would attend to the general defects in the institutions. Though that opposition was not expected by us, yet we did state at once, and without hesitation, that we could not consent to carry an Address to the Throne which laid it down as a principle that the Irish were unfit for that liberty which the people of England and Scotland were already enjoying. On that motion the House decided, by a majority of upwards of forty, in concurrence with the Speech of his Majesty, and against that proposition of the other side of the House, which denied altogether, that popular rights and popular control, should be the principles on which the Municipal Institutions of Ireland should be founded. I will refer further to the divisions which took place in the House during the late Session, which clearly showed the determination of the House on that important subject. The first division was on the amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for a division of Lancaster (Lord F. Egerton),who proposed, that instead of regulating and improving the Municipal Corporations of Ireland, that instead of extending to them the popular principle, they should be abolished altoge-
 604 605 606 607
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he had listened with great attention to the noble Lord, anxious to learn something of the principle or details of the measure the noble Lord was about to introduce; but the noble Lord said something of the divisions of last year, a great deal about the case of Mr. Blake, and appealed to the sympathies of the hon. Gentlemen on his right for a cheer for Lord Mulgrave; but not one word about the Bill of which he had moved the first reading. The House would feel that that was not an appropriate occasion for him to discuss with the noble Lord the general condition and government of Ireland; but he could not avoid saying, in reply to the noble Lord's observations on the case of Mr. Blake, that that was not by any means selected as a sample of the various and just complaints which might be adduced against the Irish Government; but had merely been brought forward by his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Perceval) to redeem a pledge he had made to his constituents, and was of a local and personal nature. With reference to the conduct of the Irish Government, he (Mr. Shaw) would not on any proper occasion shrink from the fearless avowal and support of his opinion, in direct opposition to the praise of Lord Mulgrave, by which the noble Lord had elicited the cheers of his Irish supporters. With respect to the measure itself then under consideration, the only clue the noble Lord had given of its contents was, desiring the clerk at the table to read as well the part of the speech delivered by his late Majesty in 1836 which related to municipal corporations in Ireland, as the extract of the speech from the Throne of this Session, on the same subject, for the purpose, as he must suppose, of marking the striking distinction between them, the former having stated an objectionable principle as the foundation of the measure upon which an amendment had been moved to the address, and the House divided, whereas the latter, her present Majesty's declaration, that "the government of the cities and towns in Ireland called for better regulation," was no more than had already been affirmed by him, and those with whom he acted, in voting for the abolition of existing corporations, and pledging themselves to apply
 608 pari passu 609
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that this Bill would have the very opposite effect to what was intended by the Bill of last year, and the measure was not at all necessary for the protection of persons advancing money by way of mortgage on ships. Every person so lending money on ships had the means of knowing whether any part of the ship was already mortgaged. There was a book at Lloyd's in which every mortgage must be entered, no mortgage being valid that was not so entered, and no fee was charged for the inspection of that book. The effect of the Bill would be to prevent shipowners from mortgaging their property with the same facility as they could at present: and as the owners of ail other kinds of property; the shipowners had not been sufficiently consulted about it; still he would not oppose the motion.
 Sir R. Bateson , in seconding the motion, said he was sure that no opposition would be offered to the Bill by any hon. Member on the same side of the House as himself.
 Mr. H. Hinde  rose to call the attention of hon. Members to a subject intimately connected with the privileges of that House. He held in his hand a petition from a person named Chapman, an elector of the town of Berwick-upon-Tweed, who stated that he had given his vote in favour of the sitting Members (Mr. Holmes and Mr. Hinde), and since their return he had been waited upon by one Donald Sinclair, a solicitor in Berwick-upon-Tweed, who requested him to appear before the Committee of that House, appointed to try the merits of that election, for the purpose of giving evidence of bribery against the sitting Members, and on petitioner's stating that he could furnish no such evidence, Sinclair offered him a large sum of money to induce him to give such evidence. There could be no doubt, if the statement of the petitioner were true, that the person complained of deserved the severest penalties which the rules of the House could inflict; but he had some difficulty as to the course that
 600
 Mr. F. Baring  meant to detain the House with but a very few observations, as the legal question which arose out of the case had been completely answered by his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If the question were one purely of law, the arguments which bore upon it might be much more conveniently urged before a legal tribunal than in that House. But the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) had said, "This is a case calling for an act of peculiar grace and favour towards an officer of the House of Commons, and, as such, placed in a superior position to all other public servants—who has served you faithfully for a long series of years." He must venture to request the House to be a little cautious how they admitted that principle. He for one could not admit that those who served that House should be favoured beyond those public officers who were not equally fortunate in point of emolument or of the distinction of their position. He knew of cases of great hardship which occurred with respect to persons in public situations. He would mention one which occurred by the destruction of the Kent East Indiaman. After the occurrence of that event the officers were told that they could not receive anything more than the sum which, upon a strict calculation of their services, they were entitled to. He knew how invidious was the position of the Ministers of the Crown when the dictates of their duty required them to adhere to harsh official rule in opposition to humane and generous appeals; but he submitted to hon. Members how far it would be expedient for them, how far it would look well in the eyes of public officers or of the community, if they proclaimed this practice—"Here is a servant of our own, and we will treat him differently from other public servants. This was a case which had received much deliberation,
 626
 Mr. Colquhoun  could not but think the conduct of the Government towards the hon. and gallant Member afforded a strange contrast to their proceedings in other cases. He was ready to admit that the toast of "the Battle of the Diamond" was an ill-advised toast, and that it had even been somewhat uncalled for; but did it therefore follow that the hon. and gallant Member should, in consequence of having given it at a public dinner, without the slightest hesitation he dismissed by the Irish Government from the commission of the peace? Such treatment, at all events, savoured somewhat of sharp practice. It showed certainly a very vigilant inspection by the Irish Government of the conduct of the Irish magistracy—that they were not determined to rip up old sores, or make grievances by reviving and exacerbating of religious animosity. What, then, had
 663 664 665 666 667
 Mr. O'Connell : I am glad, I am exceedingly glad, to have the opportunity of discovering the precise spot in this House which the hon. Member dignifies with his presence. He has had a journey through Ireland, and he has brought home with him a great many stories, and a budget full—I will not say of blunders—but of mistakes; mistakes, too, of the most curious kind. A small one is, that Delany ever was a priest; it is another that his friend Delany is a respectable person; for that respectable person now lies in one of her Majesty' gaols, convicted of an atrocious assault. His excuse, indeed, is that the spirit overcame him. Yes, it was the spirit of pot-teen. Then there is, too, the notion of the hon. Member that he is acquainted with historical facts! He says that Ulster was quiet the moment that the Protestants united with the Presbyterians! Did he never hear of the battle of Antrim? Does he know that in that battle Lord O'Neill lost his life? Does he know that Antrim is in Ulster. Now, that happpened in the year 1798, and there then is his defence for peace being preserved in the north from 1797. Does he know that there was a battle fought in Down by the rebels? Did he ever hear that there was a committee of United Irishmen established in Belfast. Oh! but then said the hon. Member they were Presbyterians. What? Is he for throwing the Presbyterians overboard? I
 668 The Evening Mail The Morning Advertiser 669 670
 Mr. O'Connell : I submit, Mr. Speaker, that the hon. Member is out of order in imputing to me a share in tithe conflicts.
 Mr. O'Connell : The hon. Member knows he is safe in insulting me, but I submit, Mr. Speaker, that he is out of order in accusing me of having instigated tithe conflicts.
 Colonel Perceval  said, it was quite impossible for him to remain silent after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. He never had heard a speech more full of ungenerous declamation, and he could not congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on his good taste in comparing to a barbarian the gallant Gentleman who had given the toast of the battle of the Diamond. Such an imputation was ungenerous, he would say unmanly. Nor could be congratulate the right hon. Gentleman on the discrimination which led him to point out the company who drank the toast as inflammable firebrands, and made him blind to the dreadful consequences of the turbulent agitation set on foot by hon. Members on his own side of the House. The right hon. Gentleman could see plainly the smallest speck, nay, even imaginary specks, on the character of any hon. Gentleman who sat opposite to him, but was blind to the faults or the crimes of those who gave him their support, however dearly he might purchase it. When the right hon. Gentleman talked of the paucity of numbers on that (the Opposition) side of the House, compared with those on his side, he seemed to have forgotten the note issued from the Treasury that morning. With regard to the insinuation that he had pressed harshly the charge against Lieutenant Blake, he had understood from the noble Lord, the Secretary at War (Lord Howick,) and from the Judge Advocate-General (Mr. Fergusson,) that government would not
 682
 Lord J. Russell  thought, the allegation in the petition was matter which might fairly come before the Election Committee. If any proceedings were taken upon it at present, they would go directly to prejudice the minds of the Committee. The better course, perhaps, would be to withdraw the petition, as had been done in the case of the Bridgewater petition on Friday night.
 Lord John Russell  had stated, on a former evening, that Government had received a copy of the Report of the Commissioners on the town of Glasgow. The only reason why he had delayed presenting it to the House was, that he had acceded to a proposition of the Commissioners that their Report should be printed in Scotland, and not in this country. They had sent to him three or four printed copies of their Report, but not a sufficient number for distribution among the Members of the two Houses of Parliament. He would, that evening, give directions that the Report should be sent down to the House, and he would himself present it to-morrow. He concurred with the right hon. Baronet in thinking that, as they had the Reports of the Commissioners on the towns of Edinburgh and Glasgow, they might fairly draw an inference from the state of those towns as to the general state of church accommodation throughout Scotland
 Colonel Sibthorp  agreed with the hon. Member for Durham (Mr. Pease). The hon. Gentleman who spoke last asked what right Lord Canterbury had to any peculiar mark of favour from that House? He would answer that question by a quotation from the evidence before the Committee. Lord Canterbury, being under examination, said, "I received a letter from the present Lord Spencer, then Lord Althorp, saying that Lord Grey and his colleagues requested that, as I was returned to Parliament, I would retake the chair that Session, in order that the House should have the benefit of fifteen years' experience."
 Mr. Maclean , seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affaire in his place, took leave to ask a question relative to a petition which he had handed over to the noble Lord some time since, on the part of certain persons who had been imprisoned in Portugal. By the 4th article of the treaty, or rather the capitulation between the Portuguese, Spanish, and British Governments, when Don Carlos left Portugal, the Spanish refugees then in that country were to be guaranteed their liberty and sent to a dépôt to be provided for them, until it was found convenient to send them to some other country they might prefer. Eight hundred and thirty of those persons having surrendered themselves, they were placed in the depot, and by the severities they had suffered during their imprisonment, they were now reduced to 230. He wished to know, whether the noble Lord considered that, by the capitulation, the British Government were bound to protect those individuals, and whether he was prepared, supposing their case had been fairly stated, to interfere in their behalf.
 Mr. Litton : Sir, as one connected by residence and many other ties, with the county of Tyrone, I feel myself called upon to enter my protest at once against the version given by the noble Lord to the transactions which have taken place between him and my hon. and gallant Friend. I tell the noble Lord that such a version will not be received by the country. I tell him that there is but one sentiment pervading the mind of every independent gentleman and magistrate in Ireland respecting this transaction, and that is, a sentiment of distrust and alarm. Of alarm, because they deem that the conduct of the Irish Government has been an infringement of their privileges as magistrates, and of distrust, because they believe that the act of the Irish Government, in Col. Verner's case, has been a party act, directed and instigated by a faction, to which the Government scarcely deny they are compelled to yield obedience. Sir, with respect to the history of the Battle of the Diamond, I must totally dissent from the historical reminiscences of the noble Lord. He has culled from newspapers the speeches of Members of Parliament of that day, and from them has taken an account of the transaction favourable to his views; but he has, he must permit me to say, studiously avoided reference to every thing that deserves the name of history upon the subject. I refer him for a history of that dangerous conspiracy, in which the Defenders were actors, to the writings of that able but unfortunate man, Theobald Woulf
 671 672 The Evening Post
 Mr. Litton : And I repeat the charge. Can any man assert that the learned Member has not instigated tithe resistance?
 Mr. Litton : I shall always bow with cheerfulness and respect to the opinion of the chair; but I tell the hon. Member that I come here to do my duty, and, therefore, will not by threats or intimidation be prevented from taking that course which I conscientiously believe to be my duty. When misrepresentations are made I think it my duty to correct them, and for this reason I have endeavoured to give a true version of these transactions. I shall now read the actual words used by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and then leave the
 673 Litton
 Mr. Litton : Oh, there is no Gentleman in this House who will, I am sure, imagine that I meant to say the learned Gentleman was ever present at a tithe conflict—he takes too good care of himself for that.
 Sir E. Sugden : I never referred to chairs or sofas at all.
 Sir E. Sugden  hoped that the fears of the hon. Member for Bridport with regard to his clients' chance of compensation would not be further entertained after that night's discussion, and that he would be persuaded that the Treasury was fully competent to meet that as well as the present claim. At all events, he thought that the reasoning of the hon. Gentleman was somewhat singular, and tended to press personally and severely on Lord Canterbury, to whom, every Member of that House was deeply indebted for his impartiality and courtesy in performing the duties of Speaker. The hon. Gentleman asked whether it was intended that the present motion should be considered as a matter of favour. Why, no man doubted that this claim to compensation was urged as a matter of favour. No one rested it on the ground of absolute right. His hon. and learned Friend who introduced the motion showed how the legal right would have existed, and how very nice a point it was to say whether, in point of law, Lord Canterbury was not entitled to compensation. He gave the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, full credit for entertaining the feelings which he had expressed with regard to Lord Canterbury; and he could not help thinking that the course which the right hon. Gentleman took was dictated rather by his sense of the duty which devolved on him in his present position than by his own intimate conviction. He thought it was most unreasonably feared that this case might be drawn into a precedent. The offices of other public servants were not at all analogous to that which the Speaker of that House filled. He put it to every hon. Member in that House whether there did not exist a feeling of generosity towards the man who was placed in the exalted position of Chairman of the congregated Representatives of the people; whether there was not, in fact, an acknowledged title to favour and consideration in the case of such a man to which no other public officer could possibly pretend. He was persuaded, therefore, that if this claim were acceded to as a matter of grace, it would never lead to inconvenience as a precedent. Much stress had been laid on the allowance made to Mr. Bellamy by the
 623
 Mr. Shaw  rose principally for the purpose of referring to a letter which he had received within the last few days from a clergyman of the county of Wexford, in
 674 675
 Mr. Shaw : Because the letter of Mr. Drummond was couched in such terms, that in the answer to it no man of spirit and independent feeling could have condescended to enter into an explanation hut what were the facts, as his hon. and gallant Friend had stated that night? His hon. and gallant Friend, at a dinner given to his private friends, not having intended to give the toast in question (the expediency or propriety of the toast itself he was not then discussing), not having had it upon his list of toasts—but at a late hour, when the principal part of the company had retired, there being present an old Gentleman who had been engaged in that battle of self-defence and necessity, on the part of the Protestants—and the opposite party being (he aggressors, as admitted by the noble Lord (Lord Morpeth,) his hon. and gallant Friend, as a compliment to that old gentleman, gave his health coupled with the battle of the Diamond, at which he had distinguished himself by his personal bravery. Colonel Verner was removed; the Wexford magistrate (to say nothing of hundreds of similar cases) continues. And this then was adduced as a proof of that equal and impartial justice to Ireland—that holding of an even balance between contending parties, which they were told, forsooth! distinguished the present Irish Government from all others that had ever administered the affairs of that country. The noble Lord (Lord Morpeth) in his speech had certainly committed plagiarisms very largely from speeches made in the Irish Parliament. Those speeches no doubt expressed in very glowing terms, the party sentiments of the individuals who made them, in a warm party debate. And it was competent to the noble Lord now to quote them as expressing his own, but to rely upon them as historical proof, or in
 676 677 "Still it shall be in Ireland A toast for ever more"— 678
 Mr. Warburton  entirely agreed with the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He adhered to the ground which he had taken last Session in opposition to the present motion, and that was, that the House of Commons should not show greater favour to Lord Canterbury than they would be disposed to do to any other individual. He thought they were disposed to act in the manner which he had pointed out; at least he was of that opinion last Session; and from the papers laid before the House he was inclined to form the opinion that the Members of the House of Commons and of the Government—he meant the Government of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel)—took that unfair view of the subject. He alluded to circumstances which came incidentally before the House in an appendix to the report of the Committee which investigated this case. He must say that if any one transaction deserved to be characterised by the name of a downright job, that to which he was about to refer came under that designation. It appeared that after the fire had taken place, and that the whole house of the Speaker was in a dilapidated state, an application had been made by Lord Canterbury the Treasury to purchase eight chairs, two screens, and two sofas, for the sum of 500 guineas, that he had given for them. These eight chairs, two screens, and two sofas had been purchased from Lord Gwydyr, who claimed them as a perquisite, because at the coronation of his Majesty George the 4th, that monarch had slept in that House the day preceding his coronation, and this event, by some old grant, bestowed the property on the individual who held the office which
 621 necprece necpretio, 622
 The Speaker  thought the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Litton) was out of order.
 The Speaker  again intimated to Mr. Litton that he was out of order.
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. and gallant Member must feel that he was bound to confine himself to that language which was fit and proper to be addressed to the House itself, and, therefore, when the hon. and gallant Member said that he would use language that was lit for a Member to use towards the House, but that be would leave it to the imagination of any hon. Member to supply oilier terms than those that were fit and proper to be used, the hon. and gallant Member must feel that he was exceeding the limit which was permitted to Members in the use of language in that House.
 The Speaker  observed, that the hon. and gallant Member must know that language used by any hon. Member which was not fit to be addressed to another was an offence, not only to the individual, but to the House. He hoped the hon. and gallant Member would at once say, that he intended by what had fallen from him to limit himself to the use of those expressions which were proper to be addressed to the House itself.
 The Speaker  rose, and expressed a hope that the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Verner,) must now be entirely satisfied that the right hon. Gentleman had no in-
 687
 Mr. John Ellis  said, that it was with great sincerity he assured the House that there were certain circumstances which compelled him to forego any feeling of reluctance that he might have otherwise entertained to add to the length of this debate, and which induced him to offer a few observations upon the subject matter then under its consideration. During the late general election, and on his way through Newry, it happened that he became, for the first time, acquainted with
 683
 Mr. Hume  should be glad to know, then, why the right hon. and learned Gentleman had at all reflected on the course of argument pursued by his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend had adduced a case which, in his opinion, was an apt illustration of Tory jobbing, and which certainly called for explanation from the noble Lord opposite (Lord G. Somerset) who was Commissioner of Woods and Forests under the Administration of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. He did not blame Lord Canterbury for getting what he could; but he considered the conduct of the noble Lord opposite highly censurable in promising five hundred guineas for five old chairs and three old screens, in order that they might be retained until a new Speaker was appointed, and a new House built. The case which his hon. Friend had laid before them was the most arrant job which had ever come under his knowledge. He had assisted in raking up many jobs in that House, but he ventured to say that a more disgraceful one than that which had been that night submitted was never yet disclosed. The Government of Lord Melbourne presented in this instance a strong contrast to that of the right hon. Member for Tamworth, in as mach as it demonstrated how anxious the existing administration was not to yield to the claim
 624 in forma pauperis, l l l
 Mr. Hume  was rather surprised to hear the right hon. and learned Gentleman complain of the allusion which his hon. Friend (Mr. Warburton) had made to the purchase by the late Speaker of the eight chairs and the two sofas.
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that some reason would be assigned for such a motion.
 Mr. Jackson , said, he trusted that his gallant Friend would feel quite satisfied after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. No Gentleman could expect more from another than saying he did not mean any personal offence.
 Mr. Pease  was convinced, by much consideration of this case, he ought to support a proposition similar to that which was now submitted; and, under all its circumstances, he saw no reason for changing that opinion. He was not swayed by feelings of private friendship or by the recollection of hospitality. He had never partaken of the one or received the other; and the view which he felt bound to take, in opposition to those with whom he generally acted, was founded upon a sense of justice, and of the propriety of the course which he adopted, if called for in a case in which he was himself personally interested.
 Mr. Robert Steuart  said, that after what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member he scarcely felt that he had any right to interfere in this matter; yet as no other hon. Member had risen, he thought he should not be acting improperly by declaring it to be his opinion that his right hon. Friend beside him might as well at once state that in the expression he used he did not mean to say anything personally offensive to the hon. and gallant Member; again, that hon. and gallant Member stating that he also, in the language he had used, did not mean to say anything personally offensive to his right hon. Friend.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would have been satisfied to have left this question to the House, with the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, but for one observation which had fallen from an hon. Member, and he must say, he thought in bad taste, as to the conduct of the officers of Government, When the hon. and gallant Colonel put any portion of his conduct in issue, he put the whole of it in issue, and the whole question was before the House. With respect to the suggestion that it was unjust to refer to past transactions, in which the hon. and gallant Colonel was concerned, he would ask, whether it was not also unjust or cruel to refer to other acts committed by another hon. Member long ago, and which were not acts done by him in his capacity of a magistrate? He thought, that the hon. and gallant Colonel had suffered enough from the castigation he received on a former occasion. He almost fancied he heard the hon. and gallant Member exclaim, " el tu Brute!" tu quoque 679 680 681
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was at all times painful to interpose any difficulties in the way of a grant, but it was particularly unpleasant in the case of the noble Lord, at whose hands, during the many years he had presided over the deliberations of that House, he had had so many opportunities of experiencing kindness. His feelings of respect towards the late Speaker, were felt by other Members of that House, and on. their behalf, as well as his own, he protested against any inference that might be drawn as to those feelings from the vote which he, for one, and others believed themselves bound to give on this question. If it had been a question of regard—if it had been a question of voting this money to the late Speaker, independently of the principle involved in it, he, for one, should have been happy to have had an opportunity of agreeing in the motion. But the question was, whether, upon the facts set forth in evidence, the House would be warranted in granting the sum of public money claimed? His hon. and learned Friend,
 616 617 l l 618 619 620
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should be happy to repeat that which he actually did say, and then submit himself to the judgment of the House, and the deliberate judgment of the hon. and gallant Officer, having nothing to explain, and still less anything to retract. In the course of his speech he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) observed, by way of a general proposition, that those who quoted history, not for the purpose of extracting useful lessons from its pages, but for the purpose of exasperating the feelings and exciting the animosities of party by making their guilty deeds subjects of commendation and praise, were like those who poisoned wells or scattered firebrands among inflammable materials. That was what he had stated, and what he would repeat. If be thought he had said anything that was calculated, he would not say to insult the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but to give him a moment's pain, or had used language which was unbecoming in one Gentleman to use towards another, he should be perfectly ready to recant, to explain, to apologise in any way in which any Gentleman could explain, retract, or apologise. But he had no self-reproach in that respect; he felt upon his honour that he had given no just cause of offence, and, therefore, he had no explanation to give, no retraction to make.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that if an objection were taken to the proposition on the matter of principle, then that would be the proper time for the discussion; but if the objection were only to the amount of the vote, then they might go at once into Committee and consider what that amount ought to be. He for one was prepared to say this, that after due inquiry, after the evidence that had been given, and after an attentive consideration of the report which he held in his hand, he had come to the conclusion that there was an insuperable objection to the principle for which the hon. Member contended, and he was prepared to oppose the Speaker leaving the chair. Entertaining such an opinion, he considered that the discussion ought then to be proceeded with.
 Major Macnamara  said, that some opinion might be formed of the state of the law at the time of the "Battle of the Diamond "—a period at which he had himself been on military duty in the county of Armagh—from the fact of there having been written on the church doors," To Hell and Connaught with every Papist," &c, on a certain day.
 Colonel Verner  said, he was very ready and willing to make any apology in his power to the House, but he must say, that he considered the language used by the right hon. Gentleman was an insult to him, and he also conceived that it was an insult to the House.
 Colonel Verner  said, that it was not his intention to occupy much of their time by a reply. The noble Lord had stated, that he had been unable to give the Irish Government a satisfactory answer; but this was not the ease, as he should have felt happy to have given the Irish Government the explanation which he had that night given to that House. He was absent when Mr. Drummond's letter was received; but even if he had seen it at the moment, it was such a letter as, on consideration, he should have found it wholly impossible to comply with. He had acted for thirty-three years as a magistrate, both in his own county and in the county of Armagh, and he would defy the noble Lord, or any one else, to show a single instance in which he had acted unjustly towards either Roman Catholic or any one else. He had many Roman Catholic tenants, and he did not think any of them would be found to say that he had ever in his life acted harshly towards any of them. With respect to the observations which had been made about the toast of "The Buttle of the Diamond," all he could say was that he should be greatly obliged to the Government if they would institute proceedings against him on that ground, because he well knew he would be acquitted on it. He was conscious he had always discharged his duty uprightly and honestly, but (said the hon. and gallant Officer) I must be permitted to say, that the language used towards me by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was not only uncalled for but wholly undeserved. I am obliged to my hon. and gallant Friend, the Member for Sligo, for the manly way in which he has stood up to defend me; but when the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, charges me with "scattering firebrands to excite an inflammable population, and poisoning wells," I feel myself called upon to repel such a charge with the indignation which it deserves, and there is no language which the rules of the House will admit me to use, which I do not use in giving it my flat contradiction and denial. Sir, there is no word which the English language supplies which I do not intend to use to express my indignant and just contradiction and denial, and I repel the charge of my having "scattered firebrands or poisoned wells," utterly, and declare that I never did any thing of the kind in the whole course of my life, nor do I believe any one who knows me would believe me capable of such conduct. I repeat, Sir, that
 685 Cries of Order and Chair
 Colonel Verner  expressed a hope that he had not made use of any language which was unbecoming in him to use towards the House.
 Colonel Verner  rose and said: The indulgence of this House has always been manifested towards any one of its Members who had anything of a personal nature to complain of. Encouraged by this generous and always conceded indulgence, I come forward reluctantly to trespass upon its time and crave its attention, while I endeavour to relieve myself from the temporary stigma cast upon my character and conduct, which, if merited, would render me unworthy of addressing you from this place, and unfit me for the high honour conferred upon me y those whom I represent here. Inadequate as I am to the task, and embarrassed as I feel, I am obliged thus early to force myself upon the kind consideration of the House, in order that it may be enabled to judge whether I am deserving the imputation made, and the punishment inflicted, without a trial; and whether I shall be able to vindicate myself before it and those friends who are eagerly and anxiously waiting the result, as well as the public. I cannot expect to make any impression by force of language or powers of oratory. My defence is a simple statement of facts, supported by incontrovertible documents. My crime and that of my family is a steady and undeviating attachment to, and support of, our invaluable constitution in church and state. Throughout a long life of public service I have never swerved from these principles; and I am bold to say that, even at the risk of incurring the still stronger censure of the Irish government and its advisers, I do not think I ever shall. I am fully sensible of the awkwardness of my position, but I hope my friends will find that the few topics to which I shall advert will not add to it. Sir, I need hardly remind the House that I have been lately deprived by the Irish government, of the deputy-lieutenancy of the county of Tyrone, and
 634 635 "Dublin Castle, August 22,1837. "Sir—It appearing in  The Newry Telegraph, "T. DRUMMOND. "To Lieut.-Colonel Verner, Churchill, Moy." "Carlton Club, London, Aug. 29, 1837. "Sir,—I have received a letter, dated August 22, bearing your signature, and inquiring of me, by the direction of his Excellency, 'whether it is possible that I was a party to the commemoration of a lawless and most disgraceful conflict, in which much of the blood of my fellow-subjects was spilt, and the immediate consequence of which was, as testified at the time by all the leading men and magistrates of your county, to place that part of the country at the mercy of an ungovernable mob?' "I am disposed to think that, when you put a question in a form like this, you can hardly expect, on cool reflection, that I should condescend to answer it—at least, I would ima-
 636 "His Excellency seems to assume that the appearance of a statement in a public newspaper authorises a call upon me to contradict or confirm it. I do not feel myself at liberty to do either. I had the honour to entertain several of my friends at dinner on the day to which your letter refers. I am bold to affirm, that at that entertainment nothing took place which loyal and honourable men would hesitate to avow most frankly: But I speak, I am confident, the sentiments of my friends, and of every gentleman whose freedom is not restrained by official station, when I say that a question like this in your letter ought not to be proposed to me, and that I am bound to decline replying to it." "Upon the various misrepresentations, unintentional I have no doubt, which your letter contains, I have no desire to comment. I feel it necessary only to assure you that, of all the conflicts, and they are, unhappily, numerous, which took place at any of the various places called by the name of 'Diamond,' in the county of Armagh, there is none to which your description is, in the least degree, applicable." "Dublin Castle, Sept. 5, 1837. "Sir,—I have had the honour of submitting to the Lord-Lieutenant your letter of the 29th ult. "His Excellency regrets that you should have had any difficulty in understanding the
 637 "As a magistrate, appointed to administer justice between her Majesty's Protestant and Roman Catholic subjects, his Excellency desired that you should be called upon to state whether, at an election dinner, of which an account appeared at length in a public paper, you had proposed, or been a party to the proposal of, a toast commemorative of a sanguinary feud between the Protestants and Roman Catholics of Armagh. By whom, or to whom, that dinner was given—on what occasion, or in what place—his Excellency considers a matter of comparative indifference; but, as head of the executive government in Ireland, it concerns him to know whether you and other gentlemen in the commission held up such an event as that known by the name of 'The Battle of the Diamond,' as one deserving of being commemorated. "You profess yourself unable to recognise the conflict alluded to under the above title, by reason of the many such conflicts which have unhappily occurred in the county of Armagh, at places called by the name of the Diamond." "I feel it necessary only to assure you, that of all the conflicts which took place at any of the various places called Diamond, in the county Armagh, there is none to which your description is, in the least degree, applicable." 638 "It is the invariable practice, when any representation is made to Government affecting the character or usefulness of a magistrate or other public officer, for whose appointment or continuance the executive government is responsible, to communicate such representation to him before any proceedings are taken thereon, that he may have an opportunity of explaining or disavowing the statements made to his prejudice. That course was followed in the present instance, and his Excellency conceives that he had a right to expect a distinct and unequivocal avowal or disavowal of your having been a party to the proceeding in question, or a satisfactory explanation that the nature and tendency of the proceeding did not deserve the character imputed to it!" 639 640 "At a time when the ambitious projects of our enemies have threatened to interrupt the happiness and prosperity of his people by making a descent on this kingdom and Great Britain, his Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct an addition to be made to the regular troops in this kingdom by troops sent from Great Britain, the greater part of which is already arrived; and, in pursuance of his Majesty's commands, I have also encouraged the loyalty and zealous disposition which has generously displayed itself to associate in arms for the better security of property and the preservation of tranquillity and good order." "Whereas we have observed with much concern that great pains have been taken, in many parts of this country, to excite discontent among his Majesty's faithful subjects, thereby to alienate their affections from his person and Government, and to induce them to be willing to change our excellent free constitution for the system of anarchy and con-
 641 "And whereas we have reason to believe that such miscreants have carried their wickedness so far as to hold treasonable correspondence with the French, with whom his Majesty is now at open war, to invite them to invade this kingdom, and, as an encouragement, have held out the following audacious falsehood, viz., that his Majesty's subjects in this kingdom are ready to rebel against him, and to adopt their principles; and that a few, seduced by the emissaries of the French, through the management of a desperate and traitorous society, have bound themselves by oaths to be ready in furtherance of their purposes in case of invasion, either to join them, or to rise and take possession of our country and the property of its peaceable inhabitants: "Now we, whose names are hereunto subscribed, sincerely attached to our most excellent constitution, sensible of the benefits we enjoy under the mild Government of our most gracious Sovereign, and of the present prosperous state of the country—prosperous to a degree heretofore unexampled—where wealth and comfort are sure to follow honest industry—unwilling to put at hazard these solid advantages—and abhorrent of the machinations of a set of desperate adventurers, who, without property themselves, aim at that of others, and hope to rise in wealth and consequence in a general confusion, "Resolve,—That we will, at the hazard of our lives and fortunes, support and defend our gracious King George the Third against all foreign and domestic enemies. "That we will discourage and oppose all treasonable and seditious practices, and resist all attempts to disturb the peace of the country; and further, should his Majesty, in his wisdom, require such exertion, that we will embody ourselves for his defence and for the protection of our lives and properties, and enrol ourselves under such officers as he shall commission, and with their assistance, and under their command, will train and discipline ourselves, so as to be able to render him the more effectual service, and frustrate the hopes of the traitors and banditti who vainly rely upon finding the country naked and defenceless, should the regular troops be drawn off to oppose an invading enemy."
 Colonel Verner  said, he should be sorry not to express himself perfectly satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, after the observation of his hon. and learned Friend; but he could not avoid saying that the language used by the right hon. Gentleman was language to which he had not been accustomed, and appearing to come directly from the right hon. Gentleman to himself, was such as he ought not to suffer under.
 Sir F. Pollock  would then shortly relate to the House the circumstances under which Lord Canterbury sustained losses to the amount of several thousand pounds. During the whole time that that noble Lord
 612 613 c s 614 615
 Sir F. Pollock  had, he said, no objection to state it at any length which the hon. Member might wish. The reason why he did not at once state the reasons for submitting his motion was, that he did not wish to make the matter the subject of a double debate. If it were, however, the general sense of the House, he should proceed to the discussion; though he should prefer the House resolving itself into a Committee.
 Sir F. Pollock , who had given notice of his intention to call the attention of the House to the Report of the "Select Committee on the losses of the late Speaker and officers of the House by fire of the Houses of Parliament," with a view to give effect to their claims on the consideration of the House, said, he was about to move that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House; but he should, if ii, were necessary, state the case then upon which he meant to rely. He did not wish, however, to occupy the time of the House unnecessarily, and he should, therefore, move that they resolve themselves into a Committee of the whole House. When in Committee it was his intention to move for an Address to her Majesty, praying for compensation to the late Speaker and other officers for losses sustained by the burning of the Houses of Parliament.
 Sir Robert Bateson  said, that it not only struck him, but many Friends near him, that the language used by the right hon. Gentleman was most personally offensive. It was certainly harsh language, and he must also say offensive: he hoped, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman would at least tell his gallant Friend that be did not mean it in that sense in which it had been understood by him and his Friends around him.
 Sir Robert Peel  must, in the first place, state his sincere conviction that the opposition given by her present Majesty's Government to the present motion was free from the alloy of any political feeling, but that it was offered under the impression that imperative duty required them to act as they had done. He was desirous of removing a prejudice to the consideration of this claim which was attempted to be raised by the hon. Member for Bridport. The consideration of that point had nothing whatever to do with the matter properly before the House; but as the hon. Member had thought proper to attach to it the epithet "job," and, as if this term applied, he was, as forming part of the administration when the transaction took place, more or less implicated in it, he begged the indulgence of the House for a few moments while he endeavoured to place it in its true light. Previously to the coronation of George 4th, certain rooms connected with the Houses of Parliament, being royal property and furnished by the Crown, were attached to the official residence of the Speaker, and were by him used as reception rooms for the House of Commons when they visited him. They did not in the slightest degree contribute to the comfort of the Speaker; but on state occasions were, as well as the furniture, used by him when holding levees. During the coronation of George the 4th, these rooms were occupied by the Crown, and upon its conclusion the Great Chamberlain
 627 virtute officii, 628 629
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to put a question to the noble Lord (John Russell), on a subject on which great anxiety was felt, particularly in that portion of the United Kingdom which took more especial interest in it—he meant the subject of the Church of Scotland. Some months ago, indeed he might say years ago, a Commission was appointed by the Government to inquire into the state of Church accommodation in Scotland, and into the means of affording religious instruction to the people of that country. One Report had been already made by the members of that Commission. He thought that he understood the noble Lord, on a former night, to say, that another Report, completing the inquiry into the condition of Glasgow, had been recently received by the Government. He trusted that the general inquiry of the Commissioners was then so far advanced, that Parliament might shortly have the advantage of the whole of their important labours before it. The particular question which he wished to put to the noble Lord, had reference to the condition of Glasgow, for he could not help thinking that if they had the Report of the Commissioners on two such important towns as those of Edinburgh and Glasgow, they might take a tolerably comprehensive view of the whole subject of church accommodation in Scotland, and that any measures which might be wanted, needed not to be deferred from the incompleteness of the inquiry. He understood the noble Lord, on a former occasion, to say that the Report on the state of Glasgow, had been actually presented to him; and he, therefore, could not refrain from expressing his earnest hope that the noble Lord would present, as soon as possible, to the House that Report, along with the evidence on which it was founded. It was a subordinate reason for presenting that Report as speedily as possible to the House that a Committee had recently been appointed to inquire into the state of the poor, so far as regarded their
 602
 The Solicitor-General  was glad to perceive, from the speech of the right hon. Baronet who had preceded him, that the question of right in the case under consideration was abandoned, and that it now stood in the only position it could reasonably present itself, namely, as an appeal to the generosity of the House. In this point of view, he was willing to enter upon its consideration; and having said so much, and dissenting entirely from the position of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, that Parliament had no right to be generous, he expected a favourable construction would be put upon his words when he stated, that upon this very ground of generosity, he felt bound to oppose the proposition under discussion. It was a very easy thing to be generous with other people's money; but he feared the public would be a little suspicious of the disinterestedness of the House, should they find that a different measure of justice was dealt out to Lord Canterbury, on the ground that he was a servant of the House, than that which the Government was almost every day, on equally, if not better founded cases, meting to humbler individuals. The right hon. Baronet had asked them, how they would individually act if the case of Lord Canterbury was the case of their private steward? Certainly, before he allowed his generosity to act, he should ask himself, had his servant done that which it
 630
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had himself intimated, and indeed his speech of this evening had made further provision that sufficient publicity was already attached to these transactions; and he might also observe that some vacancies which met his eyes in the benches opposite seemed to say that there were others who entertained this opinion. He had no objection to the production of the papers for which the hon. and gallant. Gentleman had moved; but he hoped he should be allowed to make a few comments on the observations with which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had accompanied his motion. In the first place, however, he begged to declare that at the present moment, as well as at the period of the transaction itself, he experienced sincere regret at having been put in a situation in which he felt himself called on to act in a manner that might seem ungracious and harsh towards a Gentleman for whose personal honour and whose conduct in all the relations of private life he had always been led to form a high estimate. So much as to what was merely personal between them. He would now address himself to the question itself. As regarded the Battle of the Diamond, the
 650 The Dublin Evening Post, 651 "What did you see at the Diamond?—When I got up I saw the Defenders making off in one direction, and the filing had nearly teased, I may say had ceased except a dropping shot or two, and I saw a number of dead bodies. "Can you slate about the number?—No: they were conveying them away on cars in different directions, so that I could not make an exact calculation. "Were there fifty?—No; if there were thirty killed, that was the outside. "Were there any Protestants killed?—Not that I could hear of." "Satis jam pridem sanguine nostro Laomedoiuæ luimus perjuria Trojæ." 652 "There has been gross misconception (the letter of Colonel Verner shows it) respecting the event which it commemorated. The individual who dictated that letter was ignorant of the history of the country. An aged and veteran general officer has slated the true history of the transaction, and it would appear to have been a gallant and successful resistance by a body of Protestants to an attack by a body of Defenders." "FIRST MEETING OF THE MAGISTRATES OF THE COUNTY OF ARMAGH, OCT. 19, 1795. "Whereas the peace of this county has been, and continues to be, disturbed by mobs of riotous and disorderly persons, who assemble in considerable bodies, attack the houses of well-disposed inhabitants, and rob them of arms, money, and other matters of properly." "SECOND MEETING, OCT. 26, 1795. "As we find that bodies of armed men still continue to parade through different parts of this country, both by day and night, committing great outrages, and disturbing the peaceable inhabitants." Resolutions signed and subscriptions entered into, by GOSFORD, WILLIAM ARMAGH, the Primate, 653 CHARLEMONT, CAPEL MOLYNEUX, W. BROWNLOW, H. HAMLTON, Dean of Armagh, after Bishop of Ossory, W. BISSETT, after Bishop of Raphoe, JAMES VERNER (it is stated), &c, &c, &c. "Gentlemen,—It is no secret that a persecution, accompanied with all the circumstances of ferocious cruelly which have, in all ages, distinguished the dreadful calamity, is now raging in this county. Neither age nor sex, nor even acknowledged innocence, as to any guilt in the late disturbances, is sufficient to excite mercy, much less to afford protection. The only crime which the wretched objects of this ruthless persecution are charged with is a crime, indeed, of easy proof; it is simply a profession of the Roman Catholic faith, or an intimate connexion with a. person professing that faith. A lawless banditti have constituted themselves judges of this new species of delinquency, and the sentence they have pronounced is equally concise and terrible; 'tis nothing less than a confiscation of all property, and an immediate banishment. It would be extremely painful, and surely unnecessary, to detail the horrors that attend the execution of so wide and tremendous a proscription—a proscription that certainly exceeds in the comparative number of those it consigns to ruin and misery every example that ancient or modern history can supply; for where have we heard, or in what history of human cruelties have we read, of more than half the inhabitants of a populous country, deprived at one Mow, of the means as well as the fruits of their industry, and driven, in the midst of an inclement season, to seek a shelter for themselves and their helpless families, where chance may guide them.'' 654 "Of these outrages, he had received the most dreadful accounts; that their object was the extermination of all the Catholics of that county. It was a persecution conceived in the bitterness of bigotry, carried on with the most ferocious barbarity, by a banditti who, being of the religion of the state, had committed with the greatest audacity and confidence the most horrid murders, and had proceeded from robbery and massacre to extermination: that they had repealed, by their own authority, all the laws lately passed in favour of the Catholics, and had established in the place of those laws, the inquisition of a mob resembling Lord George Gordon's fanatics, equalling them in outrage, and surpassing far in perseverance and success; that their modes of outrage were as various as they were atrocious. They sometimes forced, by terror, the masters of families, to dismiss their Catholic servants: they sometimes forced landlords, by terror, to dismiss their Catholic tenantry. They seized, as deserters, numbers of Catholic weavers, sent them to the county gaol, transmitted them to Dublin, where they remained in close prison until some lawyers, from compassion, pleaded their cause and had procured their enlargement, nothing appearing against them of any kind whatsoever. Those insurgents, who called themselves Orange boys, or Protestant boys, that is, a banditti of murderers, committing massacre in the name of God, and exercising despotic power, in the name of Liberty." "He could not reconcile it to himself to remain silent at the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grattan) of the outrages which had occurred in the county of Armagh, He was sorry to say, he must subscribe to it in its fullest" extent. He lamented that, in that picture which the right hon. Gentleman had drawn, he could trace no exaggeration. ft was, he feared, the melancholy truth that numbers of the unoffending and peaceable inhabitants of that county had been expelled from their habitations and their property by the violence of a bigoted sect; that there existed in that county, a furious and unrelenting persecution of a particular denomination of his Majesty's loyal subjects. Idle and nugatory would be good dispositions on the part of the Government as long as they continue to be counteracted by those who must be employed to carry them into effect. It is
 655 "He was persuaded that Government would never prefer one treason to another, or use less severity towards the bigotry and excess of Break-of-day-Boys than towards the equally abominable outrages of Defenders. He bad heard it insinuated, on both sides of the House, that though Defenderism might call for the extraordinary interposition of the Legislature, yet the opposite class of insurgents might be left to the vigilance of Armagh magistrates, and to the ordinary efficacy of the law, as already established. To such a doctrine he must express entire dissent. He viewed both species of offence with equal abhorrence, and thought the Legislature ought to meet them with equal indignation." 656 "That by order of the Government, who were determined to exert their power to the utmost, in order to restore and preserve the peace of the country, he was come down to prosecute, and he would have it understood that, in the exercise of this his indispensable duty, he would steadily pursue his instructions, which were to prosecute all men charged with crimes; of whatever religious profession they might be—of whatever description—whether in high or in low life—he would bring them to the bar of public justice. What has recently been the situation of Armagh? Man against man; societies formed for the illegal purpose of opposing each other by open force and hostility. The honest and peaceable inhabitant could find neither safety nor repose. In the field and in the house he found himself in danger; he could not retire to his bed without apprehension of violation to his house or injury to his person. Was there a father of a family secure in his children? He did not know the moment that his son was destined to the halter or the assassin's dagger. There was neither security for age nor youth, for sex nor for industry." "Acts had been committed shocking to human nature; cruelties that would disgrace savages had been perpetrated in the county of Armagh. Perhaps these acts had been exaggerated on both sides; but, taking them on the mildest representation, they called for the immediate interference of law and exertions of justice. With whom those enormities commenced he considered as immaterial, for both parties were aggressors against the law, and both must suffer; however, when the law was satisfied, it would then become a national object, a duty incumbent on every man who loved his country, to inculcate on the minds of all parties forgiveness and oblivion." 657 "The disturbances were such as every man laments, and no man would justify; but where after all they were only the disturbances of individuals among themselves, great in their extent and melancholy in their circumstances, but originating only in private and personal antipathies. Those individuals were the adverse parties of Puritans and Papists; that is, certain obstinate Roman Catholics on the one side, and various sectaries, perhaps more obstinate still, under the name of Presbyterians, on the other. From the unhappy temper of the times, which seems so prevalent every where, could it be a matter of wonder that in the north such combustible materials should kindle a warmth, especially when contiguous to each other in the same neighbourhood, and blaze into outrage without what the right honourable Gentleman was pleased to call the cruel connivance of the government? But how did this connivance appear? Had assistance ever been asked, and had it been withheld? No. Had means of prevention ever been pointed out, and had they been
 658 659 660 661 "I am further of opinion, that Colonel Verner appears not to have performed his duty as a magistrate at Verner's-bridge, in order to disperse (as he was bound and required by law), the persons there tumultuously and unlawfully assembled, and compel them to depart to their habitations; that he did net take the measures and precautions proper for that purpose, which he was empowered and required by law to take, and which the result evinces to have been necessary for the preservation of the peace, and the threatened breach thereof; and that he is liable to be prosecuted at suit of the Crown by information for such (as it appears to me) criminal neglect of his duty." Shaw: 662
 Viscount Morpeth  was quite sure that his right hon. Friend did not use any language which he was not justified in using. He conceived that his right hon.
 686
 Lord Morpeth : Why did not the gallant Colonel explain them in his answer to Mr. Drummond?
 Viscount Palmerston  was not prepared to admit that those parties were, under the fair and proper construction of those articles, entitled to be set free. It was the duty of the Portuguese Government to detain them as prisoners until they were exchanged for prisoners taken by the Carlists. At the same time, it was the duty of Go-
 601
 Mr. William Smith O'Brien  rose, pursuant to notice, to present a petition, which he believed was somewhat of a novel nature, but not more unprecedented than the circumstances out of which it had arisen. The existence of an election subscription Fund carried on for several months in England and Scotland was a matter of public notoriety, although it had not yet been alluded to in that House. It appeared to him, that a subscription professedly raised for the purpose of encouraging the presentation of petitions—
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  rose to order. He would be the last to interfere between any hon. Member and the right to present any petition he thought proper to that House; but he understood, on the authority of the chair, a rule had been adopted by mutual consent of both sides of the House, that no discussion whatever should take place on the presentation of petitions.
 688
 The Speaker  said, the question had undoubtedly been submitted to the consideration of the House, and whatever rule existed was founded upon the authority of the House. There was a discussion announced for this very evening with reference to the subject matter of the petition, and, therefore, the hon. Member would probably think, that he would not only satisfy the rules of the House, but also meet the full justice of the case, by stating merely the substance of the case. Any argument on the merits of the petition would most appropriately be given in the course of the evening.
 Mr. O'Brien  was quite ready to comply with the suggestion which had been thrown out. He was not disposed to enter into any argument on the subject; but it appeared to him, that under the particular circumstances of the case, he should adopt a legitimate and constitutional mode of bringing the matter before the House in the shape of a petition, considering himself aggrieved by the conduct of an hon. Baronet, a Member of that House, subscribing to a fund, having for its object the encouragement of petitions against the due return of hon. Members to that House, and among others, of himself for Limerick; and therefore he hoped he should be allowed—he believed he had a right—to read the petition at length.
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member might state the substance of the petition, but the rule of the House was, that he must not read the petition at length.
 Mr. O'Brien  would then merely move, in the first instance, that the petition be brought up.
 Sir E. Sugden  rose to order. He submitted that the course which had been adopted on the present occasion, was altogether a novel proceeding. He had no wish to prevent the sentiments or opinions of any hon. Member being given fully to the House and the country upon any question of public or private interest. He simply rose to submit the question whether this petition should be received, it being the petition of the Member himself who presented it, on a question which concerned a public grievance.
 Mr. O'Brien  said, he brought the matter forward as a matter of private grievance. He approached the House in the character of an aggrieved party. He complained of an hon. Baronet, a Member of that House, subscribing to a fund, having for its object to deprive him among others of his seat; and he did not see how the circumstance of his being a Member of that House should deprive him of that right of complaint which belonged to every other subject of her Majesty.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that the hon. Member had not opened the case as one of private grievance. At all events, this course, if adopted, would occasion a very
 690
 Mr. Lambton  could not but think it an act of great presumption on the part of the right hon. and learned Gentleman to interfere when the clerk was reading the petition, the Speaker having expressed his opinion in favour of its being read.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was sure the hon. Gentleman had made a charge of presumption against his right hon. and learned Friend which was wholly untenable. The hon. Member was under a misconception. When a Member presented a petition and required that it should be read, as a matter of courtesy it was usual to have it read. That was the extent to which the rule had hitherto been carried. But the question was in the present instance greatly affected by the fact that the petitioner was the hon. Member himself, petitioning on his own part, and complaining of a public grievance. If it were a private grievance of which he complained, by which he was likely to suffer, his right hon. and learned Friend would not have urged his objection.
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, his hon. Friend, (Mr. O'Brien) had distinctly stated that he complained of a private grievance; but after the letter written by the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Wiltshire, (Sir F. Burdett) he was disposed to think the matter should have been treated as a direct breach of privilege. There could be no doubt of the hon. Member's right to have the petition read at length.
 Mr. Wakley  said, he would be glad to learn from the Speaker the course which ought to be pursued on this occasion. The hon. Member below him, in introducing the petition by a few remarks, was interrupted by the right hon. Baronet opposite, and the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair then directed him to state the substance of the petition. But, not content with stating the substance, the hon. Member
 691
 The Speaker  said, it was not a common thing for an hon. Member to present a petition having immediate reference to himself. The usual course was, when any hon. Member had a complaint to make, to state the subject matter in his place in Parliament. In the present instance, the hon. Member for the county of Limerick, having adopted the mode of appealing to the House by petition, and having stated it to be a case of private grievance, he could see no reason for objecting to the rending of the petition. "That your petitioner sincerely believes that the persons who have set on foot this subscription, desire and intend thereby, to frustrate and annul the choice of the electors of Ireland by the following means: "First—Taking advantage of the expensive nature of the present process for the trial of controverted elections, they hope to overbear, by such subscriptions, the possibility of any resistance or defence upon the part of such sitting Members as may not be able to defray the expense of defending a seat in Parliament—an expense, which not unfrequently has amounted to several thousand pounds upon the trial of a single petition. "Secondly,—Availing themselves of the present state of the law, they propose by the presentation of petitions against a considerable number of Members of your honourable House to disqualify from sitting upon committees for the trial of election petitions a large portion of those Members whose political opinions are in accordance with the sentiments of the electors of Ireland, and thus to obtain committees favourable to the objects for which this confederacy has been formed. "That your petitioner humbly conceives that such a confederacy and subscription is in the highest degree unconstitutional, and that if it be converted into a precedent, a similar proceeding may hereafter be used as an instrument destructive to the rights and liberties of the British people. "That in reference to the connection be-
 692 "That your petitioner has seen in the public newspapers a letter purporting to have been signed by Sir Francis Burdett, a Member of your honourable House, in which letter the said Sir Francis avows that he has contributed to this fund. And your petitioner humbly submits that it is the duty of your honourable House to inquire how far it is consistent with the impartial exercise of the functions which this hon. Member may be compelled (subject to the obligation and sanction of an oath) to undertake that he should thus voluntarily have made himself a party in a casein which the law constitutes him a judge. "That, in exemplication of the results which may be expected to arise from the employment of the above-mentioned subscription, your petitioner has observed that a petition has been presented, impeaching the validity of the late election and return for the county of Limerick, which petition your petitioner conscientiously believes would not have been presented with a view to its being brought before a Committee of your honourable House, unless the parties from whom it emanates had expected to receive assistance and support from the above-mentioned confederacy. "That it does not become your petitioner, in his own case, to make any statement which may induce Members of your honourable House to prejudge the merits of a petition which will be subjected to the investigation of a Committee of your honourable House, but your petitioner firmly believes that his return was the result of the free choice of the electors, of the county of Limerick, and that the grounds of the said petition are of a nature wholly frivolous and untenable. "That your petitioner is not ashamed to confess that, even though assured of a favourable result, he does not regard with indifference the expense of defending his seat under the present mode of defending the trial of controverted elections; and he therefore humbly submits that if he should decline to defend his seat under a feeling of unwillingness to enter upon an equal contest with parties sustained by a subscription collected in England from individuals who are both wholly regardless of the interests of the constituency of the county of Limerick, but only anxious to promote the objects of the party to which they were attached, the free choice of the electors of the county would in such case be defeated and annulled by the machinations of the unconstitutional confederacy. 693 "That, as well therefore upon grounds of public policy, as with reference to his own individual case, your petitioner humbly prays that an inquiry may be made into all the proceedings connected with the said subscription, for the purpose of ascertaining whether such subscription be consistent with the laws of the land, the usages of Parliament, the privileges of your honourable House, and the rights of the electors of Great Britain and Ireland; and that your honourable House may take such other measures for securing to the people of Ireland protection against any injury or injustice that may arise from such confederacy and subscription as in its wisdom it shall see fit. "And your petitioner will ever pray " WILLIAM SMITH O'BRIEN."
 Mr. Hume  said, as the subject was to come under the consideration of the House at an early day, he should submit to the House whether it would not be proper to have the petition printed?
 The Speaker  thought, if the hon. Member who had presented the petition desired to have it printed that it was incumbent upon him, and not upon the hon. Member for Kilkenny, to move that it be printed with the votes. It was also necessary that the hon. Member should fix some specific day on which it should be brought under the attention of the House.
 Mr. O'Brien  announced his intention to call the notice of the House to the question, whether an hon. Member—the hon. Member for Wiltshire, for instance—could subscribe to a fund to enable parties to question a return, in which he had no interest, and of which he knew nothing? He should move that the petition be printed in the votes of the House. He begged to give notice that he should bring the subject under its attention to-morrow.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that the petitioner stated so much relative to the election, the trial of which was pending, that the House would do well to pause before it assented to the motion. The statement in the petition went the length of attacking the late Limerick election upon the merits, and he, therefore, thought the hon. Member should have given notice of his motion.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that on a former night a petition presented by an hon. Member on his side of the House from
 694
 Mr. S. O'Brien  presented himself to the House as an aggrieved party in reference to the Spottiswoode conspiracy that had been entered into against those who, like himself, represented large constituencies, but were unable to defend the expenses of petitions. He therefore intended, on the circumstances he had stated, to found a motion for to-morrow, in reference to the conduct of the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Wilts. And he begged to move, as a necessary preliminary, that his petition be printed with the votes.
 Lord John Russell  did not think the petition stated anything with regard to the last election; it merely alleged, that as between those complaining of the return and the sitting Member there could not be a fair trial, in consequence of circumstances having special reference to a Member of that House. He did not, therefore, see how the rule which had been applied in the cases of Bridgewater and Berwick-upon-Tweed must necessarily hold here. At the same time, he could not see why the hon. Member should give notice of bringing the matter before the House to-morrow, when another hon. Member intended discussing the same subject to night. The petition stated nothing which was not known throughout the whole country; and if the discussion anticipated came on to-night, why should the House be again called on to enter into the matter afresh to-morrow?
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped the House would pause, before they established a precedent by sanctioning the printing of the petition on another ground. This was not the application of an individual merely complaining of a private injury or grievance; but the petition contained an argument on grounds of public policy. These were the words of the concluding paragraph:—" That as well therefore upon grounds of public policy, as with reference to his own individual case, your petitioner humbly prays," &c. The petitioner referred to a
 695
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the question was one of privilege, and did not require any previous notice. The objection of the right hon. Baronet was rather comical. He said the petition should not be printed because it contained an argument; why if the petition contained no reasoning, that would have been an excellent reason for not having it presented at all. Seriously, the question involved the interest of many individuals in that House. It might be desirable to know how many in that House had contributed to this fund. As far as he understood the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Wiltshire, he had put his name publicly in the newspapers; he gave all parties fair notice; certainly, there was candour in his conduct; and they all knew, therefore, if the hon. Baronet should be called on to serve on any election Committee, that he was one of the parties to the petition, and he would be challenged of course; for what could be more monstrous than that a man should be both a party and a judge? Was it to be endured in this country, that there should be a tribunal where men could contribute to the expenses of a suit, and yet adjudicate on the merits as a judge? He had heard much of this and that being un-English, surely this was exceedingly un-English. He therefore hoped hon. Gentlemen opposite who had contributed to this fund, or suspected others, would come forward and avow themselves, that the House might know who were partisans and who were not. There would then be some chance of fair play; there would be "edification in their vice." All the hon.
 696
 Lord Stanley  said, he hoped neither the House nor the hon. Baronet would now be led into any premature discussion on a general question which was to undergo, or at least which he hoped was to undergo, full discussion to-night, as to whether an individual or set of individuals, singly or collectively, had or had not a right to subscribe to the legal expenses of an election petition. The question now before the House was one of much narrower compass; and he rose principally with the view of pointing out to the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that there existed between this case and the Bridgewater and Berwick-upon-Tweed petitions a much closer connexion and analogy than he seemed disposed to allow. The petition, which had been presented from Berwick, had been withdrawn by consent of the House. It did not complain of anything which had occurred at the election; but it stated that an agent or some person on behalf of the rejected candidates had written a letter to the petitioner, who had voted for the sitting Members, requesting him to give evidence of bribery before the Committee; and that upon his answering that he could not conscientiously give such evidence, that agent had offered him a large sum of money to appear before the Committee—an offer which clearly amounted to subornation of perjury. That petition had nothing whatever to do with the merits of the election: it did not enter into it even so much as the present petition did; but as it appeared to prejudge some person who had been instrumental in bringing forward the petition against the return of the sitting Members for Berwick, it had been thought advisable that his hon. Friend who had presented that petition should withdraw it. The petition was in consequence withdrawn; and he left it to the House to say, whether the petition of the hon. Member for Limerick did not go much more into the merits of his return than the petition to which he had just alluded.
 The Attorney-General  said, the question for the House to decide was, whether
 697
 Mr. Hinde  said, that the speech of the Attorney-General was intended to show that there was a difference between the Bridgewater petition and that which was then under the consideration of the House, but what had fallen from him had tended to prove that it was very inconvenient when an hon. Member ventured to enter upon a discussion of which he had not heard the commencement. If the hon. and learned Attorney-General had been in
 698 Attorney-General,
 Mr. Pryme  observed, that the reason alleged for the withdrawal of the petition last night was, that it related to a matter which could be inquired into before the Election Committee. Of course it could, for it was the duty of every tribunal to inquire whether any witness examined before it had been tampered with or not. But that was not the case here. How could the grievance of which the hon. Member for Limerick complained be inquired into before the Election Committee? It clearly could not be inquired into, if the hon. Baronet, the Member for Wiltshire,
 699
 Mr. Hinde : I distinctly stated last night, that the allegations of the petition which I then presented could not be inquired into by any Election Committee, as the party complained of was not an agent of the petitioning candidate.
 Sir F. Burdett :—Sir, it is personally indifferent to me what becomes of this petition; but I must say, that if the hon. Member who presented it had been mo e accustomed to the usual courtesies of the House, he would have given me notice of his intention to present it. He did not think proper to do so. That is not, however, a matter of the slightest importance tome, further than this—that I might not have been in the House at the time of his presenting it, and the hon. Member might have averred things to which I might have wished to reply, without having the opportunity to do so. After what has just fallen from my noble Friend, I will not enter into that question now. The whole of this proceeding is so extraordinary to me, is so contradictory to all previous Parliamentary experience that it is difficult to comprehend the meaning of it. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin has pursued a similar course to the hon. Member for the county of Limerick—for he calls an act of mine by a name which attributes criminality to it, and yet he does not venture upon a single argument to show how injustice is done by honest men, who wish to see justice done, aye justice done to Ireland, and more particularly justice done upon the hon. and learned Member himself. It is not to be borne that any man should suppose that by big words, an assuming tone, and a confident brow, this House can he driven from its usual mode of proceeding into measures which are contrary to its usual practice, and I may say, to its ordinary privileges and to the common sense of every thinking man in the country. The hon. and learned Member charges us with a conspiracy. A conspiracy!—and for what? Conspiracy is not an offence, except it be a combination for an illegal object. Conspiracy is only combining together for
 700 701
 Mr. O'Connell  rose to explain [ Spoke spoke.
 The Speaker  called on Mr. O'Connell to explain.
 Mr. O'Connell : I did not use a single harsh word. I did not describe what I think a crime by its proper denomination. The hon. Baronet has therefore misstated me. He also misstated me in saying that I used no argument to show how a person could be partial in a case like this. I did so. [Renewed tumult—Mr. O'Connell sat down, the Speaker rose.]
 Mr. Hume  rose amidst loud cries of "Chair" Why chair?
 Sir R. Inglis : I called chair, Sir, because you rose, and when you rise, Sir, it is due to your station that you should be heard.
 Mr. Hume : I have not yet spoken. I am not out of order. Why then does the right hon. Baronet call out "Chair?" ["Order," "Chair."]
 Sir E. Knatchbull —I never till now, saw an occasion, since I have been in Parliament in which the Chair rose to offer its opinion on a point of order and was not duly attended to.
 The Speaker : It is true that I rose, and I did so for the purpose of stating that when the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was about re-stating his arguments, he was doing that which was inconsistent with an explanation. The hon. Member for Kilkenny, I suppose, rose for the purpose of showing that the hon. and learned Member was in order; for otherwise he had no right to rise.
 Mr. Hume  had not risen with the view attributed to him by the Speaker, but because his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Dublin, had desisted from his
 702 703
 Mr. Aglionby  could not give his vote upon the present question without making a few observations in support of it. It would not raise the character of the House with the country, when it was known that a mere question as to the practice of the House had engendered so much personal heat and party violence. His reason for voting for the printing of this petition
 704
 Sir Edward Sugden  begged to call the attention of the House to this paragraph in the petition of the hon. Member for Limerick:—"That it does not become your petitioner in his own case to make any statement which may induce Members of your hon. House to prejudge the merits of a petition which will be subjected to the investigation of a Committee of your hon. House, but your petitioner firmly believes that his return was the result of the free choice of the electors of the county of Limerick, and that the grounds of the said petition are of a nature wholly frivolous and untenable." He put it to the noble Secretary for the Home Department, whether such a statement did not make this an election petition.
 Lord J. Russell  rose to address the House in consequence of the pointed appeal which had just been made to him, and because he thought it important that the House should settle the mode of proceeding as to this question. The hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last had asked him this question—"Do you not think that the words of the paragraph which I have just read affect the merits of the election petition for the county of
 705 706
 Mr. Morgan O' Connell  said, that on this occasion he should certainly vote with the hon. Member for the county of Limerick. The hon. Baronet, the Member for Wiltshire, had made a violent attack on the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and had said, that for twenty years of his life the battle cry of that hon. Member had been "Agitate, agitate." Now, he should like to know what the hon. Baronet himself had been doing for a life which extended over a much longer period? Was it not the hon. Baronet who had agitated this vast metropolis to its very centre; and who had endangered the peace of the city and the lives of thousands of its inhabitants? Surely, then, the hon. Baronet should be the last man in the country to
 707
 Major Handley  said, that the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Wiltshire, had expressed his intention to retire from the House, and not to vote upon this question. He wished to know whether this conduct was to be taken as an emblem of the impartiality which the hon. Baronet had determined to pursue on all election petitions from Ireland, and whether the hon. Baronet did not feel it binding on his honour not to vote at all upon those matters.
 Lord Staley : As we have now gone through the whole of the business that stands upon the notice-paper for to-day, I beg to take the opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the state in which we stand with respect to the question which we had hoped to have brought to a discussion and conclusion this evening. Certainly if there were any parties in that House feeling that the motion to be brought forward by the hon. Member for Monmouth (Mr. Blewitt) was one not only of the most unusual, but also of the most absurd and ridiculous character.—I say, if there were any parties in this House who were of opinion that the motion brought forward was absurd and ridiculous, I must say, that the proceedings of this evening must have been most highly gratifying to them; because a motion introduced with so much pomp, heralded by so loud a flourish of trumpets—a motion upon which the Government avowedly intended to make a stout battle—was at last brought forward [the remainder of the sentence was drowned in loud cries of "Question!" and cries of "Go on!"] When order had been restored the noble Lord continued: I am too well aware of the practice of this House not to know that at this moment, formally speaking, there is no question before it. If, therefore, it be the pleasure of the House that I wait till the question be put from the chair "that this House do now adjourn," I am perfectly willing to sit down. But I thought it more convenient—[cries of "No, no,"] and I have the right—[cries of "question" and adjourn"]—have the right to make what observations I may think fit, and still be
 738
 Lord Stanley : I am now in perfect form, according to the orders of the House, and have a right to continue those observations that I was about to make as to the course of proceeding which has been taken this evening, and the course which lies before us for to-morrow. I have stated, and repeat it again, that those who thought that the motion of the hon. Member for Monmouth (Mr. Blewitt) was absurd and ridiculous, must have been highly gratified at the farce which has been enacted to-night. Yes, the motion so confidently brought forward, so avowedly made the groundwork upon which the Government had intimated their intention of taking a most extraordinary and, as I think, most unconstitutional course with respect to petitions, has turned out to be the greatest farce ever enacted in this House. The hon. Member for Monmouth comes down with a long string of, I suppose, very well-considered resolutions; because no man, and especially a new Member of the House, would, I think, come down with, so long a string of resolutions, involving the most serious principles, unless they had previously been well and carefully considered.
 Mr. Hume : I rise to order. The noble Lord is about to arraign the conduct of an hon. Member. Has he given any notice to that hon. Member of his intention? That hon. Member is not now present. I leave it, therefore, to the noble Lord to say how far he thinks it proper to proceed with observations relating to the conduct of another Gentleman, that Gentleman not being present to defend himself.
 Lord Stanley : I thank the hon. Member for Kilkenny for informing me that the hon. Member for Monmouth is not present. Finding that he has disappeared under the cloud which has involved all
 739 No, no! No, no! 740 741
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  had taken an opportunity, more than once in the course of the evening, of stating that until the motion of the hon. Member for Monmouth was disposed of, he could not exactly say in what terms his motion would be framed; but, from first to last, he had given a distinct intimation that it was his intention to direct the notice of the House to the conduct of the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Burdett), the Member for North Wilts. That intimation was given in terms as clear and explicit as he had the power of employing; and his absence from the House, a short time since, was for the purpose of writing out the notice of his motion for to-morrow night, and giving it to the clerk. The notice he was going to submit, and which had been drawn up without any reference to any thing that had fallen from the noble Lord, was to the following effect: that he would, on the morrow evening move, that the petition presented by him, complaining of the subscriptions raised to prosecute election petitions in Ireland, be referred to a Select Committee.
 Lord John Russell : The noble Lord has called the attention of the House to the proceedings of the night; and, I think, he has indulged rather unduly in an air of triumph at the resolutions moved by the hon. Member for Monmouth not being acceded to by the House. It is very possible, that the hon. Member for Monmouth, not being used to the modes of proceeding in the House, may, without sufficient consideration, have given notice of resolutions with which other hon. Members could not agree. It may be very possible that the motion which he framed was not in accordance with the general view of those who share in his opinion, as to the character of these subscriptions. But I do not think, that the noble Lord is justified in assuming from that that he is to leave this House with an assurance that the confederacy to collect subscrip-
 742 743 744 745
 Sir Charles Douglas  congratulated the House upon the speech it had just heard from the noble Lord. But he begged to ask the noble Lord a question—he wished to know from the noble Lord, what was the course taken by him some few years ago, not with regard to subscriptions for election petitions, but with regard to subscriptions for forwarding the elections themselves? He wished to know, whether at the time before there was any coalition between the noble Lord and the hon. and learned Member, who at the beginning of his Parliamentary career was called the franking Member for Ireland, but who since had been well known as the temporary Member for Dublin—he wished to know whether, at that time, the noble Lord was not aware that large sums of money were systematically collected to further the elections of that party to which the noble Lord was attached? The noble Lord might think that constitutional; he (Sir C. Douglas) did not. The noble Lord and his Colleagues might very probably think their coalition with the hon. and learned Member of very considerable importance, and, therefore, they continued steady to engagements which many of them in their hearts wished they had never contracted. Their coalition with that parley was, indeed, as disgraceful to themselves as their continuance in office had been pernicious to the country. He repeated the remark, and he thought that the majority of the House must agree with him, when he reminded them that the coalition of the Ministry was with one who could not speak of his own countrymen but as "hereditary bondsmen," nor
 746
 Lord J. Russell  said, as there appeared to be so much confusion of opinion in the House, he would state his recollection of the facts, thinking that whatever decision the right hon. Gentleman might himself come to ought to be at once acquiesced in by the House. After the resolutions had been moved and seconded, and the first had been read from the chair, the hon. Member for Bridport suggested that all the resolutions should be withdrawn, except the fourth, and that a Select Committee should be moved for. The question for the withdrawal of the first resolution was then put. The hon. Member for Evesham rose at the moment to address the House, but, finding that the hon. Members on his side did not agree in his wish to do so, he sat down, and the Speaker proceeded. He (Lord J. Russell) then understood the withdrawal to have been put and carried. The Speaker could not be answerable for the inattention of Members who afterwards were unaware of what had been the proceedings. He paid attention at the time, and had now stated his recollection. It remained for the Speaker to take the course he thought necessary.
 Lord John Russell  said, that however desirous Members might be to get out of town as soon as possible, he thought that,
 717
 Lord John Russell  wished to know from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Blewitt), whether he did not consider it better to reserve the discussion of his resolutions until to-morrow, when the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. W. S. O'Brien) would bring under discussion a petition bearing on the same subject?
 Lord John Russell  had understood that the first four resolutions had been withdrawn.
 Lord J. Russell  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to name the days after Christmas when it would be convenient to consider the various election petitions before the House. He should detain the House for a very few moments on this subject, but he felt that he owed some explanation in respect to the answer which he had given to a noble Lord on a previous evening, who begged that an early day might be fixed for these petitions. He would now say at once that, as it was expected that the House would adjourn from the day immediately preceding the Christmas holydays until the 1st of February, he should propose that the first petition on the list should be taken into consideration on the Tuesday following, the 6th of February. On the occasion to which he had referred, he stated to the noble Lord that he had some hesitation as to what course he should pursue in respect to these petitions. He did not wish to provoke a debate on a subject which might be better considered to-morrow night; but he must say, that circumstances had occurred before, during, and after, the late elections, which had caused him to doubt whether or not it might not become necessary to adopt an extraordinary course in reference to these petitions. Threats had been held out in some instances that persons whose return was certain, would be opposed, and that, in case this opposition failed, the returns would be petitioned against. In other cases contests were provoked where there was no chance, of a new candidate succeeding. Immediately after the elections particular reference was made to those of Ireland, and it was openly declared that it was necessary to raise a subscription to set aside the returns from that country;
 712 713
 Mr. C. Buller  was exceedingly obliged to the right hon. Baronet for having apprised him of the course which he intended to pursue in reference to his Bill. It could not be expected of him to discuss the propriety of that course; but he must say, that he had heard no reason from the right hon. Baronet, except the threat of his opposition, which should prevent him from pursuing the course he had originally intended in reference to a matter to which much public interest was attached, and on which he might say public justice to some extent depended. He should be very sorry to prevent the right hon. Baronet and his Friends from going out of town, but at the same time he must say that he really did not so particularly want their attendance in this matter. As far, however, as the Bill might be benefited by their counsel, he hoped that their engagements were not so very pressing as to prevent their affording their assistance.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that it certainly did appear more difficult for the Speaker to perform his duty in this reformed House than in the old un-reformed Parliament. He wanted to know how it was the hon. Member had withdrawn his resolutions without the consent of the House?
 Colonel Sibthorp  trusted that nothing that had fallen from him had been construed into any disrespect. He could in all sincerity declare that he had intended none.
 Sir E. Sugden  declared, that he had not the slightest intention to cast any imputation on the chair. His only object had been to explain how it had been that they on that side of the House had fallen into the error of supposing that the question of withdrawal had not been put.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, the real state of the case appeared to be this. The resolutions having been regularly moved and seconded, the hon. Member for Monmouth walked down to the table to place the amended paper in the Speaker's hands. You, Sir, continued the hon. and learned Member, state that you afterwards put the question for the withdrawal of the first resolution. But I am bound to say that I did not hear a single word of your putting that question, owing to the inattention that prevailed at the time on these benches. The difficulty seems to me to arise, not from your not having put the question, but from our not having heard you put it. Suddenly you passed on to consider what were the terms of the fourth resolution, with what I at the time, and I say it with the utmost respect, thought some irregularity, I having no conception at the time that any motion to withdraw the resolution had been put by you, Sir. Had I been aware that such a question had been put, I should myself have got up, and opposed the withdrawal.
 Mr. French  submitted to the hon. Member whether he might not as well wait for the motion of the hon. Member for the county of Limerick which stood for to-morrow, and which was precisely for the Committee the hon. Member sought, and thus let the matter come in a more matured shape before the House.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to address the House, but was called to order by
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he had risen to subscribe to the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman in his statement with regard to the first resolution.
 Mr. Goulburn  had not heard the motion put for the withdrawal, although it was evident from what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in the chair that the question had been duly put.
 Mr. H. Grattan  rejoiced at what had fallen from the noble Lord, and he would ask those who recollected the proceedings at the Carlow and Longford election Committee, whether they would suffer any cause of friend or foe to go before such a tribunal? He called upon the hon. Baronet opposite, to recollect what took place at the Carlow Election Committee in his own presence, where a piece of paper was handed round to the members of the Committee, eight in number, who merely gave a stroke of their pen above or below the name, and the vote was rejected accordingly.
 Mr. Warburton  expressed a hope, that the hon. Member would confine himself to the last resolution which he had read, and merely move for a Committee to inquire generally into the transaction. There might be much difference of opinion among hon. Members as to the details and bearings of the question, but he thought there could be none as to the necessity of the House being acquainted with all the facts of the case. Suppose, for instance, it should appear that among the subscribers to the fund alluded to there were some foreign potentates. [ Oh, oh.! 731 l. l. Hear, hear!" withdraw."
 The Speaker  wished to know from the hon. Member for Monmouth, what the question was he had now to move?
 The Speaker  said, that undoubtedly there was no motion before the House, but if any Member entertained a reason-
 734
 The Speaker  said, he was in the course of reading the fourth resolution, when, in consequence of the hon. Mover desiring to make certain alterations, he called on him to come down to the table and put the resolution into an intelligible shape. While he was doing this the Attorney-General began to address the House, and he called him to order because there was no motion before the House.
 The Speaker  said, he had put the question on the first resolutions, and that part of the motion was withdrawn. He considered that no objection existed to the withdrawal. He was then about to put the question on the last resolution, but it not being in the proper form to be put, the hon. Member for Monmouth (Mr. Blewitt) came to the table to alter it. At that time it was, that the hon. and learned Attorney-General proceeded to address the House, when he had called the hon. and learned Gentleman to order, on the ground that there was no question before the House.
 The Speaker  said, that he had called the Attorney-General to order because at the moment when he was addressing the House there was no motion before it.
 The Speaker : The hon. Member must hand me the precise words of his motion.
 The Speaker  called the hon. and learned Gentleman to order, there being no question before the House.
 The Speaker : I am sure the House will give me full credit when I say that my only desire is to have the question fairly deci-
 735
 The Speaker  said, that all he had meant was to point out the very painful situation in which he had been placed by what had occurred.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the House to the fact that the hon. and learned Member for Ripon (Sir E. Sugden) had occupied the attention of the House the other evening for two hours and a half, and then withdrew his motion. No objection was then taken by that (the Ministerial) side of the House to the course so pursued. They had not pressed for a division on that occasion. He
 733
 Mr. Borthwick  had understood the Speaker to have put the question on the first resolutions, upon which he (Mr. Borthwick) rose to oppose them, when he was interrupted by hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House stating that they were withdrawn.
 Mr. Borthwick  had one word to say in confirmation of his previous statement. He would not have got up to address the House in the first instance had he not heard put the question of withdrawal. He then rose solely because he was afraid that
 736
 Mr. Blewitt  had always been accustomed to give the right hon. Member for
 737
 Mr. Blewitt  said, if the subject was to be taken up by any hon. Member of more weight than himself, he should be content to withdraw his resolutions. But inasmuch as it was admitted that a difference of opinion prevailed in the public mind on the subject of the subscription, he thought it quite necessary that it should be known what the law was.
 Mr. Blewitt  left his seat, and was proceeding to make the alteration in the form of his motion, when
 Mr. Blewitt : To strike out the first part of the fifth resolution, and move for the appointment of a Select Committee.
 Mr. Blewitt , seeing that the wish of the House was, that he should not press the first four resolutions, and merely move for the Committee would at once submit to its desire.
 Mr. Blewitt  then proceeded:—Sir, in rising to move the resolutions of which I have given notice, I can assure the House I feel deeply impressed with the responsibility of the duty I am now called upon to discharge. It will naturally be asked of me, what qualifications have you, a young and inexperienced Member of the House, to put yourself forward thus prominently in the face of your country, and to assume a position which would have better become a more eloquent advocate, and a more practised debater? Sir, in answer to that inquiry, I must plead guilty to a charge of presumption—the presumption of one who undertakes an Herculean task, without the strength or the power by which only it is to be achieved. Humble, however, as my position in this house may be, I cannot stand tamely by, and see its dignity insulted, its authority despised, and its just rights and privileges set at defiance, Sir, my attention was first called to the grievance in question by the remittance to London, from the country town near which I reside, of a sum of money, for the avowed purpose of expelling from this House the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. Sir, it did appear to me that this was a most foul and atrocious aggression upon the freedom of election, and the liberty of the subject, and such as I could not have anticipated, even from the utmost virulence of political or party feeling. I had, indeed, heard that a Committee had been formed in London, for purposes which I could not but deem unlawful and unconstitutional; but until the subscription to which I have alluded came under my notice, I had no conception of the mischiefs that might result from the formation and objects of the Committee. I little dreamed that the combination of a few individuals, filling respectable stations in society, and who might be acting from honest impulses, but wrong conclusions, to achieve what, however illegal in itself, might by them be deemed justifiable, would lead to results tending to sap the foundations of justice, and to annihilate at one "fell swoop" the rights and liberties of a mighty nation. Sir, if the hon. and learned Member for Dublin is to be expelled from this House by the combined and collected resources of Conservative opulence, why not the noble Lord on the treasury bench, and all
 719 infinitum 720 "Si antiquitatem spectes, est vetustissima; si dignitatem est honoratissima; si jurisdictionem est capacissima." "It hath not been used before time, nor becomes it us to determine matters concerning the high court of Parliament, which is so high and mighty in its nature that it is judge of the law, and makes that to be law which is not law, and that to be no law which is." "Whatever matter arises concerning either House of Parliament ought to be examined, discussed, and adjudged in that House to which it relates, and not elsewhere. In the celebrated county of Norfolk case, in 1586, the Lord Chancellor and Judges took upon themselves to decide which of two returns were valid; upon which it was resolved by the whole body of this House, 'That it was a most perilous precedent, that after two knights of a county were duly elected, any new writ should issue out for a second election without order of the House itself. That the discussing and adjudging of this and such-like differences only belonged to the House.' On the 28th of April, 1626, Mr. Crooke complained to the House, that Sir Thomas Horwood had reviled him, saying, that he came to be a Member of the House by bribery and corruption, and Sir Thomas Horwood was sent for to answer the charge. On the 7th of December, 1669, the House of Commons passed a resolution,' That no petition, or any other matter depending in the House of Commons, can be taken notice of by the Lords, unless communicated to them by the House of Commons.' The celebrated declaration of rights, which was comprised by 1 William and Mary, 1688–9, contains the following passage:—'That the freedom of speech an I debates, or proceedings in Parliament, ought not to be impeached or questioned in any court or place out of Parliament.' On the 11th of January, 1694, the House passed the following resolution:—'Resolved, that Mr. Alexander Norres, mayor of the borough of Liverpool, in the county of Lancaster, having taken upon him to judge, that Joseph
 721 722 imperium in imperio "Suave mari magno turbantibusæquora ventis E terrâmagnum alterius spectare laborem"— 723 "The 1st Richard 1st enacted, 'That no person whatever shall take or sustain any quarrel by maintenance in the country, on grievous pain—the King's officers to be punished as therein provided; all others, on pain of imprisonment and ransom.' By the 1st Edward 3rd. (one of our most accomplished princes and law-givers) it was enacted, 'That no person shall take upon him to maintain quarrels nor parties in the country, to the disturbance of the common law.' This offence was again recognised by the 32d Henry 8th, and tke offender was made liable to a penalty of 10 l." "ut bene gereretur Respublica." "There it was said the objection was taken that the petitioners against the return had not entitled themselves, by their petition, to question the election, having not thereby so much as alleged that they were either electors or elected, or candidates for the said ejection. The committee did not come to any express resolution on that particular point, but upon the whole matter they decided that the election was good. In the Dumbarton district case, 1728, the House decided that the manner of obtaining and signing a petition was a material question previous to the trial, and referred that matter to the consideration of the Com-
 724 v. 725 726 lex Parliamenti. 727 The Standard 728 729 730
 Mr. Blewitt : If I am to understand that I shall have precedence to-morrow evening, I shall agree to the noble Lord's proposition.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, that if he were allowed to reserve that portion of his motion which stood for to-morrow, and which referred more immediately to the conduct of the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Wiltshire, he had no objection to the Committee being appointed at once.
 Mr. Praed  had not understood the question to be put.
 Sir Edward Codrington  could confirm what the hon. Member for Evesham had stated as the fact with regard to the motion put from the chair. There was no noise whatever on that (the Ministerial) side, though there was much noise among the Gentlemen on the other side. It was that noise which had no doubt given rise to the mistake.
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  was quite sure that every decision of the right hon. Gentleman emanated from the purest mind. He thought that the decision of the right hon. Gentleman on the subject, whatever it might be, should at once be accepted by the House.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  had not been aware that such was the case. If the Speaker should say he had put the question, that would alter the case. He did not believe the question had been put.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  called the attention of hon. Members, and that of the noble Lord, in consequence of the course pursued by the hon. Member for Monmouth (Mr. Blewitt), and the proposition that the subject under discussion should be deferred until to-morrow. The hon. Member for Monmouth had deliberately persevered in bringing on his motion, after he had been requested by the noble Lord to postpone it until to-morrow, and after having occupied the time of the House with the delivery of a speech which very possibly contained much information, now came forward and asked leave to withdraw his motion. Under ordinary circumstances he (Sir E. Knatchbull) should not object to the adoption of such a course, but he did think, under the present it was due to the justice and character of the House that it should come to a decision upon the question.
 The Attorney-General  rose for the purpose of entreating- the hon. Member to withdraw his motion, inasmuch as a discussion was fixed for to-morrow, which would open the whole subject. On the discussion of the petition of the hon. Member (Mr. S. O'Brien), which had been ordered to be printed to-morrow, they would have both the law and the fact for their consideration, and the House then might determine as to the propriety of the appointment of a Committee of privileges, or a Select Committee. His
 732
 The Attorney-General , amidst roars of "Order, order! chair, chair!" rose to call the right hon. Baronet to order. There was no question before the House. The right hon. Baronet, while he recommended to the House to adhere to their rules, ought at least to adhere to them himself.
 Sir Robert Peel : I think the hon. Gentleman should stipulate for his taking pre-
 718
 Sir Robert Peel  recollected only once entering the room of the Carlow Election Committee, and then only for half an hour, during the whole of which time the Committee was occupied in listening to the speech of Mr. Thesiger.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had partly mistaken what he had said. The notion of leaving town had not originated with him or with any Gentleman on his side of the House, but with Gentlemen on the other side. He had stated, that so general was this impression amongst Gentlemen on the opposite side that the hon. Member for Bridport had declined to postpone his motion on the Danish claims beyond the present week. Under these circumstances he felt assured that Government would not lend itself to obtain an unfair advantage upon a question of so much importance.
 Sir Robert Peel  was quite of opinion that the proposition of the hon. Member for Kent should be adopted; namely, that whatever might be the decision of the Speaker on the point must be assented to. It appeared that the hon. Member for Monmouth was prepared to relinquish his first three resolutions. If the father of those babes, and pretty large babes they were, chose to abandon them, they must be thrown on the parish; The House had no authority to compel the hon. Member to provide for them. He and his friends were, he trusted, not to be accused of smothering them. The only safe course for the House to pursue in this as well as in all similar cases was to adhere strictly to their rules. If the hon. Member for Monmouth chose to relieve them—
 Sir R. Peel  rejoiced at the course which the noble Lord had taken, and which entirely precluded the necessity for his making the motion of which he had given notice, in the event that the noble Lord's motion had not been made. He rejoiced, because he thought that the noble Lord had strictly adhered to the uniform course pursued in respect to election petitions, and had thus asserted the undoubted principle that it was the first duty of Parliament to determine who were the representatives of the people. By the course now adopted by the noble Lord, it was declared to the country that the House would proceed, immediately after the recess, to try the election petitions, before the known constitutional authority of Parliament, and therefore all parties concerned in them would hold themselves in readiness to give their attendance, and do all that might be required of them in respect of them at that time. The 6th of February was the day named for the first petition, and the rest on the list must shortly follow in their order, at which time the parties to them must be aware that they would be required to have their witnesses in attendance to submit their cases before the known tribunal appointed to decide upon them. He knew enough of the noble Lord to feel assured that he would not depart, on the present occasion, from the accustomed course of Parliament in these matters. The number of election petitions in 1831 was fifty-seven, and in the present year they were sixty-seven in number, and the noble Lord had justly stated that in the relative numerical proportion of these petitions there was no ground to impeach the  bonâ fide 714 715 The Morning Chronicle. bonâ fide 716
 The Solicitor-General  (amidst much confusion) rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make better provision for collecting and distributing the estates of persons found bankrupts under commissions and fiats directed to country Commissioners. This motion put an end to the confusion, and leave was given to bring in the Bill.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was not aware that the question had been put.
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  felt, he said, in bringing forward the motion of which he had given
 748 exparte 749 l. 750 The Times Standard 751 752 "To A. Spottiswoode Esq." "Sir,—It was my intention to have an-
 753 "Although poor Mr. Raphael took it for double the amount. I now, therefore, in order to secure to myself the honour of being one of the 'gang,' for seeing justice done both to Ireland and England, by subscribing to a fund intended to defray the necessary expenses for that purpose, and in order to make my wish as public as possible, take the liberty thus to address you, and to request the editor of  The Times l." l. l.; 754 l. 755
 Mr. Denison  having also been alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman in the
 771
 Mr. Villiers  could not understand why it was attempted to cast ridicule upon this case unless to escape from the charge which had been established against the parties in question, for he had heard nothing that varied the circumstances of the case which were alleged against the contributions to this fund, and which, if he understood it, was an offence against the privileges of this House, and by means so odious and oppressive as upon grounds of public policy to call for specific notice. It was not a matter even where the facts connected with it were in question; they were admitted, the object of the parties was undisguised, and they had only now to look to the consequences that legitimately flowed from them to decide upon the nature and magnitude of the offence. He did not hear it disputed that men of wealth and station had combined to contribute their funds for the purpose, by means of the Parliamentary tribunals, of removing a class of persons from this House, and substituting in their seats partisans of their own; and that they had so engaged to promote and maintain these petitions before Committees without inquiring into the merits of the case, with-
 777 778 779 780
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the argument of some of the speeches which had that night been made with a view to oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick, was directly in favour of that motion. For instance, all the proceedings which had been described by the noble Lord, the Member for Derbyshire, were proceedings which ought to be taken cognizance of by the House. The noble Lord had told the House that he had been nearly the victim of a combination against him, and that, although the election was a fair one, and in his favour, he had nearly been driven from his seat. Did the noble Lord make a formal complaint to that House? If he had done so, he for one would have voted for an investigation into the subject. The case afforded another instance of the conspiracy of which himself and his friends complained. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter (and none more learned or more able, or even so able) made a long and powerful party speech, but did not meet the question before the House at all.
 792 argumentum ad hominem, 793 Laughter 794 The Standard The Standard The Standard The 795 Standard 796 797 "Pity the sorrows of a poor old man." 798 799 800 801
 Mr. D'Israeli  rose and said, that he trusted the House would extend to him that gracious indulgence which was usually allowed to one who solicited its attention for the first time. He had, however, had sufficient experience of the critical spirit which pervaded the House, to know and to feel how much he stood in need of that indulgence—an indulgence of which he would prove himself to be not unworthy, by promising not to abuse it. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had taunted the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Wiltshire, with having uttered a long, rambling, wandering, jumbling speech. Now, he must say,—and he could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he had paid the utmost attention to the remarks which flowed from him,—that it seemed to him that the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken a hint from the hon. Baronet in the oration which the hon. and learned Gentleman had just addressed to the House. There was scarcely a single subject connected with Ireland which the hon. and learned Member had not introduced into his rhetorical medley. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had also taunted the hon. and learned Member for Exeter with travelling out of the record of the present debate, while he himself had travelled back 700 years, though the House was engaged in the discussion of events which had taken place within the last few months. The hon. and learned Member had favoured the House with an allusion to Poor-laws for Ireland. [" No, no. 803 l. l. l. 804 805 Laughter. 806 Renewed murmurs. Laughter. loud laughter amantium ira amoris integratio [renewed laughter 807 laughter
 Lord Stanley  said, in the observations which he was about to make he would strictly confine himself to the question at issue, not that he would say that he might not find it necessary to refer to precedents and examples set on former occasions, but he begged to be understood as not intending to refer to them by way of crimination, but merely as bearing upon the impartial, honourable, and practical consideration of the question which was fairly brought to issue. He was aware how difficult it was at that hour to command the attention of the House. Before, however, he entered upon the question itself, he begged to state, that he had had no communication, direct or indirect, further than by receiving a printed prospectus, with the association whose proceedings were called in question this night. He would add, that he was not acquainted with the name of any one of its members, except that of the hon. Baronet the Member for North Wilts, and that, as far as he knew, he numbered no one subscriber among his personal friends. He would go further, and say that he had watched with very great regret—and he had made that regret known on more occasions than one, the growing disposition, arising, perhaps out of the strong feeling which impelled two great political parties, nearly equally balanced to carry on every thing in the country relating to election affairs through the means of associations on the one side or the other. He felt it on both sides to be an evil, if
 808 Attorney-General: obiter dictum. 809 No! 810 811 812 813 814 815 816 Name, name, name 817 818
 Mr. O'Brien  in reply said, he did not think that the time of the House had been altogether wasted. He thought that this country and Ireland would expect that on this question the opinion of the House of Commons should be declared. He perhaps owed an apology for making himself the humble instrument of submitting this question to the House. He would not have ventured to present himself as a petitioner if he had not felt that he was one of a class against whom these subscriptions were directed. As he understood, the situation in which the House was placed was this:—the majority agreed in thinking that this proceeding was unconstitutional. The majority agreed with him in thinking that it was inequitable that the same person should be judge and prosecutor; but he observed this, that such was the universal practice on both sides of the House, that they could not come to a division without passing a condemnation on themselves. That he believed was the real state of the case, and that was the reason why he had not the support of Government, and as he was not supported by Government, it was no great boast on the part of the right hon. Baronet, that he would obtain a majority. The right hon. Baronet might enjoy his triumph. He had enjoyed one last night over a new Member, who was unacquainted with the forms of the House; and now he might enjoy a triumph over him (Mr. O'Brien,), for as soon as he heard that his motion would not be supported by Government, he despaired of success. But the discussion which had
 837
 Colonel Conolly  said, that a large part of that House had fallen into the common error of considering certain persons in that House as the people of Ireland; and they assumed that, because some of those persons had been petitioned against, and because subscriptions had been raised in support of those petitions, the rights of the people of Ireland were attacked by the people of England. That, however, was a most erroneous idea, and he called on Britain to vindicate the rights of the oppressed people of Ireland, who were suffering under a tyranny so intense as hardly to be credited. The word which had been uttered by Lord Lyndhurst, and of which such use had been made in agitating the country, had been fairly hunted down; and those who depended on agitation were obliged to look out for some other inflammatory topic, and the English subscription in support of the Irish petitions had furnished them with one exactly suited to their purposes. It was said, that the subscriptions which had been entered into, showed the hostility of Great Britain to Ireland; but he viewed it as an act of generosity to those who were prevented by poverty and oppression from approaching the legitimate tribunal of the land to seek redress for their grievances. He could not imagine how people could suppose that House could be corrupted by the money which had been subscribed in London in support of Irish petitions. It was childish and incredible to suppose, that that money would have any other effect than of putting in a fair light the state of Ireland, and doing justice to the electors of that country. He was not petitioned against, nor he believed had any person ever intended to do so. He lived in a county where there was little difference of opinion, but it had not escaped the exertions of certain persons to disturb its tranquillity. Certain persons had tried to excite the people, and there were certain persons who had made tours to that part of Ireland for purposes of agitation, and he believed that some eminent King's counsel had also been sent down to produce agitation and deprive him of his seat. That agitation of Ireland, which had been so
 781
 Lord Ashley : I shall not detain the House longer than for a very few minutes whilst I confirm every thing which has been stated by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Exeter. I entirely agree with the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) that there is a vast difference between the petitions at present under consideration and that which was instituted against my return. There is certainly a very great difference in the two cases, in the one the whole force of a country was directed against one individual and in the other, one large class is struggling for victory over another. Now let me tell the House the grounds on which the petition and subscription were got up against me, and I think I shall be able to prove that a more unwarrantable proceeding never was instituted. What was the argument used in private to induce persons to subscribe? Why this—"Show but a menacing attitude; he has no money to resist; he is exhausted by the contest, and he must retire." They did show that menacing attitude, and I did retire. It is true that my friends used their best exertions and contributed by subscription for the purpose of obtaining for me a fair hearing; but it was to the malignity of my enemies—for I can call it by no less harsh a name—which I do not, however, mean to apply to the hon. Member for Bridport, who has behaved to me in the most candid and honourable manner, that I owe my sole preservation. The poll was vexatiously kept open for eighteen days, three. Sundays having occurred during this period. The election closed on the 17th of October. I arrived in town on thel9th, and on the 20th or 21st at the very latest, the whole town was placarded with appeals to the country to drive me from my seat. My noble Friend the Secretary of state for the Home Department asked last night how it was possible that those persons who had subscribed to the fund at present under discussion could be aware of the merits of the several petitions, the
 775 776
 Lord J. Russell,  though unwilling to detain the House at that period of the night, felt it his duty to rise to say that he should vote neither for the original motion nor for 'the amendment. He begged a few moments' attention while he stated the grounds on which he felt it impossible to support the original motion. He was of the same opinion
 823 824 825 826 827
 Mr. Harvey  stood there as belonging to neither party; and he could see no distinction between returns for any place in England or in Ireland; there was no distinction whether the return was for an English county or an Irish county, for a Scotch city or an Irish borough: all were in the British empire, and he repudiated any suggestion that he was not interested in them—that he felt no interest in the subject of Irish elections, because he did not represent a city in that part of the empire. How frequently did the House hear of Irish Members marching up at some auspicious moment, and that but for their patriotic aid, English freedom would have been lost. He denied the allegation, and the feelings of every Member of the House should be the same, for whatever place he might be returned. But was it not clear that the expenses of elections were enormous, and the expenses of inquiring into the merits of them before Committees were generally so? Were not these concessions, made reluctantly, sufficient to justify an inquiry by what means hereafter the matter might be altered? And it was with this object that he presented himself. He did not hesitate in saying, from his personal experience, that no tribunal could be compared in unjust proceedings and irresponsibility of character to Committees of the House but one. In 1830 a petition was pre-
 819 820 821 822
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer,  in explanation, denied that he had in any way subscribed with reference to the Canterbury petition. When applied to do so, he had answered that he might be balloted as a member of the committee to take the petition into consideration, and therefore must decline any interference.
 Mr. Bulwer  rose to explain.  [Order, order.]
 Mr. Bulwer  It is not correct.
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer  rose to second the motion. He said he would not detain the House above a few minutes, because it seemed to him that the question lay within the narrowest possible compass. He agreed that the hon. Baronet, the Member for Wiltshire, might not, in his individual case, present himself as an accuser and a judge, because the hon. Baronet might, if he pleased, absent himself from serving upon any Election Committee; but, at the same time, the House must recollect that though the hon. Baronet might be exempted from sitting, he was not disqualified. The hon. Baronet had given the sanction of his name to the subscription. He had publicly declared that the accusations to support which that subscription was set on foot were true; he had made himself a party to those accusations by subscribing to pay the expenses of the accusers; and at the same time he was qualified to sit as judge in that tribunal before whom those accusations must come. It must be recollected also that the brilliant example of the hon. Baronet might have a peculiar effect in encouraging those persons to prosecute their petitions. He did not desire to visit the particular instance of the hon. Baronet with punishment by the House; but since
 756 757 758 759 760
 Mr. Goring  did not think that the noble Lord had stated the case fairly when he asserted that this petition fund was set on foot to decide between two large classes. The truth was this, that the wealth of Ireland was in Protestant hands, and the Members returned to that House being for the greater part elected by Catholics, this conspiracy was concocted in order to foment religious prejudice against the maintenance of the rights of the mass of the population in Ireland. He knew that this combination was looked upon in its proper light by the people of England. It was illegal and unconstitutional for a number of persons to subscribe in order to defeat the return of a man who might not have means to defend his seat, and the House ought to purge itself from every imputation of unfairness and oppression.
 Mr. H. Grattan  reminded the House, that the subject of discussion was the petition of his hon. Friend (Mr. O'Brien); and the argument of " el tu quoque," est usus abolendus?" 782
 Mr. Warburton  admitted the charge made against him by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, of having taken an active part in the election for the county of Dorset some years ago; for he acted as Chairman of the London Committee for his friend Mr. Ponsonby, in opposition to the noble Lord who now sat for the county. As to what took place in reference to that election, as far as he could recollect the circumstances at this distance of time, Members of Parliament studiously avoided subscribing to the funds in support of the petition against the noble Lord's return. For himself, as far as allowing his name to be inserted in the advertisement, calling upon all the inhabitants of the United Kingdom to subscribe in support of this petition, he believed the hon. and learned Member for Exeter had certainly established a case against him—a fact which, of course, Members opposite would not fail to use to the best advantage. With respect to the subscription to defray the expenses of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in defending his return, he certainly not only
 772
 The Speaker  rose and said, I wish to take advantage of this occasion to address a few words to the House. Most of those who now hear me will not, I am sure, be surprised when I say, that the transactions of last night, at the close of the address of the hon. Member for Monmouth, were such as have left a deep impression on my mind. In anything that I now say I do not wish to forget that I am the servant of this House, and, with that feeling on my mind, nothing can be further from my intention than to question the right of a Member to animadvert upon anything that falls from the chair; still further is it from my intention to seek to control that which any Member feels it his duty to do, from a sense of duty to this House and to the public. Feeling this, and as I trust I have ever been governed by such a feeling, I regret to find that I do not possess, as I appeared to possess, as much of the confidence of the House as I some time since ventured to hope I had done. From the moment in which I was first placed in this chair, the greatest object of my desire, and the highest object of my ambition, was to obtain the confidence of this House, and this by the directness the truth, and impartiality of my conduct. I have reflected calmly upon the transactions of last night; I have en-
 747
 Mr. Poulter  thought the House ought to be informed that this system of subscription was not confined to Irish elections. He held in his hand a provincial paper, dated Salisbury, November 11, in which was an advertisement calling upon every person in the country to subscribe in support of a petition against his return. And he was sorry to see amongst the subscribers to this proposed fund the name of one of the hon. Members for Dorchester. He did not think hon. Members opposite were dealing fairly by him in this, for he could positively assert, whatever might be the case with other Members, that in the whole course of his life he had never subscribed one farthing against any of them. And yet in the list printed in this advertisement he saw the names of many persons who were not likely to be his constituents, and of many rich and influential parties, bankers, and others, uniting for the purpose of supporting a petition against the return for the borough of Shaftesbury. He thought that before the hon. Member he had alluded to put down his name to this subscription, he ought, at least, to have considered a little the moral features of the case. He believed it would be found that a more fair, a more honest, or a more constitutional return had never taken place than that for the borough of Shaftesbury. He was surprised that hon. Members on the other side treated him with so much unfairness; but he maintained that the hon. and learned
 773 secundum allegata. l. l, l., l., 774
 Mr. Hume  wished to correct an error into which he had fallen last night in reference to the hon. Member for Ripon. He had stated of that hon. Member's motion, that he had spoken for two hours, and concluded by withdrawing his motion. Such was his impression at the time; but he found by the votes that the motion had not been withdrawn, but put and negatived without a division. He was bound to correct the error into which he had fallen.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. T. Duncombe,  amidst loud cries of "Question! and divide!" said, the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down had not only commented upon the motion of the hon. Member for Limerick, but also upon the amendment of the hon. Member for Southwark; and in doing so he had characterised the amendment as most in-
 835 Much Ado about Nothing, l.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that the other side had been endeavouring to induce him to rise earlier in the evening; but as he had always considered it advantageous not to do that which the enemy recommended him to do, he had preferred deferring his observations on the question. He must say that he wished more of the individuals who sat on the Treasury Bench had addressed the House on the subject. Only one hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken from that bench; and if what that hon. and learned Gentleman had said was true, it put the case entirely out of court. Great as necessarily was the weight of the hon. and learned Gentleman's opinion, and layman as he (Sir F. Burdett) was, he was prepared to meet the hon. and learned Gentleman on this constitutional question, and to call on her Majesty's Government, if the case was an illegal one, to bring it under the consideration of a much better tribunal than that House, in which all sorts of insane political feelings and passions prevailed. In the first place, he must thank the hon. Member for Limerick, who had brought forward the question, for the manner in which he had done so. He was quite satisfied from his demeanour and language that the hon. Gentleman did not
 787 788 789 No, no. una voce. no! 790 "—— patriis intermiscere petita Verba foris malis, Canusini more bilinguis?" "His big manly voice, Turning again towards childish treble, piped And whistled in the sound." 791 l l.,
 The Attorney-General  was desirous, in a very calm and dispassionate manner, to state to the House the view he took of the case under discussion. When the hon. Member for Limerick, last night, gave notice of his intention of moving for the Committee, he ventured to express his opinion that its appointment would be altogether inexpedient, and no less useless. The opinion he then expressed, he still maintained. For what purpose, he asked, should a Committee enter into this investigation? The facts of the transaction were not at all disputed, and that being the case, when these facts were reported by the Committee, what would there be to be done? No one proposed to institute a criminal prosecution; he believed it was neither intended nor wished by anyone; then, was the House to enter into any question of breach of privilege? Such questions, in his humble opinion, were as far as possible to be
 783 Cheers. Tu quoque  No, no! 784 Hear, hear! v. 785 786
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he felt particularly called upon to offer a few observations to the House, in consequence of the direct appeal made to him by the hon. Member on a subject so much adverted to by him; namely, a new tribunal for the trying election petitions. The hon. Member asked him why he urged objections to the improvement of the existing tribunal of that House for the determination of contested elections? He denied that he was opposed to any such improvement. For his own part he was quite willing to take into his consideration any measure for
 828 829 ex post facto 830 de quibusdam arduis rebus de statu et ecclesia Angliœ consultandum. 831 832 tu quoque tu quoque, tu quoque, tu prior, tu quasi. 833 834
 Sir W. Follett  said, he hoped that the hon. Member would have an opportunity, in the course of the discussion, of stating whether he had ever subscribed to any petition. [Mr.  Bulwer 765 766 l. 767 The Freeman's Journal l. 768 l., l. l. 769
 Sir W. Follett  said, it would he much more agreeable to him. if the statement of the hon. Gentleman were at once heard. It might be that the statement in the newspaper was not correct, and he therefore asked the hon. Member for Lincoln to say at once whether it was correct or not.
 Sir W. Follett  said, that he had not meant to have intruded himself upon the attention of the House at that early stage of the discussion, as he certainly did expect, after hearing from the hon. Gentleman who introduced the motion, and after hearing from the hon. Gentleman who seconded it, that the proceedings of this association were illegal and unconstitutional—after hearing it declared that for persons unconnected with the county of Limerick, not forming part of the constituency of the hon. Mover, to presume to subscribe in order to present a petition to question the legality of the return for the county was a breach of the privileges of that House and of the Constitution, he must say he did expect that some Member of the Government, or if not a Member of the Government, at least one of the law officers of the Crown, would have condescended to state to the House, whether, in his judgment, it was illegal, or unconstitutional, or a breach of the privileges of Parliament, for any portion of the people or the constituency of the empire to subscribe or associate for the purpose of bringing before the legal and constitutional tribunal of the country, for its decision, the right of persons to sit and act in that House as their Representatives. He must say, if that were the question before the House—if it were contended that this was an unconstitutional and illegal act, he must entirely protest against such a doctrine; and he should like to know when it was that the hon. and learned Attorney-General, who had expressed but last night such alarm at the proceedings of this subscription committee, or the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had discovered the illegality of such proceedings. He could not help believing that there was something in the peculiar state of parties at that moment—that there was something in the peculiar position of her Majesty's Ministers, and in the nice balance on which the majority of the House turned, and some latent suspicion that there was an infirmity in the title of some of the supporters of the Government, which had led hon. Members on the other side of the House to discover that a practice was illegal and unconstitutional which had prevailed longer than the memory of any one living, and he believed as long as the freedom of the House
 761 762 763 l. l., The Globe The Globe The Globe Cheers from the Ministerial Benches. 764 l. s.
 Lord Clements  amidst much noise said, he would not detain the House two
 836
 Viscount Ebrington  said, that he did not rise for the purpose of replying to the very able speech of the hon. and learned German who had just sat down, but simply to explain the part he had taken in refer-
 770
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  addressed the House nearly as follows: Sir, I rise for the purpose of redeeming that pledge which in the earlier part of the Session, on moving a Committee on the Civil List, in the face of this House, in the face of the country, on the part of my colleagues, and in my own name I gave. I rise for the purpose of moving that the pensions charged on the civil list of his late Majesty in virtue of 1st William IV., c. 24, and in virtue of
 845 Hear! Sibthorp: 846 Hear! 847 l 848 849 850 851 852 853 l l 854 No, No! l l l 855 856 l 857 l l 858 l 859 l 860
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, if this proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, involved merely some consideration of temporary policy or expediency, I might have felt myself at liberty to advert to some of the considerations to which he has referred for the purpose of enabling me to decide upon the course which I should pursue. I might possibly have occupied myself, as he has done, in ransacking the past votes of Members upon this side of the House—
 861 862 Cheers. 863 "I shall now proceed to state the grounds which induce me not to take away from their owners any pensions that now exist. It is certainly true, and no man is more ready to admit it than I am, that many of the pensions on that list are such that ought never to have existed; hut, on the best examination that I
 864 865 866 "The King, Sir, has been, by the constitution, appointed sole judge of the merit for which a pension is to be given. We have a right, undoubtedly, to canvass this, as we have to canvass every act of Government. But there is a material difference between an office to be reformed and a pension to be taken away for demerit. In the former case, no charge is implied against the holder; in the latter, his character is altered, as well as his lawful emolument affected. The former process is against the thing, the second against the person. The pensioner certainly, if he pleases, has a right to stand on his own defence, to plead his possession, and to bottom his title in the competency of the Crown to give him what he holds. Possessed, and on the defensive as he is, he will not be obliged to prove his special merit in order to justify the act of legal discretion. The very act, he will contend, is a legal presumption, and an implication of his merit. If this be so (from the natural force of all legal presumption) he would put us to the difficult proof that he has no merit at all. But other questions would arise in the course of such an inquiry; that is, questions of the merit, when weighed against the proportion of the reward; then the difficulty will be much greater. The difficulty will not, Sir, I am afraid, be much less if we pass to the person really guilty, in the question of an unmerited pension—the Minister himself. I admit, that when called to account for the execution of a trust, he might fairly be obliged to prove the affirmative, and to state the merit for which the pension is given; though, on the pensioner himself, such a process would be hard. If in this examination we proceed methodically, and so as to avoid all suspicion of impartiality and prejudice, we must take the pensions in order of time, or merely alphabetically. The very first pension to which we come, in either of these ways, may appear the most grossly unmerited of any. But the Minister may very possibly show—that he knows nothing of the granting of this pension—that it was prior to his time—to his administration—that the Minister who laid it on is dead; and then we are thrown back upon the pensioner himself, and
 867 868 869 "It is more than probable, therefore, that parties relying on an adherence to an invariable custom, have made family settlements, and pecuniary arrangements of various kinds, with all of which his Majesty must necessarily interfere, should the continuance of these pensions, for the first time, on his accession to the throne be refused. Adverting to all the circumstances of the case,—considering that no material relief to the finances of the country could be derived from the most rigid measures of retrenchment applied to the pension list; that in many cases severe distress, in some actual injustice, would arise to individuals from the general discontinuance of pensions; that such discontinuance on the occasion of his Majesty's accession, would be a departure from an usage invariably observed on the accession of his Majesty's predecessor,—your Committee do not think it advisable to withdraw from the Crown those funds which may enable the Crown, if it shall so think fit, to continue the pensions on the civil list of his late Majesty." 870 "These observations, however, do not apply to the grant of future pensions on the civil list: if granted with a distinct notice to the individuals receiving them, that they are not only legally terminable on the demise of the Sovereign by whom they have been granted, but that they are liable to be revised or discontinued on the settlement of a new civil list, there can be no obstacle to the reconsideration at that time of the then existing pension list." 871 "I admit that the House has a legal right to take away all these pensions if it pleases. They certainly expire with the demise of the Crown; but though the House has a legal right to discontinue them, I doubt whether it has an equitable right, for they have hitherto always been granted on the supposition that, when once obtained, they were to be held, not merely for the life of the Sovereign who granted, but also for the lives of the parties who held them." 872 "On the subject of the pensions I beg to say a few words. I can never conceive it is my duty as a minister of this country, or of the House, as a part of the Legislature, to take advantage of a technical point of law, in order to do what in my conscience I believe to be unjust. The pensions in question, as I stated on Friday, were considered, and always have been considered, as granted for life. It is undoubtedly true, that by taking advantage of a technical point of law, those pensions might be made to expire on the demise of the Crown. There would be a strict legal justification for making them so expire; but I put it to the House—I put it to the country, whether it would be a worthy cause for Government to take advantage of such a circumstance, and whether the relief which would be thereby obtained could be put in competition with the discredit of such a proceeding. Having said this, I have only to add that I await the decision of the Committee and of the House with the deference and respect to which it is entitled; and that it is my most earnest wish that I may be able to comply with any alterations or modifications which may be suggested. At the same time I must observe, that I can never consider myself as bound to submit to the decision of any Committee, or of the House itself, or of any other power whatever, if that decision should involve in it what I deem to be an act of injustice." 873 "You passed those acts with your eyes open, and why should the House of Commons now be called upon, at the suggestion of
 874 "I do not quite understand that cheer from hon. Gentlemen opposite. Undoubtedly such an inquiry must necessarily be painful and disgusting to the good feeling of all mankind." 875 "Let me suppose the case of a meritorious military officer; suppose such officer to have received a pension for years; is this House disposed to call upon him either to forfeit the grants to which he has now a legal right, or to come before a Committee to recite his services, proclaim his own merits, to make out a case, and substantiate his claim to what his Sovereign has granted? Why, Sir, I say that this is a species of inquiry which must necessarily be painful to every well-regulated mind." "I should like to know what it is that hon. Gentlemen propose to themselves if they go into Committee. I only beg to state to the House, as among my objections to this inquiry —I only ask them, as practical men, what they expect to extract from it, unless, indeed (this was addressed to the hon. Member for Southwark)—unless indeed they proceed upon motives which I will not attribute to any hon. Member—motives of undue curiosity, and a desire to investigate the private circumstances of individuals? But we are told by hon. Gentlemen opposite, that they seek to trace the origin of these grants. Now, the hon. Member for Bath stated that most of those who were the responsible advisers of these grants are no more—their evidence and their responsibility are therefore alike excluded. Are we, then, to call all the parties who are themselves in the receipt of these pensions before us, and the responsible Ministers who advised them not being in office or in existence—are we to go into an examination of the private case of each
 876 877 878 "That upon the occasion of the accession of his late Majesty, King William 4th, a Select Committee was appointed in 1831, on the motion of Lord Althorp, then Chancellor of the Exchequer to take into consideration the accounts presented by order of his Majesty relating to the civil list. "That the Committee so appointed took into consideration, together with other classes of the civil list, that of the pensions, and after stating that they felt it to be their duty to explain to the House fully the case in respect to pensions, made in their report the following, among other observations: —' At the same time, it would be a harsh measure to overlook, on this present occasion, that which has been the uniform usage on all former settlements of the civil list. Pensions, on the civil list, have always hitherto been considered to be granted for life, and, in fact, no instance has occurred wherein a pension on the civil list granted by one Sovereign has been discontinued on the accession of his successor. It is more than probable, therefore, that parties relying on an adherence to an invariable custom, have made family settlements and pecuniary arrangements of various kinds, with all of which his Majesty must necessarily interfere, should the continuance of these pensions, for the first
 879 "The Committee proceeded to recommend that the pension lists of England, Scotland, and Ireland should be consolidated into one alphabetical list; that pensions to the amount of 75,000 l "That his Majesty's Government proposed, and Parliament sanctioned, measures in respect to the civil list pensions, founded upon the recommendations of the Committee, and in precise conformity with them, making provision to enable the Crown, if it should so think fit, to continue the whole of the pensions on the civil list of King George 4th. "That, at a subsequent period, the House of Commons passed resolutions in respect to the grant of all future pensions by the Crown, expressing an opinion that they ought to be confined to such persons as had just claims on the royal beneficence, or who, by their personal service to the Crown, by the performance of duties to the public, or by their useful discoveries in science, and attainments in literature and the arts,—have merited the gracious
 880 "That it appears to this House, that the course advisedly taken on the accession of his late Majesty, by the Crown and Parliament, was calculated to justify increased confidence in the continuance of the then existing pensions, and in the permanence of 'family settlements and arrangements of various kinds,' made by parties 'relying on the adherence to invariable custom,' and that whatever harshness or injustice there might have been, on the accession of his late Majesty, in overlooking on that occasion the uniform preceding usage, would, on the present occasion, be greatly aggravated, not only by the lapse of time, and the intervention of a whole reign, but by the direct sanction given in 1831 by the Crown and Parliament to an expectation that the principles then acted on, so far as applicable to the then existing pensions, would be thereafter adhered to. "That, under these circumstances, it is the opinion of this House, that regulations having been established in respect to the grant of future pensions, and precautions having been taken in respect to the revisal or discontinuance of them on new settlements of the civil list; it is advisable now to make such provision as shall enable the Crown, if it shall so think fit, to continue those pensions which were continued by the Crown on the accession of his late Majesty, or which were granted by his Majesty." *
 Lord Eliot  had not the presumption to rise for the purpose of adding to, or even confirming by any observations of his, the splendid and convincing arguments of the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down, in support of the amendment which he had moved at the end of his speech. He merely rose, as an individual member, to answer the challenge of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who called upon the Members who had recently returned from amongst their constituents to express their opinion on this subject; and in so doing he should explain the reason of the vote which he should afterwards feel called upon to give on the motion before the House. He really was quite unaware, before he heard the speech of the Chan-
 * 881 882
 Mr. H. G. Ward  assured the House, that he never felt more reluctance in rising to address the House than he did when he followed a man enjoying talents and influence like those of the right hon. Baronet whose speech he had just heard. He must be permitted to say, however, with all his admiration and respect for the abilities of that right hon. Gentleman, that he thought his arguments were based on such mistaken principles, that they could not command that weight and consideration, which all that fell from the right hon. Baronet generally did. The right hon. Baronet called upon the House to proceed upon the dictates of justice. But who was to decide what the justice of this case was? Were there not two parties whose claims were to be considered—namely, the persons whose names were on the pension list, the recipients of the public bounty, and the people who contributed the funds, whose Representatives he and hon. Gentlemen there were? Between these two parties the House of Commons had to decide, upon a simple question of justice; and for his own part he could declare that no taunts or insinuations should deter him from doing what he considered right and equitable. The party on his side of the House were taunted with being driven to support this motion by the apprehension of losing some portion of their popularity out of doors. For himself he could only say, that he came into this House
 883 884 885 summum jus summa injuria, 886 887
 Mr. Acland  was anxious to answer the question of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, who had asked what was justice, and who seemed to rest satisfied with such answers as he himself had given. But although he rose on the second bench on his side of the House, as the hon. Gentleman had spoken from the second bench on the opposite side, he had not had the benefit of any of that communication with the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) which had been so constant on the other side betwixt the leaders of the party and the Members on the second bench. He would confess that he expected the hon. Gentleman would have shown some great difference betwixt what was justice in 1830, and what was to be justice in 1837. The hon. Gentleman, however, had not done so, and had left the difference unexplained. He thought the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be greatly pleased with the support which had been given him by the hon. Member who had last spoken. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the  onus probandi primâ facie 888 primâ facie primâ facie 889
 Mr. Wilbraham  was of opinion, that the motion of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would do justice to all parties. However anxious, from feeling, he might be to allow these pensions, yet when he heard them contended for on the ground of right he felt bound to rise and oppose such a doctrine. It was a dangerous principle to hold that those pensions were in the nature of a freehold, and that they were not to be questioned. He considered those pensions drawn from the pockets of the people, and when they were taking away two or three shillings from the poor on the ground of economy, he conceived the House bound to take the first opportunity of investigating the grounds on which the pensions on the list had been granted. It was not, however, the amount of which the people complained, but of the principle on which those pensions had been granted. They considered the principle to be an improper one, and the question of the pension list had created more excitement in the country than any other. By giving pensions to improper persons, Government deprived itself of the means of rewarding distinguished merit; and when he saw one of the greatest philosophers of the age receiving only 250 l l l
 Mr. Plumptre  was understood to say, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, would not be disappointed in the expectation which he had expressed of having his (Mr. Plumptre's) vote on the present occasion. He had before voted for inquiry, and he had heard nothing that night to change the opinions which he formerly entertained, and still
 890
 Mr. Pendarves  was very glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, come forward and propose this investigation, and he would most willingly give his vote for the Committee.
 Captain Wood  rose and said, that nothing but the feeling that he was the representative of a large and most important constituency could have induced him to trespass on the time of the House. Before he expressed his sentiments on the question which had been brought under their consideration, he wished to state that there was a name of a near relative of his on the pension list, and, if any hon. Member thought that that circumstance influenced him in the decision of the important question before the House, he would at once explain the circumstances under which that pension had been granted. Should he state the case? If they would allow him he was anxious to state the matter to the House, that they might see there was no reason why he should be actuated by any personal or private feelings in expressing his sentiments on the pension list. He would, then, explain the grant of a pension to his relative. The gentleman to whom he alluded had been secretary to Lord Castlereagh, and when that noble Lord retired from office after the Walcheren expedition, and in consequence of his disagreement with Mr. Canning, the gentleman in question was appointed by Lord Castlereagh to the situation of Vendue Master at Malta. The situation was an extremely lucrative one, and the Government, wishing to make some change,
 891 l 892
 Colonel Sibthorp  begged to congratulate the right hon. Baronet near him upon the convincing speech of that evening, the most powerful appeal which he had ever heard within the walls of the House. He had not originally intended to address the House upon this question, but when the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for what reasons he best knew, seemed to look at him at the outset of his speech, and did him the honour, too, of introducing into it the name of so humble a person, he had thought, perhaps, that the right hon. Gentleman meant to question that consistency of conduct which, through good report and evil report, he had ever endeavoured to maintain. It would be well for the right hon. Gentleman if he could lay claim to the possession of the same consistency. He feared that the course which the right hon. Gentleman had chosen to adopt, with reference to the question now under the consideration of the House, must for ever preclude him from being able to apply to himself the line of the satirist—
 "Nullius addictus jurare in verba magistri."— "Tempora mutantur, et nos mutamur in illis?" 893 l l l
 Sir Charles Douglas  begged the attention of the House for a few moments, whilst he protested against the species of intimidation by which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer sought to coerce the recently-elected Representatives of large constituencies. He was a recently-elected Member, and he would not be deterred by any threats from expressing his opinion on every political subject that might come under discussion. Although recently elected, he was a Member of a former Parliament, and present at the settlement of the civil list by Lord Althorp. He well remembered having perfectly concurred in the plan of that noble Lord, who would have his respect to the last moment of his existence. Concurring in that settlement, he would now give his decided support to the resolutions of the right hon.
 894
 Mr. Milnes  said, that after the crushing speech of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, it was not for a neophyte like him to enter into any detailed argument upon this question. The hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House had spoken of the introduction into this debate of topics appealing to the passions. Now the only topic to which such a description could apply, was one which had been casually introduced a few nights since by the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Southwark; a topic which had been commented on by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and to which he (Mr. Milnes) did not deny the possession of some validity. He alluded to the analogy which that Gentleman attempted to draw between the concession of the pension list, and the conduct which, in certain instances, had been recently exhibited towards the poor of England. He had risen for the sole purpose of protesting against so monstrous an imputation, against such detestable sophistry as to assume that, because they showed themselves unwilling to violate in cold blood
 896
 Lord Ebrington  would assure the hon. Gentleman who had just sat clown, that it was not his intention, in any observations which he might think it his duty to make, to allude either to him or to any other hon. Gentleman at his side of the House, or to attribute to them any other than the best and purest motives for their conduct. His object in rising was in order that, as his vote that night would in some degree be at variance with that which he had given on a former occasion, he might state to the House, as briefly as he could, his reasons for that change. He trusted he might, in the outset, be permitted to say that he was under no pledge to his constituents on this subject, as, knowing the part he had taken on former occasions, they had never pressed him upon it. In order that he might explain to the House any apparent inconsistency in his conduct, he would state his belief that the long possession of pensions constituting a sort of prescription, gave to the persons holding them a strong claim, and that, if he yielded upon this subject only to his own feelings and inclinations, independently of those feelings which a consideration of the public service prompted, he should not be disposed to yield this motion his support. But he felt constrained to remember that he had a public duty to discharge. Hon. Members had alluded during the course of debate to the new Poor Law Act. It had been part of his duty to curtail a portion of those allowances that were made to paupers under the old law, and, therefore he felt that he must not flinch from doing his duty with respect to the rich. However he might expose himself to the charge of inconsistency, he hoped he should, from his general conduct, obtain credit from both sides of the House for
 897
 Sir E. Sugden  was anxious to call back the attention of the House to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, which, if it were intended to guard against improper grants of pensions in future, should have been supported, he thought, on Parliamentary grounds. The House knew that as the resolutions were intended to be embodied in an act of Parliament, which was to be the guide of future Ministers of the Crown, there could be no motive for looking into the pension list in reference to past giants. An inquiry into past grants could not, therefore, have any effect on future giants. The proposition was for an inquiry into all the past grants, without exception, and he should apprehend that there were men in that House who had made up their minds upon the subject, without reference to any discussion upon the merits of the question. This was a question on which every Member must give an answer to his constituents, and therefore they were bound to hear, not one side only, but both and all sides—not only that side which hon. Gentlemen chose to call the popular side, but also that which they also called, and with equal fairness, the unpopular side. "This is not a time," continued the right hon. and learned Gentlemen, "to refuse to hear both sides." The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had examined many cases, and, as the result of his examination, he had told the House that in none of those cases was there any thing to confirm the doubts he had held with regard to them. Was there any reason, therefore, that he should stigmatise those pensions with the character of fraud and corruption? Was there any reason for any further inquiry? The right hon. Gentleman after that statement had proposed to the House a motion which went to stigmatise with fraud and corruption some of the best men, and some of the best blood, in the country. The right hon. Gentleman charged those who sat on his (Sir E. Sugden's) side of the House with inconsistency while the fact was, that it was the right hon. Gentleman and his friends who were inconsistent. In 1830, her Majesty's Ministers held a different opinion; but a change in those opinions had been brought about by the pressure of parties. There were many more reasons for inquiring into the subject
 898
 Mr. Harvey  hoped the House would favour him with their attention while he addressed a few observations to them on this question. In the first place he wished to remove an impression under which an hon. Member appeared, in common with many other hon. Members, to labour, namely, that the motion which had now been brought forward by her Majesty's Government, was the result of some suspicious compromise which had taken place between her Majesty's Government and the Radical Reformers. For himself, he might be allowed to say, although at the hazard of whatever imputation might be thrown upon him, that when he entered the House on the night of the discussion of the civil list, he had no reason for believing but that the amendment which he had it in contemplation to propose would be resisted, and would be resisted as effectually as any of his former propositions. He would also say, that up to the present hour he was not aware whether or not he was to be a member of the Committee. If, therefore, hon. Members were apprehensive of his disposition to inquire too closely into such matters—if they thought he entertained too great an anxiety to pry into the circumstances under which pensions had been granted by either party—the best course they could adopt, in order to relieve themselves from those apprehensions, was to omit his name altogether. He thanked the Government most sincerely, and he congratulated Government, for having at length emancipated themselves from the thraldom on this subject, under which they had hitherto laboured. He rejoiced extremely that they did now, and that in a most intelligible and efficient manner, what he believed they must deeply regret they had not done at a former period. By their conduct at a former period they had furnished arguments to their opponents at present; for, he would ask, but for Lord Althorp's letter—but for Lord Althorp's resolution—but for the report of the former Committee, declaring that there should be no inquiry — where would the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, have been that night? Those
 899 900 901 l l l l 902 "Which sees with equal eye, as God of all, A hero perish, or a sparrow fall." 903 904 905 906 907 908 s 909 910
 Lord Stanley  said, if one fortnight ago I had been asked who would be the person who, at the close of these tumultuous cheers, would now, as upon many previous occasions have greeted the conclusion of the speech of the hon. Member for Southwark —if, I say, I had been asked who, at the close of those cheers, would be the first to rise with alacrity, and on the foundation of the policy of the Government, their past professions and principles, their constant and continued course of adherence
 911 912 Cheers. 913 * * 914 915 * * 916 917 * l * 918 * * 919 920 l 921 l 922 l 923 Coriolanus, " It is a part That I shall blush in acting— To brag unto them. Thus I did, and thus; Show them the unaching scars, which I should hide, As if I had received them for the hire Of their breath only." 924
 Lord John Russell : In rising, Sir, to address this House, I should not have thought that any Member of this Assembly, after the imputations which in the course of this debate have been thrown out, would have denied me the opportunity of replying to them. I remember perfectly well, Sir, that when in the year 1829 the right hon. Baronet opposite, after a long debate, began his reply to the observation which had been made upon the measure of Catholic emancipation; his first and most impressive observation was, that three-fourths of the debate had been filled with personal recriminations; and I must say, Sir, considering that the only motive for their present opposition avowed by hon. Gentlemen opposite is a deep sense of public justice, and judging from the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord, a love of justice to an opponent is marvellously prevalent among them. It has been contended that the Government, in giving its support to this motion, entirely abandons the principles which they formerly professed; but, at the same time, I must point out that notwithstanding this the Government may not so entirely concur in the terms of the motion, but that they, nevertheless, may think it matter which the House may adopt in its discretion; and the speeches
 925 926 "He was aware that many persons held pensions who had public employment for which they received remuneration, or who had other property on which they could depend for support; and, although he could not enter into the feelings of others, yet he was ready to declare that if placed in such a position, in being possessed of means of supporting himself, and, at the same time, that he was entitled to receive a pension, he would not, under such circumstances, consent that the payment of the pension should be continued to him. The question, then, before the House was simply this, would the House, by its vote, deprive those of their pensions who had a legal right to receive them?" * * 927 928 929
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : The proposition of the right hon. Baronet opposite amounts to this, that provision shall be made to enable the Crown to continue the whole of the pensions, whether continued by the Crown on the accession of the late King, or subsequently granted by his Majesty. This amounts, then, to a resolution that the House shall without any inquiry vote an annuity of 150,000 l 930 931 "I have already told the electors of Cambridge that I was not prepared to resume what had been conveyed to individuals by the law of the land, and by these sentiments I am willing to abide. Be the origin of the Act rightful or objectionable, as relating to those who advised it, have not these parties who hold under these grants the security of an Act of Parliament—passed after full deliberation, with all means of inquiry in our power—passed, too, above all, with the character of a compact? —I say that these parties have a peculiar right, and a right, too, that from our engagements with the Crown is of the nature of a compact entered into by the Legislature, after full deliberation and with all the means of judging in its power; for, during all the discussions on the Civil List Act and the other act alluded to, this pension list was in the hands of hon. Members who were then, as now, aware of all the objections existing against it. The question was then an open question—till these statutes were passed—but it is no longer so. At present, the motion, if it be made, ought to be framed, not with a view to strike out certain parties from this list, but to censure the House and Government for passing those acts. I have said that these engagements were in the nature of a contract. At the time of the accession of his present Majesty, we obtained from his Majesty an entire and absolute abandonment, not only of the hereditary revenue which upon any former occasion had been surrendered by the Crown, but of other revenues which, up to that moment, had been kept within its uncontrolled dominion. The House of Commons looked naturally, but it looked justly, to the restriction of this vote for pensions; and therefore the Committee suggested, and the House and Legislature acquiesced in the suggestion, that there should be imposed a limitation on the civil list pensions greater than was ever agreed to by any former Sove-
 932 l 933 l.
 Sir R. Peel  had not the least objection to the motion. As he found that the Bill was not intended by the hon. Mover to have any reference to pending elections, he should give it his best consideration, and in the discussion of it he should, as far as possible, endeavour to allay all party differences.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to know from the
 938
 Mr. C. Buller  replied, that he had not the slightest intention of leaving that clause in the Bill. Its insertion in the Bill was a mere mistake from a copy of a Bill of last Session. He felt considerable uneasiness on account of that clause, in consequence of the observations made respecting it, as some parties might think that he could be guilty of the attempt to play them a trick. He was thoroughly convinced that his Bill, upon being agreed to, ought to be brought into operation immediately. He should propose no change now, as the Bill was only  pro forma
 Mr. Colquhoun  rose to put a question to the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, respecting some proceedings in the city of Waterford, of which he took it for granted that that noble Lord was cognizant. He was alluding to a violent riot which recently took place within the cathedral church of that city—a riot which had suspended the performance of the Protestant service, and which had terminated in the expulsion of the Protestant clergy from their own church—a riot at which the police were present, and of which the authorities at Waterford must have been fully cognizant. The question to which he wished to obtain an answer was this—"Has the Irish Government issued any orders directing an inquiry to be instituted into the conduct of the au-
 943
 Mr. Hume  begged leave to ask what course the right hon. Gentleman intended to take on going into Committee? He was anxious that the House should not be pledged to any particular line, as the report had been only that morning placed in the hands of Members.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was quite true, as the hon. Gentleman had stated, that the report had only been placed in the hands of Members that day, but every possible effort had been made to give it publicity and circulation. He was about to propose resolutions carrying into effect its recommendations, with the view of introducing a Bill, in the future stages of which opportunities would be afforded of discussing every point that might be raised. In the present state of business, and when they were close on the holidays, he trusted the hon. Member would offer no opposition to the resolutions. He should move them without offering any observations, but he would pledge himself to the House, that the order of the day should be brought on at an early and con-
 946
 Mr. Harvey  said, be understood the right hon. Gentleman proposed to defer any discussion on the subject till Friday. It would be convenient to him to know that on that occasion he (Mr. Harvey) would press for a definitive answer from Government as to their intention in reference to the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster. He would also ask in what way they proposed to deal with that very considerable source of income, hitherto in the enjoyment of the Crown, arising from the estates of persons dying intestate without heirs?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, as the last was a very complicated question, perhaps the hon. Member would put it in writing. He (Mr. Rice) would endeavour to get an answer from the Lords of the Treasury, which he trusted would prove satisfactory; if it were not so, the hon. Member might repeat the question on a future day.
 Mr. Hume  had not heard anything in the resolution respecting Cornwall or Lancaster. He wished to know whether the revenues of those two duchies were to be surrendered?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : Certainly not. He had never for one moment considered that they were to be surrendered, and they did not pass under the title of revenues of the Crown.
 Mr. Hume  had great objection to the exclusion of these revenues. On a former occasion, when a Bill passed the House containing the same words, a noble and learned Lord, then a Member of that House, said they had been taken by surprise, and the right hon. Gentleman himself, if he recollected rightly, contended that the revenues of the duchies came within the meaning of the resolution. He should say nothing more on the subject, as he now found they were excluded, but he had one observation to make. He hoped that the time had now arrived when the droits of the Admiralty would be abolished, since a more barefaced robbery had never been committed on a highway than the levying of these droits of Admiralty on the sea. From 1790 till the end of the war, individual property to the value of 12,000,000 l. 948
 Mr. Wallace  wished to call the attention of the House to the petition of Mr. Henry Jones, complaining of the dilatory proceedings of the Sessions Court in Scotland. He believed it had fallen to the lot of no hon. Member before to have had occasion to present two petitions from one individual during the progress of a single lawsuit, but this was the second petition which he had presented from this individual since the proceedings to which the petitioner referred, had commenced. They had had a discussion a few days ago about the Danish claims, and he thought that they would find money enough to satisfy those claims within five years if they appropriated to that purpose the salaries of the useless judges in Scotland. They were to have a Committee upon the pension list, but they ought to have a Committee to inquire into the sinecure offices of the judges of the county courts in Scotland, as well as to those who were not required in the court of session. There were in all fourteen judges who did not sit more than live months in the year, not longer on the average, than two hours a day, during that period. These judges were, moreover, far advanced in life. One of them was
 964
 Lord J. Russell : A Bill on the subject
 945
 Lord J. Russell  appeared at the bar, and in answer to a question from the Speaker, replied that he brought down to the House a message from the Crown. The noble Lord, having been ordered to bring it up, placed it in the hands of the Speaker, who proceeded to read it, having first ordered hon. Members to be uncovered.
 "Victoria Regina, "Her Majesty, taking into consideration the provision made by law for the support of her Royal Highness, the Duchess of Kent, her beloved mother, recommends this subject to the care of her faithful Commons, in the full confidence that they will adopt such measures as her Royal Highness's rank and station, and her increased proximity to the throne, may seem to require."
 Lord J. Russell  had already stated that he did not object to the substance of the motion. He would object, however, to the giving the names of the policemen who had been sent down to Bradford, for he supposed that the same course that was pursued at Bradford by the opponents of the new Poor-law Act might be adopted elsewhere. When the Commissioners formed a union, it had been the practice of those who were opposed to the new system to call on the people by placards, by speeches, and other means to mark those who were active in forwarding the objects of the Commissioners. Now, as he was not disposed to assist the views of such opponents of the measure, in a course which might lead to assassination, he would not consent to give the names of those men who were sent down from London to Bradford. He would observe, with respect to the course taken by the Poor-law Commissioners, that when they directed the formation of a union at Bradford and its vicinity, they did not send down any set of rules or regulations as to the manner in which relief should be given, further than that it should be by the board of guardians, instead of the overseers, as before. It was left to the guardians to direct the administration of relief according to their discretion under the Act. When he had been asked last year as to the intentions of Government in applying the new Act to the manufacturing districts, he had said that the Government would proceed with caution, that it was not intended to apply it at once to those districts, but that in those districts where a union was practicable and advisable, the Government would not allow the plan to be resisted by force, and that where such force was used, it should be at once met by force on the part of the
 959 960
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that the hon. Gentleman who spoke last did not seem to have well considered the suggestion which he had made. The proposition which he made if acceded to, instead of being an application of the workhouse test, would prove a recurrence to the old system of making allowance to parents. He owned he was afraid of a relaxation of this rule, particularly from the effect which he apprehended it would have of lowering wages.
 Mr. Darby  explained. He did not intend that the scale for affording relief, such as giving it to all children above five years of age, should be observed, but that when the parents who had married under the old law were not able to maintain their children, the board of guardians should have the discretion of assisting them.
 Mr. Darby  suggested that, as it seemed intended that the law should undergo some change in the manufacturing districts he hoped that an amendment could be made in it to meet the cases of those who in the agricultural parishes had large families about them, having married under the old system. He had taken part in managing a large parish for nearly three years, and he had been since chairman of a board of guardians. His experience proved
 962
 Sir G. Sinclair  rose and said, that he thought he could not embrace a more favourable opportunity for asking her Majesty's Ministers whether they intended to introduce, and at how early a period, any Bill relating to the Irish Church? As long as they occupied the Opposition benches, nothing would go down with them but tithe bills and appropriation clauses. His right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, had been precluded by factious proceedings on these subjects from bringing forward many salutary measures of great importance, but it seemed
 944
 Mr. George F. Young  said, that the great objection to the New Poor-law Act was, that it attempted to apply an uniformity of system to places where such uniformity was absolutely impracticable. The system might be made to work well in agricultural districts, but it would not apply to manufacturing districts, and to large masses of the people. If he had understood one remark of the noble Lord it was, that the Poor-law Commissioners did not interfere at Bradford beyond the formation of the union, but that there was no interference with the board of guardians. If so, then what had Mr. Power, the Assistant Poor-law Commissioner to do at Bradford? He also thought it was wrong to send down any of the London police to Bradford. It was not fair to the people of London, who were so heavily taxed, to pay that force. He was aware that 60,000 l.
 Mr. Briscoe  said, he was struck with one observation of the hon. Member for Oldham, that there were 25,000 handloom weavers in that district whose earnings did not exceed 4 s. d s.
 Mr. Brocklehurst  said, he had listened with no small degree of pain to the statement, made by several hon. Members in reference to the working of the Poor-law Act in the northern manufacturing districts, and he felt himself compelled to rise when he heard the lamentable condition of 25,000 weavers so hastily disposed of by hon. Gentlemen below him. Now what did all those complaints and opposition prove, but that something was very wrong? yet, in all that he had heard to-night, no one had referred to what he believed to be the root of the evil. In all the attacks made in that House and on hustings, the remedy had been always kept out of sight, and persons had contented themselves about regulating dietary tables and the separation of the members of families; but would these regulations make the people pros-
 963
 Mr. Fielden  rose to bring before the House the painful occurrence that had given rise to the motion of which he had given notice—the collision between her Majesty's troops and her Majesty's subjects in the town of Bradford, in Yorkshire. He regretted that neither the Members of the borough nor the Members for the West Riding of Yorkshire, in which the borough was situate, had thought it their duty to bring this grave subject before the House. This being the case, he had been requested to do so, and from that duty he should not shrink, but he had to lament that the affair had not been brought forward in the House by some Gentleman more competent to do justice to the subject. Before this House was reformed an unfortunate collision like the one at Bradford would have been noticed in the House without any delay, and if the reformed House neglected to inquire into the circumstances attending the disturbances at Bradford, it would, in his opinion, be guilty of a dereliction of duty. The cause of the disturbance arose out of an attempt now making to introduce the New Poor-law Bill into the Bradford Union. The facts were these:—A preliminary meeting of the guardians was held in the town on October 30, at which meeting Mr. Power, one of the assistant-commissioners attended. Some manifestations of dislike to the New Poor-law were shown by 200 or 300 persons assembled on this occasion, and Mr. Power, on his way from where the meeting was held to the inn, had some marks of personal disrespect shown to him, and appeared to be the object of attack by the crowd. The whole, however, was nothing more than a schoolboy's affray, and might have been prevented by timely interference by constables of the town. This meeting
 949 950 Bradford Observer, 951 952 "Mr. M. Thompson was received with loud cheers, and said, that he felt it to be most conscientiously his duty to come forward on that occasion, in defence of the poor, the weak, and unoffending, who might be reduced by misfortune, and not by crime, to the necessity of applying for relief to the great national charity, first legally established in the latter part of Queen Elizabeth's reign. By that act (43d Elizabeth) was the foundation of the poor man's hope laid—by that was his legal claim established, to support in need., in age, in his infirmity—by that was his claim settled, to demand the aid of his wealthier neighbour in the day of his destitution and distress. This was the English law, but this claim was settled by a higher law still—that of nature, and above all, that of God [hear, hear,]; and he would assert, in direct opposition to the spirit and clauses of the present most objectionable act, that the poor man in the day of his distress had, both from reason and Scripture, a claim upon the funds of his richer neighbour, and that not to be considered as a been nor as a loan, but as a right. For 300 years this right, established by law, coevally with our Protestant Church, had remained undisputed until the present act emerged from the dark cave of its fabricators—an act which from the first he had, and to the last he should, he must, most decidedly disapprove. He would not condemn every part of it, however; the clauses relating to settlement and removal were decidedly good, and yet capable of further improvement; let them, however, approach the august assembly of the legislature with firmness, and yet with all due deference and respect; and he would hope that its obnoxious clauses would be either modified or repealed as the case required. Those relating to bastardy he considered to be among the worst of them. By them, that is, by their practical working, the seducer of the weaker sex was allowed to go unscathed; and the whole onus of the crime, as to present consequences, was laid upon the, too often, least guilty party. He would most confidently state, upon his own experience, as a magistrate, that so far from bastardy having decreased, it had most fearfully augmented. His frequent communications with the overseers and parish officers around had convinced him that this was the case. Affiliations had, indeed, nearly ceased, but illicit connexion and births had not diminished. He declared that the Commissioners were incapable of judging of the state and merits of the poor; and that this law gave the guardians no power to dispense relief except by certain arbitrary and fixed rules, made by three strangers in London; and that the rate-payers, or their responsible representatives (which the guardians were not), were far more likely to be
 953 954 Leeds Mercury Leeds Mercury, "I beg most distinctly to state my former objections to those parts of the Poor-law Amendment Act I have expressed as objectionable are not removed; and when an opportunity offers I shall be amongst the first to petition Parliament for an alteration of the Act. The clauses 79 to 84 I have always approved; experience has shown that great expense in litigation has been saved, and the comforts of the non-settled poor considerably increased. "MATTHEW THOMPSON. "Masingham-lodge, Nov. 8." 955 s. d. s. d. d. 956 957 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
 The Lord Advocate  hoped, before the House adjourned that he would be afforded an opportunity of saying a very few words in reference to what had been advanced by the hon. Member, with respect to the particular case which the hon. Member had made the occasion of introducing a great variety of topics. As he was in ignorance of the circumstances of that case he could not of course enter into them; but a delay of four years in the final decision of proceedings was not greater than had often occurred in the courts here. It was no unusual thing for a suit to be delayed for a period of four years in the courts here, and he believed, in the course of a discussion that occurred a few nights ago, the Attorney-General had incidentally mentioned a case in which he was engaged where the delay was equally great. The hon. Member was quite mistaken in his statement respecting sinecure judges. There was one eminent judge of great age, but remarkable for preserving undiminished his great powers, and that judge feeling himself perfectly able to do so, still continued in the performance of his duties. He did not think that whilst
 965
 Mr. Brotherton  believed, that it had been satisfactorily proved to the House
 961
 Mr. Grimsditch  knew that the present motion had been decided on from facts which had occurred. He thought it utterly impossible that the Poor-law Amendment Act could work in these districts. He would just allude to the situation of the union of Macclesfield. This union had been in operation nearly two years, and he held in his hand copies of some of the quarterly accounts, showing the number of persons who had been relieved, and the amount expended; but so great was the number of paupers that he thought it impossible to manage this union according to the new workhouse system. The guardians had purchased a quantity of land for the purpose of building a new workhouse, but this they afterwards abandoned. The union consisted of forty-one townships, extending over 60,500 acres, and with a population of 50,000. For the quarter ending 25th March, 1837, he found, exclusive of those to whom relief was afforded by the workhouse, 3,040 had received out-door relief; for the quarter ending 24th June, the number was 4,447; and for the quarter ending 29th September, 4,587. He would put it to the good sense and feeling of the House whether Government ought not to take these circumstances into consideration, and he would ask whether it was possible that any union could accommodate such a mass of people? He felt assured it was impossible, and he was anxious that the Poor-law Commissioners should take it into consideration as the first point of their inquiry. He was certain that hon. Members would be convinced by the returns he moved for that it was impossible to apply this system universally.
 Mr. Wakley,  in seconding the motion, said, that it was not his intention to enter then into the question of the Poor-laws, as there was a Committee sitting on the subject. He hoped that any one who felt himself aggrieved under the new system, at Bradford or elsewhere, would come forward. A Committee had been sitting for now two Sessions on this subject, but their inquiries would be utterly useless, and it would be useless for individuals to complain of the new Poor-law system, unless they sent the fullest information as to the grounds of their complaints before the Committee.
 Lord Morpeth , in reply to the question just put to him, observed, that in consequence of a memorial which had been sent to the Irish Government from Waterford, stating the circumstances which had occurred there, the following answer had been written by the Under Secretary for Ireland by the authority of the Lords justices of that county. The noble Lords then proceeded to read a letter signed by Mr. Drummond, in which it was stated that the Lords justices had received a memorial, signed by several respectable inhabitants of the city of Waterford, complaining of a violent outrage committed in the cathedral of that city, and that they had directed him to inform the memorialists that no time should be lost in commencing a full inquiry into the truth of their complaints. It further stated, that if the allegations set forth in their memorial should be substantiated, the memorialists might rely upon the assurance of Government that it would use its best endeavours to bring to justice all who were engaged in so disgraceful an outrage, and that it would direct the local authorities, whose duty it was to preserve the peace, to take every precaution for the prompt suppression of such disturbances in future. A copy of the memorial and the answer had been sent to the Mayor of Waterford, and he had been required to make a report and observations thereupon. The Inspector General of the Constabulary had also been ordered to inquire into the conduct of the police on that occasion.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the prayer of the petition, and said, that he had been informed by a person of good faith, that Mr. Bolton, the chief justice of that island, had been at the head of an exceedingly bitter and malignant persecution of the Roman Catholics of that island.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he had not the least doubt that the persons confined for the murder were innocent; but there was such an entire system of combination, that be thought it ought to be inquired into, or
 988
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that he did not think this was a fit subject for legislation. He thought the Bill would work great hardship and injustice if it were allowed to pass, as it would have the effect of depriving married women of what might be their only means of subsistence.
 Mr. O'Connell  hoped, that leave would be given to bring in the Bill, as the House would then have a better opportunity of judging of the plan of the hon. and learned Member.
 Sir R. Peel  did not rise to offer any objection to the introduction of the present Bill, but merely to express a hope that her Majesty's Government would consider the bearing which these individual acts of legislation would have upon the general statute law of the country. They had appointed Commissioners with a view to consolidate the law, and if individual Members, although with the best intentions, brought in Bills without a full consideration of the bearing of their individual propositions upon the general statute law, he was afraid that the statute law would become more complex and confused than it was at present, and their desire to consolidate it would be defeated by the introduction of these individual measures. The hon. and learned Member had no less than five distinct notices on the books. Now, if other hon. Gentlemen followed his example, he (Sir R. Peel) was afraid that the result would be a still further complication of the law than that which at present existed.
 The Solicitor-General  concurred in the general observations of the right hon. Baronet; but with regard to the present Bill he thought the law was open to much amendment, and that at least the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to be al-
 989
 Mr. Pringle  said, he had never heard the names till then, and he must confess that he heard them with considerable surprise. He had hoped that the Members of the Committee of last year would have been re-appointed, at least so many as were still in the House, if it was expected that the Committee should draw up a fair report. At present it appeared to him that the names had been selected in such a manner as best to ensure a report favourable to the hon. Member's (Mr. Horsman's) own views. He would move that the names of the hon. Members who constituted the Committee should be again restored to the list; and if that were not complied with, he would move that the consideration of the nomination be adjourned to a future day. He thought that he had reason to complain that the hon. Member for Cockermouth should have nominated this Committee without holding some communication on the subject with the opposition side of the House.
 Mr. Horsman  said, that it was impossible that the hon. Member could have heard the names of the Committee, or he would not have brought an accusation of unfairness against him. There certainly was one charge to which he must plead guilty. It might be for want of discernment on his part, but he was not aware that the hon. Member for Selkirkshire was the authorised medium of communication with the other side of the House. He had thought it his duty to communicate with an hon. Member on the other side of the House, who had been a Member of the Committee of last year: he alluded to the hon. Baronet the Member for Buckingham (Sir T. Fremantle.) There was one objection to the course proposed by the hon. Member for Selkirkshire; namely, that if hon. Members told him that they had
 990
 Sir R. Peel  considered that the mode adopted by the hon. Mover was perfectly satisfactory. The principle on which the Committee was appointed appeared to him to be a fair one, but he hoped that the nomination of the Committee would be delayed for at least twenty-four hours, in order that hon. Members on the opposition side of the House might have an opportunity of considering the subject.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that certainly the hon. Member for Cockermouth had consulted with him as to the names, and they had entered into the arrangement mentioned; but of course that arrangement was in no way binding on the House—it was merely a matter of convenience to both parties, which was usual in such cases. He must, however, say that he had not seen the names of the present Committee before. He understood that the names of the Members of the Committee of last year would have been retained as far as it was possible to do so, but he found several Gentlemen who had not served on the last Committee proposed now. These were Mr. R. Stewart, Lord J. Stewart, Mr. E. Ellice, junr., and Mr. Gillon. He must therefore protest against his name being used as agreeing to this Committee, which had to inquire into a matter involving a great deal of party interest.
 Mr. Horsman  said, that he did not say that the hon. Baronet had seen the names of the Committee. All he said was that the hon. Baronet agreed to substitute the names of two Gentlemen from his own side of the House in the room of two other gentlemen of the same political opinions
 991
 Sir E. Sugden , after admitting the importance of the subject matter of this Bill, and of the other Bills for which the hon. Member had given notice for this evening, expressed his disapproval of the practice which had lately grown into use in this House of introducing Bills without general statements of their objects and utility, and reserving all debate upon the subject of them till their subsequent stages. This practice, instead of throwing the  onus onus
 Mr. Lynch  said, that the subjects which these Bills embraced had been considered in Committee, and he had taken care to guard against the objections which had formerly been urged.
 Viscount Morpeth  observed, that these Bills had been introduced last Session, and contained many valuable suggestions. He certainly thought it would be an ad-
 992
 Colonel Evans  said, that was the second time he had been doomed to listen to the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Borthwick) on so grave a subject as the affairs of Spain. It was not his intention to say anything on this occasion calculated to excite dis-
 1004 1005
 Colonel Evans  said, he had nothing to complain of on the ground of courtesy with respect to the right hon. Gentleman, nor had anything been said by him which he could feel as unpalatable. He was glad, however, that the opportunity would be afforded to him to bring the general subject forward. With regard to what the hon. Member (Mr. Borthwick) had said about his being actuated by feelings of humanity, and not by political motives, all he could say was, that it was this observation which had caused him to rise. He said that, on the score of humanity, and without any reference whatever to policy, Don Carlos was the last description of prince who was entitled to either the sympathy or compassion of that House.
 Colonel Evans  said, that the hon. Member had asserted the privileged right of a Member of that House to speak freely of the public conduct of any individual. As far as the general conduct of any individual, he did not mean to deny that right. But did the hon. Member mean to say that there was any instance of a similar course to that which had been pursued towards him and the troops under his command? If the hon. Member could point out any instance where a similar course had been pursued towards a British officer or the troops under his command as had been pursued in his case he would then consent to the applicability of the vague generality which the hon. Member had put forward.
 Colonel Evans  said, that any irritability that had been evinced might arise from the fact that he had used one or two words which might have been misinterpreted. He had spoken of calumny and asperity; but he used those expressions in reference to the conduct of the public press, which had received countenance in that House, and he would take for granted that nothing had occurred which was in any way unparliamentary.
 Sir H. Vivian  was present when the right hon. and gallant Officer (Sir H. Hardinge) brought forward his motion respecting Spain, and he was ready to say that both that gallant Officer and the seconder of the motion had treated the question in that manner which his hon. and gallant Friend had a right to expect. He regretted that many severe expressions had been made use of concerning the troops under the command of his hon. and gallant Friend. Those troops had been subjected to misfortune; but they had conducted themselves on all occasions with a gallantry that was creditable to them as British soldiers. With respect to the cruelties that had taken place, it would be hard to hold his hon. and gallant Friend accountable for them. He hoped whenever they came to the discussion of this subject they would enter upon it without asperity towards his hon. and gallant Friend, or the troops engaged under his orders.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  hoped, that the right hon. Baronet would not allow this matter to rest, but would come forward with some distinct proposition upon it. He (Mr. O'Brien) had no doubt that the great majority of the house would agree with the right hon. Gentleman that some distinct notice ought to be given of the names proposed to be placed upon the Committee.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was not one of those who agreed with the hon. Member that a candidate for a seat in Parliament ought to be absolved from all expense whatever, nor was he of opinion that any Member ought to be paid for coming to that House. He should not object to the bill being brought in, but he should certainly oppose any clause that went to make liberal treatment of the voters illegal. He wished to ask the hon. Member when he intended to move the second reading of the bill.
 Mr. Hume  was anxious to have the Bill printed, in order that Gentlemen might be acquainted with its provisions, and he should propose that on the third Wednesday in Feburary it should be read a second time. The clause against treating had been expunged from the Bill, in consequence of a similar clause having been inserted in the Bill introduced last session by the hon. Member for Bradford.
 Sir R. Peel  hoped the House would look steadily at what might be the consequence of that part of the Bill by which it was proposed to relieve candidates from the charge of erecting booths, and of transferring that charge upon the crown or upon the country. At first sight such a proposition did not appear to be an unequitable one; but it behoved the House to look well to what might be the probable
 1028
 Colonel Wood  said, that the Bill of last year was not confined solely to the financial affairs of the county, but interfered with the judicial powers of the magistrates. The county was to be divided into districts, in each district there was to be a paid committee, and a person very much resembling the mayor of a corpora-
 1029
 Lord John Russell  did not intend to oppose the introduction of the Bill; at the same time he was very sorry to hear from the hon. Member that not only the object of the Bill, but a great number of its details, were nearly similar to the Bill of last year. He certainly was in hopes that the hon. Gentleman would have somewhat modified his views, in consequence of the opposition which his former Bill met with. He did not object to the principle of the present Bill, so far as proposing to give to the rate-payers some control over the expenditure of the very large sum of money that came under the head of county-rates. If they looked, on the one hand, to the immense increase of the rates since 1790 and on the other hand, at the decrease that had taken place within the last four or five years in the amount of the poor-rates, he thought it was very natural that a wish should be expressed that that part of the expenditure of the county should be subject to the greater control of those who had to bear the burden than was now obtained. But he owned that the hon. Gentleman did not judge wisely, whatever might be the pro-
 1030 1031
 Mr. Aglionby  was sure that it would be as satisfactory to the country as it was to himself to find that the noble Lord agreed in the principles of this Bill, for there was not one principle to which he had not given his sanction. The great principle of the Bill was to give the rate-payers a voice in the election of the persons who were to disburse the rates, and to allow some control over the power of expenditure. The hon. Member for Lincoln was in error if by his denial he meant to intimate that this Bill interfered with the judicial power of the magistracy. All it did was to vest the financial power in the hands of aboard. The noble Lord had said that the provisions of this Bill would lead to great expense, and if the noble Lord could suggest any more simple machinery, he (Mr. Aglionby) would be exceedingly glad: he feared, however, that the noble Lord would experience great difficulty in so doing. If the present Bill were brought in, the noble Lord would not be precluded from bringing in a better Bill. He strongly supported the object of the present Bill, and though he might think that some of the details could be amended, he was convinced that some measure was necessary to cure the great evils and the most gross expenditure which had formerly taken place. He alluded to the period when the quarter sessions met with closed doors, and when no power was given to the rate-payers to know the application of the money, and when, therefore, there was no control. This system had been altered, however, in many counties through the good sense and wise conduct of the magistracy, who had thrown open the doors, and had thus been the means of effecting great saving in different counties.
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  was glad that the Government intended to take up this question, because he feared that the Bill as it stood last year, instead of decreasing, would have had the effect of increasing' the county-rates. His opinion was, that the ratepayers ought to have a control over
 1032
 Mr. Liddell  declared, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had begun, continued, and ended his speech in misrepresentation. When the hon. Gentleman said that he (Mr. Liddell) had called upon the Government not to extend the act to that part of the country with which he was connected, the hon. Gentleman said that which had no foundation. He only asked the Government not to press the application of that most obnoxious part of the bill which established the workhouse system. As to the authority upon which he (Mr. Liddell) had made his statement, he had only again to repeat that he would not give it up. Rather than give up his authority he would share in any responsibility to which the statement might give rise. As the best proof he could offer of the accuracy of his statement, he should feel it to be his duty to move that there be laid before the Committee the vestry books containing an account of the number of children receiving parochial relief in the borough of Sunderland in the month of February, 1834; and the number to whom relief was extended three months afterwards.
 Mr. Liddell  said, that, called upon as he had been by what had just fallen from the hon. Member, he must beg leave for a short time to request from the House that indulgence which he had never known them refuse to any one under such circumstances. He thanked the hon. Member for having brought forward this subject, and he had no fault to find with the manner in which the hon. Member had done it. Nor had he any difficulty in saying, that if the observations which he had really made had been such as had been attributed to him, the hon. Member would have had a perfect right to call upon him to make an explanation on the subject. The hon. Member had read to the House some resolutions which had recently been agreed to by the board of Guardians at Sunderland. Although he was far from complaining of any general inaccuracy on the part of the newspaper press, and waved all reference to privilege in this particular instance, yet he must observe that persons ought to be condemned on what they had actually said, and not on that which they were only reported to have said. The resolutions of the board of guardians at Sunderland alluded to his speech as reported in  The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle, 1014 1015 1016
 Lord John Russell  said, that, whatever might be the merits of the Poor-law Act, it was very unfortunate, with respect to a measure on which so much difference of opinion existed, that a misstatement should go forth calculated to excite, not merely disapprobation, but horror. He gave every credit to the ton. Member for North Durham for his intentions; but it was hardly fair, on that hon. Gentleman's part, to state rumours on no authority, or on authority which he was not disposed to
 1019
 Lord John Russell  said, that as there was no objection to the production of the papers for which the hon. Gentleman moved, it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the motion. With regard to the discussion of the subject, it was quite clear that the House could not properly judge of its merits without the papers for which the hon. Gentleman called, and when they
 1003
 Lord John Russell  said, there was so little appearance of unwillingness on the part of the House to concur in this vote that he thought it unnecessary to resort to any arguments in its support. As to the time at which the motion was brought forward, it was the opinion of her Majesty's Government that while, on the one hand, this was a matter which did not properly form part of the civil list, the civil list comprehending only the arrangement required for her Majesty, on the other hand it would not have been proper to delay it till after the Christmas recess. He did not think that the state of the House was such as to render it improper at this time to bring forward this subject. It was not a question upon which it was likely there would be any opposition of parties; and it appeared to him that there was a sufficient number of Members present to consider the proposition. He did not think that they could have chosen a more proper time in order to bring forward the subject than the present. He could certainly say that the education given by her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent to her present Majesty was such as to entitle her to the gratitude of the people of this country; because while on the one hand she carefully provided that the Princess should not be confined to the society of any one political party, she did at the same time afford her an opportunity of meeting the most distinguished persons of every division of opinion. He felt, therefore, that the motion proposed was one which ought to be received without
 1046
 Mr. Pringle , aware of the custom and the law of Scotland, could assure the House that upon the statement of the hon. Member for Southwark, which was made with great propriety, no case had been made out for the interference of the House.
 Mr. Andrew White  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to call the attention of the House to certain proceedings of the board of guardians of the Sunderland union. In a recent debate in that House on the manner in which the new poor-law had been administered in the Sunderland district, the hon. Member for North Durham stated, that in Sunderland 200 unhappy children had been left destitute, in consequence of parochial relief having been withdrawn from them. When the report of these observations reached Sunderland it excited the utmost indignation, and the board of guardians of the Sunderland Union immediately met, and agreed to the following resolutions: —
 "At a special meeting of the board of guardians of the Sunderland union, holden at the commission-room in the Exchange, in Sunder-
 1012  The Morning Chronicle "It was unanimously resolved, That the board do give the most unqualified contradiction to the above statement, which they have seen with feelings of surprise and indignation; and that Mr. Liddell should immediately be requested to give up the name of his informant, in order that this atrocious and unfounded imputation may be properly investigated. "It was also resolved, That the clerks do immediately communicate the above resolution to Lord J. Russell (her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department), to the Poor-law Commissioners, to Sir John Walsham, bart., the assistant commissioner for this district, to the Members for this borough, to Mr. Hedworth Lambton, to Mr. Hume, and to Mr. Liddell; and that the same be advertised in  The Sunderland Herald, The Newcastle Courant, The Durham Chronicle, The Morning Chronicle Times "It was also resolved, That the vice-chairman do sign the above resolutions on behalf of the board. (Signed) "THOMAS REED, jun., Vice-Chairman, Sunderland Union." 1013
 Colonel Sibthorp , as one of the "guardians of the public purse," considered it his duty to say a few words on this question. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman would have acted more consistently if he had submitted his proposition to a fuller House: it would have been more satisfactory to the country had this vote been taken when there was a greater number of Members present. He would be one of the last to refuse such a sum as 8,000 l. 1043
 Mr. Poulett Thomson , in replying to the motion, thought it would not be necessary for him to enter into any discussion of the general question of the appointment of Select Committees, because it must be notorious to every body that the Committee to which the right hon. Gentleman's motion related could not have been appointed with any reference to the opinions of either side of the House, or to the manner in which parties were separated. The object that his hon. Friend had in the appointment of the Committee was to select, as far as possible, Gentlemen who were not in any way connected with party or influenced by party views—gentlemen who were the most likely to give the best attention to the subject. He thought that the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman was objectionable on two grounds. In the first place, it appeared to him that as the House had laid down a rule that the Members of Committees should be limited to fifteen, it would be very undesirable, except on some very extraordinary grounds, to deviate from that rule. There was also this further objection: he had already stated that this Committee had nothing to do with the party politics and party views of the two sides into which the House was ranged. Therefore the deduction which the right hon. Gentleman had endeavoured
 1024
 Mr. Harvey  rose and said, that whatever might be the opinion of the House with respect to the presentation of petitions not having a material bearing upon subjects under its consideration, that which had reference to the instant trial or liberation of persons under confinement called for the ready sanction of the House. The petition which he had now the honour to present was from Glasgow, and was signed by twenty thousand persons; and its object was to bring under the consideration of the House the case of five poor citizens of that place, who were placed in confinement by direction of the law officers of the Crown. In bringing this petition forward, he desired it to be understood that he expressed no opinion whatever as to the character of the charges brought against these persons, or whether the parties implicated were guilty or innocent. It was enough for him to bring the matter before the House to enable the law officers of the Crown to give an explanation as to the course which they intended to pursue. It appeared that in June last, eighteen persons, engaged in the weaving of linen, were apprehended, charged with conspiracy, for the purpose of unduly raising the price of wages. They were also charged with combining to administer illegal oaths, and with being implicated in the perpetration of a murder which took place in Glasgow. After undergoing a long examination, five of those persons were sent to prison under this very serious and complicated charge. The remaining thirteen were let out on bail. These five individuals had been imprisoned from June up to that moment. On the 24th of October, they received notice that they would be tried on an indictment—an indictment, be it remembered, which occupied forty-nine long folio pages, containing almost countless counts, and spreading over a long-protracted period of time. Of this complicated expensive indictment they had to take a copy, which had on the back of it the names of ninety witnesses. These parties had to prepare for their trial and defence, which they received notice on the 24th of October was to take place on the 10th of November following. Conscious, as they said, of their innocence, though poor in circumstances, ignorant of the law, and overwhelmed by these complicated proceedings, they determined at once to throw aside the means of protection by
 984 l, 985 s. 986
 Mr. Horsman  thought that, on the occasion referred to, expressions had been made use of calculated to produce soreness. If he recollected rightly, something like the term "hireling" had been made use of. With regard to the right of discussion which had been asserted, it was a right which no one denied; the only objection that could be was to the manner of the exercise of the right. During the absence of the hon. and gallant Officer great alacrity had been shown to bring forward questions affecting his conduct; but now that the gallant Officer was present the same alacrity did not exist, and he was forced to give notice of his intention to bring forward the subject himself.
 Mr. Lucas  said, that though he had taken no part in the debate in question, he must vindicate the right of every hon. Member in that House to express an independent opinion on every subject connected with British interests, and though at the time when this debate occurred the gallant Officer was absent, seeking renown in a foreign service, he would recal to his recollection that other officers, who were
 1007
 Sir E. Sugden  did not rise to offer any opposition, but merely to draw the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to this fact. If this resolution for the grant of 8,000 l. l.
 Mr. Finch  hoped the House would allow him to say a few words, this being his first essay before them. It appeared to him that some of the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down were of rather an extraordinary character for one who ventured to present himself to the House in the character of a friend of her Royal Highness. [Sir F. Trench: No.] Well, then, he would change the word "friend," and substitute for it that of "well wisher." He would ask the House whether it was consistent with the character of a well-wisher of her Royal Highness for any one to come before them and introduce the subject of debts supposed to have been contracted by her Royal Highness, without having heard a word to that effect either from the right hon. Gentleman in his statement or from any other quarter? When
 1044
 Mr. George F. Young  rose to mention a case which came within his own knowledge. A poor woman of decent and highly respectable character, under circumstances that excited universal commiseration and sympathy in the whole board of guardians, applied for some small allowance towards the support of her bastard child. Every one of the guardians felt that the poor woman was a proper object of relief; but, under the rules and regulations laid down by the commissioners, they felt that they were compelled to refuse any assistance except upon the condition of her entering the workhouse with her child. The poor woman, in his presence, indignantly refused to comply with the terms offered to her, and exclaimed that she would rather starve first. This feeling, he believed, was very general, and it therefore appeared to him to be high time that some distinct understanding should be come to as to whether the board of guardians were to be permitted to exercise the sound discretion which, he was glad to find, they had done at Sunderland, or whether they were to be compelled to administer the law in the harsh and cruel manner which, he was sorry to say, he, with others, were obliged
 1022
 Mr. Lambton  said, that on the occasion of the discussion respecting Spanish affairs he thought that the hon. and gallant Officer had been very severely dealt with.
 Mr. Lambton  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Lambton  declared he must say that he thought the hon. Member for North Durham had been highly culpable in making the assertions which he had made a few days ago before he had inquired into the case. Before the hon. Gentleman had stated that 200 children had been deprived of relief, he ought to have applied to every quarter from which he might have expected to obtain accurate information. A statement so calculated to excite the feelings of every man who heard it ought not to have been made but upon the best authority. But the hon. Member had made it on the authority of a letter, and when asked the name of the writer of that letter, the hon. Member had not dared to give it.
 Mr. Lambton : had the hon. Member for North Durham made the necessary inquiries? He ought, before he made such a statement as that in the House, to have written to the vice-chairman of the board of guardians of the Sunderland union on the subject. He would then have received the unanswerable statement that, notwithstanding the vestry minutes of 1834, no parochial relief had been refused in Sunderland in the cases alluded to. He would ask the House was it probable were the circumstances described by his hon. colleague true, that he should not have heard of it? He resided near Sunderland; he was in constant communication with all classes, high and low, rich and poor, in that town; and he had not heard a word about two hundred children having been left without parochial assistance. It was a remarkable fact with reference to the New Poor-law, that in the Sunderland district at the late general election, the candidates who declared themselves in favour of that law were in a decided majority. With regard to his statements respecting dark rumours the hon. Member had entirely backed out of them. Really some hon. Gentlemen appeared to be particularly sensitive. What had induced the hon. Gentleman to make this explanation seemed to be the resolutions which had been agreed to by the board of
 1017
 Mr. Goulburn  would claim for himself and for every other hon. Member the right of questioning the public policy, and, in his mind, the very doubtful public
 1008
 Mr. Goulburn , in rising to move that certain names be added to the Education Committee, regretted that he was obliged to trouble the House with any observations. The real object that he had in view was to secure from the appointment of the Committee a fair representation of the feelings and opinions which prevailed upon the subject on the different sides of the House. Thinking that there had been an attempt made by the Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House to overwhelm the opinions which were supposed to be entertained on the side of the House to which he was attached, he felt it to be his duty to bring this particular case under the consideration of the House; and he did so, not merely in reference to the importance of having the different parties in that House fairly represented in Committees, but in reference to the importance of the object of the Committee itself; for it must be obvious that if an impression were to get abroad that the Committee appointed to discuss so important a matter were not fairly and impartially constituted, whatever the determination of that Committee might ultimately be it would carry no weight with the country, and moreover would excite against the Committee a great deal of hostility. The Education Committee, as it at present stood, was composed of ten Members of the Ministerial side of the House and five only of that side of the House. The direct object that he had in view was to add those Gentlemen to the Committee who he was sure would be regarded as wholly unexceptionable in point of character and acquirement, and who, moreover, had a peculiar claim to be placed upon a Committee of this description. He had taken the trouble to refer to the several Committees appointed by the other side of the House: they were ten in number, and he found that the gross number of Members of which those ten Committees were composed were divided in the following proportions—one hundred and eleven Gentlemen representing the opinions of those who sat on the Ministerial side of the House, and only forty-eight the opinions of those who sat on the Opposition side. It would, he thought, be admitted on every hand that such a disproportion could not be regarded a a fair representation of the feelings and
 1023
 Mr. Goulburn  understood that the President of the Board of Trade and the hon. Member for Lambeth had agreed to withdraw their names, if the House would allow it; he therefore, saw no difficulty in the House agreeing to his motion.
 The Speaker  thought, it proper to state that the rule of the House was, that on any Gentleman proposing the names of fifteen persons to constitute a Committee, he must previously obtain the consent of those individuals to stand on that Committee.
 The Speaker : I will not enter at present into the policy of the rule: but what is material for me is, that the same rule should be applied to all. I cannot permit one hon. Member to enlarge upon the petition which he presents, and then refuse the same permission to another. I urge upon the House that, if it wishes to depart from this rule, it ought to make me perfectly secure as to what it wishes to have done.
 The Speaker  observed that the hon. Member ought not to use the word "dare."
 The Speaker : If I am thus appealed to, I must state again what I have often stated before—that, when I was first appointed to this Chair, I found that great inconvenience was felt by the House in consequence of the protracted debates which took place upon the presentation of petitions. Various plans were in consequence suggested to remedy that inconvenience, one of which would have taken the petitions entirely out of the consideration of the House. The only way of getting rid of it appeared to be by adopting a morning sitting. That was, however, a proceeding which, after three years' experience, was found to be extremely inconsistent with the daily avocations of hon. Members, and I am bound,
 981
 The Lord Advocate  said, that he could have no difficulty whatever in answering any part of the statement of the hon. Gentleman; a somewhat similar statement had been made some time before by another hon. Member, and the answer then given would almost equally apply now. There was not one part of the statement of the hon. Member that did not admit of a sufficient answer. The charge against those individuals was one of the most serious nature, a charge of assassination, the result of a conspiracy carried on by an association which had subsisted during a number of years, and which had during that time produced similar offences—an association bound together by secret oaths, and supported by a system of intimidation; so powerful and well-compacted as to render the procuring of evidence to commit almost impossible. It being a charge, then, of so serious a nature, it became the duty of the public prosecutor to carry forward the prosecution by all the means in his power, taking care that no unnecessary expenses were incurred, and no unnecessary hardships inflicted on the prisoners, but that every possible advantage consistent with the due maintenance of public justice, should be afforded them. There had been great delays undoubtedly, but the law required them. If they could have been tried at half an hour's notice, it would have been then called a great hardship that so short a time was allowed. For his own part he was very much disposed to shorten the time. He would say hat two or three days were quite long enough, and it would be a great convenience to the public prosecutor to have the time shortened; but a great outcry would certainly be raised at such a proposition; for it would be said that the public prosecutor was pouncing on the prisoners at a short notice merely to suit his own convenience, while by the law of the country they were entitled to fifteen days' notice. In the present instance
 987
 Mr. Hume  thought, that both of the parties who had spoken were at variance about the fact. It had been stated that nothing to the prejudice of his hon. and gallant Friend had been said in the course of the debates referred to; but did the right hon. Baronet not recollect that on the very day information of a slight defeat experienced by his hon. and gallant Friend was received, an opportunity was sought to bring the whole subject forward, and that aspersions and charges were then made not only against him but the whole corps which he commanded. With a full recollection of all that took place when the matter was brought forward, he could only say that he was glad his hon. and gallant Friend would have an early opportunity of going in detail into the whole subject, as the conduct pursued towards him was anything but fair.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Liddell) had rather varied his statement as compared with that which he made the other evening. He begged to remind the hon. Gentleman of his former statement. It appeared that the Gentlemen who in that House, as well as elsewhere, took upon themselves to denounce the Poor-law Bill, and to attribute circumstances to its operation which would reflect disgrace not only upon the framers of that Bill, but upon society generally, were unwilling, now that the opportunity was afforded to them of testing a fact, to enter into any inquiry or to hear any explanation upon the subject. He should not then have risen if he had not received a letter from the chairman of the board to which allusion had been made, assuring him that no such facts had taken place as those alleged by the hon. Member (Mr. Liddell). As to the misrepresentation of which the hon. Member complained, he (Mr. Hume) would briefly state what occurred. On the morning after the discussion took place, the hon. Gentleman called upon him (Mr. Hume) with a newspaper in his hand, and asked him whether he (Mr. Hume) thought that that which was reported of them both was correct. He (Mr. Hume), having looked at the report, stated that which he should then repeat, that as far as he could recollect the report appeared to him to be correct. The words were these:—"In Sunderland alone, immediately after the Act coming into operation, parochial relief was suddenly withdrawn from no less than 200 unhappy children, and dark rumours went abroad of the mysterious disappearance of many of these innocents." These were the words reported; and, as far as he could recollect, they were the words used. At all events they were words so strong as to give rise to an immediate expression of feeling from all parts of the House. He immediately rose and called upon the hon. Gentleman before he left the House to give the Government such information on the subject as might enable them to take the necessary steps to ascertain the accuracy of the rumours in question, and to prevent such occurrences for the future, if true. But when he (Mr. Hume) sat down the hon. Gentleman repeated his statement, and observed that
 1020 1021
 Mr. Hume  assured the House that no
 1041 l. l. l. 1042 l.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the Speaker had stated the rule very correctly; but it appeared to him that the inconvenience arising from the observance of the modern rule was greater than that arising from the previous practice. The rule had been productive of serious detriment to the people of England, as it amounted, in point of fact, to something very like a
 982 "No."
 Mr. Hume  did not admit any such rule as that which the right hon. Gentleman had adverted to. It was a rule which, if admitted, would deprive the people of England of the benefit of the right of petition. He was not going beyond the usual limits, and even if he were, he would stand upon his right—
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from certain electors of Middlesex residing in the village of Hammersmith, complaining of the intimidation practised upon the electors at the late election by certain magistrates of that district, who took their stand in the most conspicuous parts of the polling-booths there, for the purpose of observing how the different tradesmen of that place voted, and praying for the adoption of the vote by ballot as the only means of putting an end to such coercion and intimidation in future. He could from his own personal knowledge confirm the truth of many of the statements contained in this petition, and he knew that great inconvenience and considerable loss had been sustained by many parties in consequence of the oppressive conduct which the petitioners denounced. He alluded more particularly to the case of the keepers of public-houses, who were dependent almost on the pleasure of the magistracy for the renewal of their licences. He could prove, if it were necessary, at their bar, that in Middlesex magistrates had gone a canvassing in public-houses in such a manner as made the keepers of them feel that the renewal of their licences depended on their not resisting the will and pleasure of those who had the power of withholding them. That was an evil, however, which was not confined to Middlesex; it unfortunately extended all over the country, and the
 980
 Mr. Hume  rose to present a petition from the Roman Catholics of Newfoundland, signed by 3,217 persons. Several of the parties who had subscribed it were Members of the House of Commons in that colony, and they stated in their petition a long series of oppressions, which had been inflicted upon its Roman Catholic population. They complained that they had been deprived of all share in the civil employments of the island, and that they had been treated with every
 979
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that, as he considered the papers for which he was about to move, were subjects of too great importance to be fully gone into in the absence of the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department, he should abstain from touching upon many parts of them to which, had the noble Lord been present, he should have thought it necessary to call his attention. As, however, he had the authority of the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) that the papers should be granted, he trusted he might be allowed to state a few of the grounds on which his motion was founded. In the year 1833 the quarrel of the succession in Spain assumed that formidable aspect which still continued to press upon the industry, to excite the passions, and to cloud the hopes of that unfortunate country. Donna Christina, who was then, as now, the  de facto 993 994 "His Royal Highness the Infante Don Carlos shall leave Evora with his suite on the 30th of the current May, for Aldea Gallego, where he shall embark. "In his journey thither the Marshals of Portugal will answer for the personal safety of his Royal Highness and suite, and provide for him such escort as his Royal Highness may point out. "The Spanish subjects who may he in Portugal, compromised in the service of his Royal Highness, shall be received in a provisional dépôt at Santarem, whither they shall go under such escort as may be necessary for their security. "The Portuguese Government shall give them the means of subsistence in the dépôt until they may be able to go there from without danger to some other place of residence." 995 996 997 "Tower of St. Julian's, Lisbon, Oct. 20,1837. "SIR,—I received your esteemed favour of the 1st inst., and in reply thereto I beg to inform you that we have made repeated applications to the Government to cause the Convention of Evora Monte to be fulfilled, the violation of which is enormous and glaring, but of none of these applications has any notice been taken until lately, when some of the deputies, and more particularly Don Juan Victorino, sensible that justice was on our side, have spoken strongly in our favour; and yet all this has ended in nothing, nor is there a hope that anything will be done for us. "By this post we send various applications to London, and we do not write to our friends, not to put them to the expense of postage, as we consider them short of funds; but, however wretched they may be, they cannot be in so miserable a condition as the unfortunate beings of this déspôt, who out of the scanty pittance of one hundred patacos (18 s. d. "By the enclosed you will see what has been agitated in the Cortes here; but, after all, this is mere speechifying, and amounts to nothing; for so long as the infamous Perez de Castro, the Christino Ambassador, remains here, this weak Government will come to no determination; therefore, if, through your zeal and exertions, you do not succeed in liberating us poor captives, I firmly believe that our bones will be left to moulder in this prison." 998 "Our misfortunes, in fact (the letter continued) daily become more intolerable. We are kept confined under ground, and at seven in the morning our windows are opened. We are then mustered, and the adjutant calls over our names. After this we are again shut up, and at twelve they open our place of confinement, in order that our miserable food may be brought in, and at one as many as twenty-five are allowed to ascend the ravelin above our prisons till four in the afternoon. We are then again mustered and the names called over, when we are shut up till the next day, unless the adjutant out of commiseration, allows our windows to be left open till sunset; but this seldom happens, so that while the sun is yet up we are excluded from daylight. In short, believe me, if any of us survive this wretchedness, they will remain blind and their health totally destroyed, &c. (Signed) "Marquis DE LA ZERREZUELA," Viscount DE LA MOTILLA. "To D. Ramon Salvador." "Tower of St. Julian's, Lisbon, Oct. 26, 1837. "Sir,—I confirm the contents of mine of the 20th, inclosing the report of the diplomatic committee of the Portuguese Cortes, recommending our being delivered up to Spain at a fixed period, on condition of our being amnestied by the Spanish Government, or, at the expiration of that period, that passports should be delivered to us for foreign countries. You may easily imagine how much we have been alarmed at the first part of this proposal, fearing, as we do, that it is founded upon some intrigue of Perez de Castro, the Christino envoy here. Three years and a half have expired of our painful slavery in this kingdom, and scarcely has a day passed without us having solicited this Government to grant us passports, in compliance with the convention of Evora Monte. We have published three manifestoes—we have represented our case to the British Government, and several Lords in particular, but nothing have we obtained. "Sometimes we have seen this Government
 999 "To D. Ramon Salvador." "Lisbon, Oct. 26, 1837. "Having learnt at the Spanish depot that you have been commissioned to obtain the liberation of the poor sufferers so long dragging a miserable existence there, indeed, ever since the signing of the Evora Monte Convention, I do not hesitate to address you. My unfortunate husband is one of the sufferers, and, owing to the wretchedness which he has endured, he is now ill of a brain fever; and, although somewhat better, I have no hopes of his recovery so long as he remains in his present miserable condition. Under securities I have been able to get him out of the depot, and we are now in the house of a Portuguese lady, without whose benevolent aid we should have perished through want. Such is our miserable condition, after having lost everything. "As I have remained in Lisbon, I have not ceased calling upon Ministers, Deputies, and Ambassadors, using every possible exertion to have their sufferings alleviated, by endeavouring to have the Convention observed, and passports delivered to them; but, unfortunately, all my efforts have been vain, and, at the solicitation of the Spanish Ambassador, Don Evaristo Perez de Castro, instead of alleviation, their condition is rendered worse, as they themselves inform you, &c. (Signed) "MARIA DEL ROSARIO VALERA. "To Don Ramon Salvador, London." 1000 "Fortress of St. Julian, Lisbon, Nov. 5." I have seen your letter, addressed to the Marquis de Zerezuela. &c. However much I might wish to say, my pen would be too feeble to describe the sufferings which this dépôt has experienced. Charged with its interior Government ever since the month of May 1835, in consequence of the Commandant, with
 1001 "In the meanwhile that this plan is realizing, and in consequence of the flight above-mentioned, the officers, and even the women, are kept in continual confinement—myself ever since the said day of the 19th September, separate in solitary [ incomunicado, "I suppose that you are aware that the privates belonging to the dépÔt are still kept in an old hulk,, confounded with criminals, and abandoned, it may be said, to their fate: but ever constant, and with serene mind, anxiously looking forward to the day of their sighed-for liberation, which I hope is not far distant; and till it arrives, I remain, &c." "Lisbon,. Nov. 19. "I cannot, while in the depot, lay protests before this Government. All I can do is to interest myself more and more with Deputies of the Cortes, in order that they may ward off the fatal day. Within the last few days one has been presented to the British Ambassador, and another is forwarded to him this day. Of these protests, our remonstrances, petitions, &c., a volume might be formed. The rough copies exist in my possession, and, together with the printed papers, they will ever afford authentic testimony that here nothing has been neglected for a single moment. "It would, indeed, my friend, almost appear as if curses from all sides followed the dépôt. Within and without we are persecuted, for within elements are not wanting to embitter our days. Some persons will, sometime or other, experience the punishment deserved in the remorse of their own consciences, and this seems to be the only guarantee we now have. In the midst of all, our misfortunes continue, our oppression is prolonged, and our freedom delayed, for in the meanwhile that his Majesty Don Carlos is consulted, and his royal determination arrives, or before things are put in their proper train, months will elapse, and the Government of Christina will avail itself of this, and by main force, while that of Portugal, forgetting its dignity and obligations
 1002
 Mr. Borthwick  was anxious to have abstained from anything connected with the hon. and gallant Officer, without giving him an opportunity of replying. With respect to what the hon. and gallant Officer had stated, he having had occasion to take part in the debate on Spain, as far as he recollected, no person called in question the bravery of the hon. and gallant Officer. He had merely called in question the policy that continued the hon. and gallant Officer in Spain, and when the proper occasion came he should be prepared to do so again. He trusted to be present
 1011
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that Don Carlos was fully sensible, so were the prisoners, of the conduct of the British Government at that time. He held in his hand the correspondence connected with the treaty of Evora Monte, and he must say, that much credit was due to the British Government for the course they pursued on that occasion, and he only hoped they would now act in the same spirit, and not allow themselves to be influenced by the machinations of others elsewhere. The obligation of the British Government was the more binding on them because this treaty originated in their own diplomacy. The Duke de Terceira and the Conde de Saldanha, in the official statements which they made to their Government, said: —
 "Lemos declared that he was not empowered to act for Don Carlos, when Mr. Grant, the Secretary of the British Legation, took upon himself to represent that Prince and his interests, and with him they stipulated for the articles contained in the treaty. These articles were as follow:— "Don Miguel having capitulated, Mr. Grant, Secretary of her Britannic Majesty's Legation at Lisbon, addressed the Infante Don Carlos, under date of the 26th of May, 1834, in these words;—'General Lemos not having treated respecting the interests and security of your Royal Highness and the Princesses of your family, I took the liberty of submitting to the Marshals, commanding the Portuguese armies, this subject, in which I feel a lively interest; and I now enclose to your Royal Highness the articles stipulated with them, a copy of which I this day send to my Ambassador. I hope they will meet your Royal Highness's approbation, whose assent thereto, I flatter myself, I shall to-morrow receive, signed, in order that I may, conjointly with the said Marshals, occupy myself in their execution."
 Mr. Ingham , although he could not assent to what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just spoken, felt obliged to the hon. Member for Sunderland for giving the hon. Member for North Durham the opportunity of making an explanation. He begged to state that there was a union at South Shields, the population of which place was nearly equal to that of Sunderland, and that making all due allowance for the imperfections which must naturally accompany the commencement of a new system, that system had given great satisfaction, not only to the ratepayers, but to those who were the subjects of relief under it. It was with the board of guardians at South Shields a secondary consideration whether the rates were increased or diminished: their first consideration was to provide comforts for the destitute, and to maintain the independence of the labourer. It now appeared that the unfortunate declaration respecting the Sunderland union related to a circumstance which took place before the present system came into operation, and it afforded a fair specimen of what could be done under the old law.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that no person ever raised a question so entirely preposterous as to deny the right of any hon. Member to state his opinion freely upon any subject before the House. So far from that, it was not only their right but their duty fully and freely to discuss any matter in which the public interests were involved. No question had been at all raised on that point. All admitted the right—the question was as to the proper exercise of that right. No one doubted that it was perfectly open to any hon. Member to dispute the policy of the order in Council as to the continuance of the British Legion in the service of the Queen of Spain. He was also ready to admit the right to speak of the conduct of the Legion, and of any officer either in his
 1009
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that all that was wanted in this preliminary resolution was to have the sum voted.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose and said, that it was with deep anxiety that he made his present motion, He hoped, however, that hon. Members of that House were disposed to give a favourable consideration to the gracious recommendation which had been made by the Crown. It would be in the recollection of the House that during the last Session, soon after the demise of the Crown, a question had been asked of the Government by an hon. Friend of his, who was no longer a Member of that House, but who was, at that time, the Representative of Bristol, whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any additional provision for her royal highness the Duchess of Kent? It was in reply stated that Ministers had no intention to make any proposal at that moment. But it was now considered the proper and fitting time for its introduction, and the present period was advisedly chosen; because, as the question of the civil list was still under discussion, it might be considered, that though the present proposal was not necessarily connected with the civil list, and though the dignity of the Crown was less immediately connected with it, yet that it ought to be adverted to in Parliament before the Civil list Act was passed. He hoped that the proposal which he was about to make, would meet with the approbation, not only of the Commons' House of Parliament, but also of the great bulk of the people. He did hope, that the kind feeling which was expressed in her Majesty's most gracious Message, and the consideration which her
 1033 l. 1034 "He was persuaded that the marriage itself must be felt by the Committee to be, in every point of view, highly satisfactory, and that if any consideration were wanting to recommend it, that consideration would be found in the fact that the connexion was not new to the country: but that the illustrious female, with whom his royal highness was about to ally himself, belonged to a family of whose virtuous and amiable qualities the country had already experienced the most convincing proof. He must say, in justice to this illustrious lady— and it was a feature of her conduct highly creditable to her, and which, he was sure, would recommend her to the respect of the Committee—that although, when the treaty of marriage was in progress, she felt it her duty not to relinquish the personal guardianship of her children by her former marriage, she did not extend that disposition to the pecuniary advantages of her widowhood, but that her marriage would deprive her of an income of 3,000 l. l l. l. * l. l.; * 1035 l. l. 1036 l. "In the case of the Duchess of Kent, the parties agreed in the propriety of the grant, and if Government had anything to answer for, it was for not having proposed it sooner. There could not be a greater compliment to her royal highness than to state the great unobtrusiveness of her life, and that she had never made herself the object of the public gaze, but had devoted herself to the education of that child whom the country were now called on to adopt." l. l. l. l., 1037 l. l. l. l. l. 1038 l. l. 1039 l. 1040 l. l. l.
 Mr. Wakley  was decidedly of opinion that this Education Committee was very badly constructed, and the discussion which had arisen upon the present motion clearly showed that the system upon which Select Committees were appointed required to be changed. When the object of the Committee was a fair one he did not see what possible objection there could be to a short delay of one day to scrutinize the names of the Members of whom it was proposed that the Committee should be composed. He knew it would be said that this would give rise to discussion; but if the proposed appointment were a fair and equal one what dread need any one have of the result of a discussion? In the present instance it certainly appeared to him that the selection of Members was not a fair one, and it too frequently happened that those who succeeded in obtaining a Committee upon a pet subject appointed only those Members to set upon it whom they knew to be tolerably favourable to
 1025
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  wished to say a few words, being one of the Representatives for Sunderland. He was not in the House when the hon. Member for North Durham made the statement which had occasioned so much discussion. If he had been, knowing the state of things in the borough of Sunderland, he should have immediately believed that the hon. Member had been imposed upon. For although the Poor-law Bill had not been particularly well received in Sunderland, and although its principles were not particularly well liked in that place, it had been carried into practice with a kindness and forbear-
 1018
 Mr. Wilberforce  would not have risen but for the general eulogium which some hon. Members had passed upon the new Poor-law. As he represented a constituency in a part of the kingdom in which it was not so great a favourite, he felt it his duty to say so, nor did he think that he should act fairly by the House if he were not to do so. Those who had spoken in favour of the Bill as operating in some places, must allow him to enter his protest against its operation elsewhere. It had been said, that he had ridden into Parliament on the popularity which he had acquired by opposing the Poor-law Bill. He should be ashamed of himself if he had been influenced in his opposition to the Bill by any such motive. But he must fairly say that he did object to the principle of the Bill, if he understood it; and he was persuaded that the measure would be tolerated only in places in which the leniency of its execution would defeat its own principle. In the borough which he represented a large majority of the guardians of the poor had accepted the office for the express purpose of counteracting the provisions of the Act.
 Sir C. B. Vere  was present at the debate in question, and he could assure the hon. and gallant Officer opposite that his situation and personal gallantry were fully considered, and he did not think, on that occasion, that there had been any tendency to throw anything discreditable upon the character of the hon. and gallant Officer.
 Sir Frederick Trench  said, he had not the honour of the intimacy, and scarcely of the acquaintance, of her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, and he had merely given his opinion as a Member of Parliament. He thought that the debt of gratitude to that illustrious lady could not be repaid, but still they were bound to do everything in their power to show their gratitude; and he rather regretted, if a further sum were necessary, that Ministers had not had the courage to come to the House to ask for twenty—ay, fifty, or a hundred—thousand pounds more.
 Sir Frederick Trench  thought, that the debt to her Royal Highness was one that was not to be discharged by money; but he felt that they were bound to provide her Royal Highness with the income that was necessary to enable her to continue that generosity and benevolence which had marked her past career. The income now proposed was, in his opinion, not more than adequate to those high purposes. It seemed to him that out of this subject an important question arose that he desired to put to the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Did he know that her Royal Highness, in the education of the illustrious Princess—in her administration of her small income for state purposes—had not incurred some debts? If she had, he would say, that they ought to be paid. They were all aware that she had lived in profound retirement till the age of the Princess made it necessary to introduce her to the British public. He knew nothing of her but what he had observed of her public conduct, but he felt that not one pound had been spent on that illustrious Princess—that not one pound of obligation had been incurred on her account—but must be approved. If, then, her Royal Highness had incurred any debts, he was willing to vote a grant to set her free in the course she was now to run. That, he thought, was the only way in which the House could evince its gratitude.
 Sir Robert Inglis  was happy to find that the hon. Gentleman did not oppose the motion. The hon. Gentleman had stated his doubts of its propriety, but a little more moral courage would have enabled him to answer them. He had net suggested any specific objections, but had merely expressed his fear that the grant might alienate the affections of the people from her Royal Highness. In reply to the hon. Gentleman, he would ask, was it not for the House to take its own line, irrespective of any possible objection that might arise out of misconception? As the hon. Gentleman had only expressed his doubts as to the propriety of the vote, he trusted that it would pass unanimously. He believed that it would be seconded by the country. The people would feel from what they had witnessed of the past expenditure of her royal Highness, that in making an addition to her income they would only be affording her the means of contributing still further to the encouragement of every good object. He believed that the income of no one individual in the country had contributed so largely as had that of her Royal Highness to charitable and benevolent purposes.
 Sir H. Inglis  said, that with respect to the observation of the President of the Board of Trade that the Committee was to consist of the magical number of fifteen, he begged to say that Committees originally consisted of twenty-one; it was quite clear, therefore, that the House had the option of altering its own rules. At present there was a certain prestige attached to the reports of the Committees of the House, because it was supposed that they expressed the opinion of the whole of the Committees, whereas possibly they only expressed the opinion of a bare majority, which in the present instance would consist only of eight.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the discussion which had just taken place strongly confirmed the impression under which he spoke the other evening with respect to the policy of requiring that those who appointed Committees should give some short notice of the names they proposed to place upon them. Under the existing system they had fallen into a sort of habit of considering the appointment of Select Committees as a sort of patronage to be exercised by the gentleman by whom a Committee had been obtained. It was said that if notice of the names were given it might serve to provoke discussion, which would be inconvenient and objectionable. He thought quite the reverse. What was it that gave rise to the present discussion? The disproportion that existed in the Committee as to the representation of the feelings and opinions of the two sides of the House. This would be avoided if proper notice were given, so that the House might become aware of the manner in which it was proposed to construct Committees. If the Committee proposed were not a fair one, there could be no harm in the discussion; if it were perfectly fair, in all possibility there would be no discussion. With respect to this particular motion, it was said that the subject to which it referred was not a party question. He totally dissented from the truth of that assertion. It certainly was not a question upon which any party struggle was likely to take place; but the House would be miserably mistaken indeed if it supposed that the country did not take a deep interest in many questions that were not considered nor treated within the walls of Parliament as party questions. Party questions often turned upon mere straws. They were of importance to them in that House; but they were regarded as of but little or no
 1026
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, it would have been more satisfactory to the House, and more respectful also, if, when her Majesty's Government stated the arrangements they proposed with regard to the civil list, they had conveyed to the House some intimation of the increased provision which they now recommended for her Royal Highness. This fact could not be concealed, that many hon. Members, who had left London under an impression that no such proposition was likely to be made, had they been aware of it, would have been anxious to be present, for the purpose, he believed, of expressing their general concurrence in the arrangement. He should give his assent to the proposition which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman. On all occasions when 'the Duchess of Kent's conduct had been brought under the consideration of Parliament, he had expressed in the strongest terms his sense of the gratitude due to her Royal Highness for her superintendence of the education of the illustrious Princess, who was the natural object of her care. She had devoted herself in the most exemplary manner in which a mother could to that important national charge. When retirement was best suited to the age of the Princess, she consented most cheerfully to the most rigid seclusion. When the Princess had arrived to a more advanced age, and it became of importance to introduce her to the society of the leading men of all parties, and likewise to acquaint her in some degree with the manners of the world, there were no bounds to her liberal, but necessarily moderate, hospitalities. He could conceive that in indulging in that hospitality she might have exceeded the limits which Parliament had prescribed for her expenses. He, however, made no inquiry on that subject. The provision appeared to him to be a liberal one, and he could not concur with his hon. Friend behind him (Sir F. Trench) in seeking to get the House to increase the allowance which had been proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. He must say, that he could not reconcile it to his feelings to express an opinion in concurrence with that of his hon. Friend. He took it for granted that her Majesty's Government, before they came to this House with this proposition, had
 1045
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the noble Lord seemed to have misunderstood him. He did not object to the time at which this grant was brought forward, but he did object that it should be brought forward without the slightest intimation that it was intended to propose such a grant. When the proposition was made with respect to the civil list, seeing how intimately connected this provision was with the settlement of the civil list, he thought that the increased allowance to her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent might have formed—though not a part—a consideration connected with it. This message had been brought down on Monday, and they were called upon to pass the vote on Tuesday. He thought it would have been doing justice to the vote, and not in the slightest degree prejudicing it, if rather more time had been given to its consideration.
 Sir S. Canning  said, that, although he was most anxious to enter into the whole subject connected with the war in Spain, he could not understand what connexion that matter had with the subject now before the House. What the hon. Gentleman on his side of the House had done was to appeal to her Majesty's Government whether they were not bound by a particular treaty to use diplomatic interference with the Portuguese Government on behalf of those prisoners? He had not come down prepared to enter into a general discussion, but he was happy to know that the hon. and gallant Officer opposite intended to bring the subject conected with his own proceedings before the House at an early period after the recess. He could assure that hon. and gallant Officer that there was no wish on the part of his (the Conservative) side of the House to shrink from such a discussion—but he must be allowed to say that the hon. and gallant Officer had no just cause of complaint in consequence of any reference which had been made to him on any one occasion when the affairs of Spain were mentioned during his absence. The hon. and gallant Officer no doubt had duties to perform elsewhere; but if he had been in his place in that House he might have taken part in the discussions which occurred in vindication of himself. He, however, thought it hardly fair of the hon. and gallant Officer to complain that the matter had been unnecessarily pressed upon the attention of that House. The term for which the men serving in the Legion which the hon. and gallant Officer commanded had nearly expired, and, under such circumstances, was it at all wonderful that his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir H. Hardinge) had, felt it his duty to bring the whole subject forward as he had done? In the whole of that discussion no imputation had been cast upon the hon. and gallant Officer opposite, nor had any statement been made which rendered it
 1006
 Sir Stratford Canning  submitted, that although the House always listened with pleasure to every word which came from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who so frequently addressed it, he must suggest that the hon. Member was then going beyond the limits usually assigned to the remarks of hon. Members on the presentation of petitions.
 Sir S. Canning  appealed to the Chair, and called upon the Speaker to decide whether he had been light or wrong in the observations which he had made respecting the rule of the House.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that if an officer went into the service of a foreign Power, and that any discussion arose as to the propriety of his continuing to serve in that foreign service, or as to the continuance of the troops under his command, he considered that the Members of that House would have the fullest liberty to make any observations that their sense of public duty prompted. He considered that the right of a Member to discuss the public conduct of any individual in a public point of view in relation to any questions before the House could not be denied.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  rose under feelings of extreme regret to state to the House the reasons why he could not approve of the present grant. No one could be more willing to pay respect to the merits of her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, and no one entertained a more lively sense of the gratitude which the country owed to
 1047 l. l.
 Viscount Palmerston  regretted he had been detained by business elsewhere. He would have been in the House earlier; but the notice of the hon. Member for Evesham was the 13th on the paper, and he did not anticipate it would have come on so soon. He regretted that his absence should have in any way shortened the speech of the hon. Member.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that there were no grounds for the charges which the hon. Member had made. The same urgency did not exist now as had existed last year, and the hon. Member could therefore draw no analogy from the circumstances of last year. If notice had not then been given and the motion brought forward, the opportunity would have been lost, as the order in Council was just upon the point of expiring. But he must deny that they were
 1010
 Mr. Pryme  thought, that the objection of the right hon. Gentleman might be answered in Committee. Every man must know the difficulty felt by landlords in ejecting bad tenants. The expense and loss not unfrequently amounted to as much as the value of the fee simple of the property, and not seldom the tenant would demand a sum of money to induce him to quit. If it was thought the magistrate ought to have a power of adjudication, a clause might be framed and introduced in it in Committee. It should also be remembered that if the magistrate decided wrongly, the tenant had no remedy from another tribunal.
 Mr. Ag-
 1048  rose to move the second reading of the Recovery of Tenements Bill. He would not go through the whole matter, and would content himself with shortly stating that the reasons which induced him to introduce the measure was the fact, that in two former Sessions this Bill was read a second time without opposition, so far as affecting the principle of the Bill in the least. During the Committee on the details of the Bill some opposition was raised on the part of one or two hon. Members, an opposition which was no doubt most conscientious, but raised at an inconvenient period; and then not against the details, but against the principle of the measure; and in one night there were no less than four divisions for postponement and adjournment. On one occasion there were only two Members in the minority, and on another only one. He still hoped that if there were any objections to the principle of the Bill they would be made at once; and if there were any to the details they might be brought forward in the Committee. He had not obtruded himself upon the House in bringing forward this measure. He had appealed to the law officers of the Crown, and from what he had heard from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that the revision of the law between landlord and tenant would fairly come within the consideration of her Majesty's Government, he had repeatedly attempted to draw the attention of the Attorney-General to the subject without effect. He had, however, had his attention called to the question from every part of the country. If the evil were great, as no hon. Member denied, they were bound to apply a remedy. This measure might, perhaps, in some respects prove to be partial in its operation, and he had never shut his eyes to the difficulty which existed. Understanding from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on a former occasion, that some measure for the establishment of local courts was forthcoming, he had withdrawn his Bill. The same course was adopted last Parliament of delaying the progress of the Bill. He had attended fourteen Wednesday nights when the House was counted out. No delay, however, had occurred on his own part. The Bill was read a second time without opposition; but on going into Committee the Bill was opposed by two hon. Members, and the hon. Member for Finsbury having stated he had serious
 1049 l. l. l. l. 1050
 Mr. Jervis  said, it had been his duty more than once to oppose this Bill; he had been a party to the opposition to it when he, with the hon. Member for Finsbury, divided against it, and successfully. He was satisfied that this was a landlords' Bill, that it was an oppressive measure which established invidious distinctions between the rich and the poor. The hon. Member had said sufficient to satisfy him that some measure was necessary in order to enable landlords to recover possession in certain cases; but he would ask, was not a measure oppressive which provided that as regarded the poor, a magistrate was a sufficient tribunal, whereas as regarded the rich the sanction of the law
 1051 nisi prius 1052
 Mr. Thornley  said, that with reference to the objects of the bill which it was now proposed to read a second time, he was convinced, from experience, that the freemen were the worst part of the constituencies of the country. An hon. Member had said upon a former occasion that the restrictions to be removed by this bill had pressed very heavily on a certain class of electors, and ought to be removed. The bill, however, said that other restrictions upon the household voters should also be removed. Now the restrictions on the freemen were the only guarantees for their being  bonâfide
 Mr. Hodgson Hinde  said, that as the freemen had been deprived of the principal part of their former privileges, they ought not to be required to pay a tax for the remainder. It was complained that the rate-paying clauses of the Reform Bill were a hardship upon the new constituency created by that bill, but the tax upon the admission of freemen was far more unjust. He would not oppose the bill now, but would do so at a future stage.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would never hear the freemen of England abused without rising to say a word in their defence. He did not know what the freemen of Wolverhampton were. If they were the mad set of people the hon. Member for Wolverhampton considered them to be he begged to say, that the freemen of the city which he (Colonel Sibthorp) had the honour to represent, were a very different description of persons, and he should not like them to come in contact with the freemen of Lincoln, because a scabby sheep would endanger a whole flock. He would not oppose the
 1058
 Sir A. Dalrymple  approved of the Bill so far as it went to relieve  bona fide
 Mr. Williams  would not be a party to what the hon. Baronet had so justly designated the unwarrantable insinuations which had been thrown out against the freemen. He had the honour to number a good many of them amongst his constituents, and not one of those persons had ever received a single farthing for his vote. He did not see why a body of electors should be attacked in this way. All those insinuations would better apply to the borough of Liverpool, for which the hon. Member for Wolverhampton was once, he believed, a candidate—and where it was notorious that bribery and corruption had
 1059
 Lord Sandon  did not deny that great malpractices had formerly existed in the borough of Liverpool, but he was firmly persuaded that the freemen of that place no longer deserved the imputation which had been cast upon them. Those freemen were generally poor men, and it was because they were poor that he was the more strongly induced to stand up in their favour. He would take this opportunity of noticing a remark of the hon. Member for Finsbury on a former occasion. The hon. Member had charged him with deluding and wheedling the operatives of Liverpool, by pretending a great desire to maintain their electoral privileges. He thought, that that hon. Gentleman had no right whatever to make any such accusation against him. It was quite natural, that the freemen should not be particularly favourable to the opposite side of the House, as hon. Members on the opposite side had taken every possible opportunity to deprive them, by every means, directly or indirectly, of their franchise. With respect to this Bill, he should prefer to see the two questions it contained placed separately upon their own merits.
 Lord John Russell  saw nothing unfair or unkind in that mode of proceeding, which, while it relieved the freemen with regard to the stamp duty, afforded a corresponding benefit to the other electors, through the provisions of the present Bill. Well, but it was said that this measure would not be passed, if it were to confine the advantages proposed to be conferred on householders to that class; that one measure could not pass without another to the same purpose; and that any relaxation of the rules hitherto required to qualify a voter, if made with regard to the householder, should also be followed by similar immunities in favour of the free-
 1060 veto
 Mr. Aglionby,  although he had no objection to a Select Committee on the bill, yet thought that this was not the stage at which this course should be adopted. If the House sanctioned the second reading of the measure, then he would consent to the appointment of a Select Committee, although he thought he could show the House that nothing would be gained by it.
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to know what sums of money had been received by the public out of the pension of 50,000 l.
 Sir Edward Sugden  said, that the House, when legislating generally on the subject of landlord and tenant, should be careful to satisfy that vast body of persons who filled the relation of tenant that they were not anxious merely to secure their own rights as landlords, but were merely anxious to make security for the rights of tenants. Now, he thought, the Bill was in direct violation of all principles of legislation as regards mutual remedies. He did not deny that there ought to be such a modification of the law as would, by lessening the expense, give a more speedy remedy. It was a mistake to suppose, that by making the remedy more speedy, if it was a just remedy, the landlord only was benefitted. It tended to prevent litigation between landlord and tenant, and therefore conferred equal benefit on the one as on the other. But his objection to this Bill was, that it did not admit of any modification. No alteration in Committee could make it such a Bill as the supporter of the Bill himself stated that it ought to be. It went upon this ground, to take away all security whatever from the tenant, and to place him entirely in the power of the landlord. It ought to be a matter of grave consideration whether the power of deciding upon questions between landlord and tenant should not, up to a certain amount, be given to the magistrates, though certainly this would be placing them in a very delicate position, and they would probably be the first to object to it. The hon. Mover had stated that the magistrate was to see that the relation of landlord and tenant had once existed between the parties, and that it no longer existed, but the Bill provided no such thing; it only provided that the justice was to see that a certain notice had been delivered and a certain declaration
 1054 1055
 Mr. Grote  took that opportunity of saying a very few words with which if he had been in his place last night he should have troubled the House. If he had been present he should certainly have felt it his duty to express his concurrence in the views of the hon. Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Hume), although he believed what his hon. Friend had stated did not meet with the general approbation of the House. It did, however, appear to him
 1066 l. l. 1067
 Mr. Goulburn  did not rise to object to the additional grant, on the contrary, he concurred in its propriety. As, however, her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent was no longer called upon to provide for the support and education of her illustrious daughter, Queen Victoria, he wished to know whether the sum which had been allowed her for those purposes had been paid to her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent since the accession of her Majesty to the Throne. [The  Chancellor of the Exchequer:
 Mr. Herries  wished to call the attention of the House and of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the position in which her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent would be placed if a Bill were introduced founded solely on this resolution. The effect of this resolution, if he understood the statement of his right hon. Friend, was, that a sum of 8,000 l. 1063 l. l. l. l. l. cessante ratione cessat lex 1064 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Brotherton  supported the second reading of the bill. At the same time he thought the suggestion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, for the consolidation of the rating of Small Tenements' Bill and
 1057
 Mr. Hume  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as he had last night stated that the 6,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  would bring in a Bill early in February.
 Mr. Hume : Was it the intention of her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill to repeal the Act which gave the pension, as it certainly was never granted with the intention that it should be received under such circumstances as at present?
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, he would take the present opportunity of putting the question to the noble Lord (Morpeth) which he had been prevented from putting at an earlier part of the evening by the intervention of the Speaker. He wished to know, if any, and what steps were to be taken by her Majesty's Government with respect to a very important circumstance connected with the national system of education in Ireland, namely, the exclusion of the reading of the sacred Scriptures from the schools, by which great dissatisfaction was given to conscientious Protestants?
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that in much of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down he concurred, but he, at the same time, thought the hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the grounds on which the grant proceeded. The fact was, that it proceeded not on the ground of either respect or esteem, but upon two other totally distinct grounds. In the first place the grant was made as a mark of the country's gratitude to the Royal and illustrious person who had been named, for the admirable manner in which she had educated the Princess Victoria, and for having placed on the throne of Great Britain not only the most accomplished but the most beloved Sovereign of Europe. The second ground was the remembrance which they had of the heavy charge which had been imposed upon her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, and the care, pains, and labour which that Royal person had expended on the education which had effected these accomplishments which now adorned their Queen. It was upon these two grounds that he had given his support to the motion of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer). If the grant had been proposed merely as a testimony of their respect and admiration for her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent he would agree that it ought not to be granted. He thought it would be a very bad precedent to give the public money away merely out of respect or esteem to individuals, because they held exalted situations, and were placed near the throne; but he must say the case was very different when the grant was made as a mark of the country's gratitude for services so important and so efficiently rendered as those
 1068
 Mr. Courtenay  said, that t boh sides of the House the real facts of the case seemed not to be understood. matter was one of simple calculation, and as the right hon. Gentleman he Chancellor of the Exchequer, had apologied for the manner in which he had discharged his duty he (Mr. Courtenay) would not hesitate to supply one deficiency in the statement which the right hon. Gentleman had made. The truth was, that the right hon. Gentleman had not brought the matter forward in a way that was very intelligible. Hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House seemed to suppose that this was an additional grant of 8,000 l l
 Mr. Bernal  brought up the report of the resolution for granting 8,000 l.
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  could not agree to reject the bill. He considered the principle of the measure valuable. At the same time, he could never agree to a provision that the landlord should have the power to eject without inquiry as to whether the tenancy had ceased. That, however, could be remedied in a Committee of the whole House, or a Committee upstairs. He thought there should be a cheap mode of ascertaining whether the tenancy had ceased, for the expense was at present a great difficulty, especially to a poor man; he considered that some summary mode of ascertaining this should be agreed to.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that the pension to Prince George had been of a different description to other pensions. With regard to the 21,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thanked his right hon. Friend for the objection which he had stated, and the mode in which he had made that objection. His right hon. Friend was quite right as to the intention of her Majesty's Government. The object which they had in view certainly was to give to her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent an income of 30,000 l. 1065 l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the Government had no intention to do in the case of the King of Hanover that which they could not do in the case of the King of Belgium. The pension was granted by the law of the land, and he was not prepared to introduce a Bill affecting it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the conduct of King Leopold with respect to the pension granted to him on his marriage with the late Princess Charlotte was most honourable. As soon as his position with respect to this country had been altered by his accession to the throne of Belgium, he made arrangements for vesting his pension in the hands of trus-
 1062 l. l.
 Mr. Wakley , although he had voted last Session against the measure, yet thought that the House ought immediately to adopt some remedy. He thought the course to pursue, if the hon. Member for Cockermouth would agree to it, would be to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, where it might be advantageously considered with another Bill, which had been introduced for the rating of small tenements—one Bill being for the relief of landlords, and the other for the relief of tenants. It appeared to him that the two measures could be very properly blended, and this could be easily accomplished if referred to a Select Committee. It was clear that the proposition contained in this Bill would never be satisfactorily arranged in a Committee of the whole House. It had been tried in two Sessions, and had signally failed, and they had heard to-night that it would be impossible to make it a law without violating some of the first principles of the statute and common law of the land. Besides, the hon. Member for Cocker mouth was of a different opinion now from
 1056
 Sir Harry Verney  thought, that landlords ought to be protected by some bill —he would not say the present bill in its present state; but they ought to be protected, and he would vote for the second reading of it, in order that its provisions might be discussed.
 The Solicitor-General  was aware that the question which his hon. Friend (Mr. Aglionby) had brought forward was so surrounded with difficulties that they had only a choice of difficulties to deal with. The question was, whether it was so clear that the balance of probabilities was against the bill, and that they should refuse to entertain it. If the evil were admitted, he knew of no better remedies than those which were proposed in the bill, and the motive for bringing the bill forward was the impossibility, under the present law, of ejecting tenants who had small holdings. It was said that this was essentially a landlord's bill—and so, indeed, it ought to be called if it gave a proper remedy to an injured landlord. If it did more than that it was an improper bill, but if it only redressed an injured landlord they would disgrace themselves if they did not entertain it, lest it should be said that it was altogether a landlord's bill. Was the landlord, he would ask, the only person interested in this bill. Had it never occurred to the hon. Member that individuals would be loth to embark their money in building small cottages if they had not some security like this? and thus, though indirectly, the Bill operated for the benefit of the tenant as well as the landlord. Individuals were now put to the inconvenience of a tedious process of ejectment, whereas by this bill the individual, having given security, or a declaration on oath before one or two magistrates, the tenant in the tenantry was expelled. It was competent to a magistrate to alter the relative position of the parties, forcibly putting the one in possession, and leaving the other to his remedy at law. There were many causes, it might be said, in which parties clearly supposed themselves to be holding as ordinary tenants, whereas it might be proved that they held by payment of a quit rent. The parties could not have an absolute security. This was a mere question of practice, and he thought the difficulty which had been thrown in the way by the hon. Member for Chester tended only to show that the balance was in favour of, and not against, the bill. It was perhaps a matter of
 1053
 Lord Morpeth  replied, that steps would be taken which he trusted would have the effect of satisfying the conscientious scruples to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred. It was proposed that those children who wished to have the opportunity of reading the Sacred Scriptures should have a separate room afforded them for that purpose in a different part of the school. There were other matters of detail to be adopted re-
 1061
 Lord Sandon  said, that the evil of the present system was acknowledged by all parties as one which was grievous to both landlord and tenant. He thought that the bill should be read a second time, in order that its provisions might be discussed in Committee.
 Mr. B. D'Israeli  would be extremely happy if an expeditious and inexpensive mode of redress could be established against the system of piracy that was carried on. He had been requested to give his support to the Bill by some of the most eminent literary characters. It would give him great pleasure if the subject was taken up by her Majesty's present Government, and he would be glad if the law was perfected even under their auspices.
 Mr. Wallace  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Forbes  recommended caution on the subject. He would not oppose the bringing in of a bill, but he reserved to himself the right of stating his objections to it in its progress. He did not know what might be the case at Glasgow; but with reference to any part of Scotland with which he was acquainted, he did not believe that licences were ever refused on political grounds.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, the hon. Gentleman had acted wisely in leaving the part of this Bill relating to piracies to the Government, which had already taken the matter into serious consideration. He removed many objections to the Bill by confining it to copyrights at home, for the other matter was so mixed up with Custom-house regulations that it was full of difficulties. He trusted, however, that Government would be enabled to succeed, and it had already considerable negotiations going forward upon the subject. He would early after the recess, introduce a measure on the subject, which would, he hoped, insure the result of the explanation he had caused to be entered into with foreign countries, establishing with those countries a reciprocity of interest with respect to copyrights.
 Mr. Maclean  contended, that the declarations made by the noble Lord in the course of his speech were at variance with those which he had made on a former occasion. In a former debate, the noble Lord had censured the conduct of Russia with respect to Circassia. On that occasion the noble Lord had stated that though Russia was not bound to that particular step by the treaty of London, yet she had
 1112 mare clausum,
 Mr. Baines  was quite aware of the answer that would be returned when he put the question; but, finding that there had been circulated through the country a report very much to the disadvantage of the Colonial-office, he was determined that an opportunity should be given for the correction of that report.
 Mr. Baines  wished to ask the Vice-President of the Board of Trade in his place, as he had been chairman of a Select Committee which sat last year to inquire into the system of negro apprenticeship, how it was that the evidence taken before that Committee had been communicated in the West Indies, while it had been thought advisable to withhold it from that House?
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer  sincerely thanked the hon. and learned Member for his introduction of such a Bill. He was sure the House could not be aware of the extent to which literary piracy had gone. As soon as a book was published the press of France reprinted it at one-fifth the original price, and the country thus became deluged with foreign piracies. He thought the Government ought to take steps to prevent such occurrences.
 Sir E. Sugden  believed that men had very little notion of the intensity of a mother's affection for her children. But the question to be considered was whether the Bill proposed by the hon. and learned Member would not present a motive to induce separations between husbands and wives. The cases which the hon. and learned Member had cited were cases in which the fault was on the side of the husband; while those acquainted with life must well know that there were many cases in which the faults were on the part of the wife. In a future stage he should take the sense of the House respecting the Bill.
 Sir G. Sinclair  felt convinced that it was quite unnecessary, as far as the House was concerned, for the hon. Member to make the denial.
 Mr. Labouchere  could assure the hon. Gentleman that he was in no way implicated in the matter. That Committee had decided that the evidence should not be reported to the House, and he had not, communicated it to any party. Certainly some complaints had reached him of that evidence having transpired in the West Indies, while it was the fact that it had not been communicated to the House. Now he would bring something to the hon. Member's recollection which might account for the matter. The hon. Member would recollect it was proposed and carried in Committee, with no other dissentient than himself (Mr. Labouchere), that those parts of the evidence which bore on the conduct of particular planters should be sent out to them. The resolution was supported by Mr. F. Buxton, by the hon. Member for Leeds, and those Members who thought with them. He had been no party to communicate that evidence, except in so far as he had been directed to do so by the Committee. On |the contrary, one of the grounds of his objection to the resolution was, that the evidence might transpire and give rise to some such misconceptions as appeared to | have taken place. He hoped that the answer would be satisfactory to the hon.; Member, and that he would acquit him (Mr. Labouchere) of any underhand conduct in the matter.
 Mr. Dennistoun , after calling attention to a petition he had presented on a former day from the spirit dealers of Glasgow, respecting the existing licensing system, moved for leave to bring in a bill to amend a law relating to the granting of spirit licences in Scotland. His object was to do away with the necessity of a spirit retailer seeking a renewal of his licence each year, and to provide that, having once obtained a licence upon the requisite certificate of character, he should be allowed to sell under that licence without question until objection should be made to him. In addition to the trouble and inconvenience inseparable from the system of annual licences, it placed, in his opinion, too much unnecessary power in the hands of unpaid and irresponsible magistrates, who not unfrequently used that power in the promotion of their political views.
 Mr. Leader : I have great pleasure in seconding the motion of my learned Friend. In his admirable speech he has shown what the law now is upon this subject, and where it is peculiarly harsh and cruel. No man who has given this subject the smallest consideration can deny that the law requires some alteration, if in making and executing laws regard should be had to common sense, and justice, and humanity, and if in those laws especially which relate to the intercourse of the sexes, fair protection should be afforded by the stronger sex, who make the laws, to the weaker sex, for whom the law is made, who have no voice whatever in making the law, whose interests are entirely in the hands and at the mercy of the law-makers, and who, having nothing to do with the law but to obey it, ask merely for protection against the cruelty and injustice which may be (and I grieve to say is too often) perpetrated by a brutal tyrant, fortified by the letter of the law. As it stands at present, the law is entirely in favour of the husband and oppressive to the wife. A man who may be drunken, immoral, vicious, and utterly brutalized, may place his wife, who seeks to live separately from him, in this cruel dilemma—"You shall either continue to live with me, or you shall be deprived of your children." The wife, in such a case, has no redress. It may be notorious that she has just grounds for complaint, that it would be misery for her to live with her husband; it may be well known that she possesses her children's sympathy and affection, and that the husband disregards his children, and is disregarded, if not disliked by them. It may be admitted that the wife is the fitter person to have the care of the early education of her children, to form their habits, to minister to their childish wants to soothe them in trouble, and to tend them in sickness. All this may be admitted; but the law sternly refuses to listen to the pleadings of natural sympathies and affections, gives to the husband the charge and possession of the children, and denies even the sight of them to the beloved and loving mother. How many mothers, rather than submit to such a deprivation, are driven to choose the other alternative, and
 1091
 Mr. Hume  was happy to hear the statement made by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; for he hoped that it opened a prospect of legislating on good principles upon this subject. The system adopted in Ireland was working well there. Why not apply equal justice to the beer and spirit dealers in England?
 Mr. Hume , seeing the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Control, in his place, was anxious to put to him a question in which a great many individuals were interested. It was a repetition of the question which he put last year, namely, as to when it might be expected those persons who served in the last war in India would receive their prize-money? He hoped he would receive a satisfactory answer, as he had every week three or four applications on the subject from pensioners who were advanced in years, and to whom this money was a great object.
 Mr. Attwood , seeing that the sense of the House was against his pressing the
 1113
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  rose and said, that recollecting how he had been admonished in the course of last Session, he would on the present occasion confine himself to the object of his motion. It was said that we ought not to be surprised at anything in human affairs. Now, he was not so far advanced in life as to be incapable of feeling surprise. He had felt surprised on many occasions, and he certainly felt much surprised that her Majesty's Ministers should have met Parliament, and that neither in the speech from the Throne, nor from any of her Majesty's Ministers since, had they heard a single word respecting the distress that existed amongst the industrious classes. He was also surprised at the indifference of her Majesty's Ministers as to the position which Russia was assuming in the affairs
 1094 Laughter Great laughter 1095 A laugh 1096 1097 l 1098 The London Gazette, The London Gazette, 1099 Hume 1100 Laughter. 1101 1 1102 1
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the subject matter of the hon. Member's bill was one, not of revenue, but police consideration, and that it was exclusively in that point of view it was to be considered. He had long felt the system of annual licensing must act as a hardship upon the spirit dealers, while, as a matter of police, the licence being in the first instance duly obtained upon the production of certificate of character, it struck him that the annual renewal was wholly unnecessary. He therefore did not object to the motion, and on the proper occasion would be ready to give it every due consideration.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  observed, that the Bill he proposed made no change in the custody of the children, but permitted access to them, and that only to be obtained upon application to the Lord Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, or some of the twelve judges.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd , in moving for leave to bring in a bill to amend the law of copyright, observed that the Bill he now proposed was in substance similar to that which had been read a second time in the last
 1092
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  rose and spoke as follows:—As the bill which I am about to request leave to introduce is the same in substance with one which was read a second time last Session, I might, perhaps, venture to anticipate that there will be no objection to its introduction now, and might content myself with simply naming it. But as the subject then passed without development on my part, or discussion on the part of the House, and as the actual bearing of the law which I seek to alter may not be familiar to the minds of those who are fortunately strangers to the circumstances to which it applies, I think it better in this stage to ask the indulgence of the House for a short time while I state what the grievances are which I shall call on them partially to redress. The subject has reference to the rights of parents in relation to their children, when the natural state of joint superintendence and protection is broken by unhappy differences, which compel or induce them to separate, without involving any breach of the marriage tie on the part of the mother. Many, I believe, there are who pass their years in the tranquil enjoyment of domestic happiness, uniting their exertions to mould the character and contribute to the innocent delights of their children, and sharing in the requital which expanding intellect and ripening affections reflect back upon them, from whom the stern power with which the law arms one of the parents is veiled by the gentler influences, or who, if
 1083 habeas corpus 1084 habeas corpus habeas corpus habeas corpus 1085 habeas corpus habeas corpus 1086 "Some conduct on the part of the father with reference to the management and education of the child, must be shown to warrant an interference with his legal right, and I am bound to say, that in this case there does not appear to me to be sufficient to deprive the father of his common-law right to the care and custody of his child. It resolves itself into a case for authorities, and I must consider what has been looked upon as the law on this point. I do not know that I have any authority to interfere. I do not know of any case similar to this which would authorise my making the order sought, in either alternative. If any could be found I would most gladly adopt it; for, in a moral point of view, I know
 1087 a fortiori 1088 1089 habeas corpus "as on joint and limb With answerable pains, but more intense." 1090
 Sir E. Codrington  seconded the motion, which he considered one of great importance, and deserving the serious attention of the House and of the country.
 1103 1104
 Sir G. Grey  denied in the most unequivocal manner the charge that had been
 1082
 Sir J. Hobhouse , in reply to the question of his hon. Friend, had to state that a year ago the Committee for the distribution of the prize-money notified that from that day the distribution of it would begin to the officers and privates in India; and just at this time a notification had been issued naming all the European officers and men who, after those in India had received the share due to them, would be able to receive theirs in England. But his hon. Friend must perceive that some time would necessarily elapse in the transmission of the names from England. He could assure his hon. Friend, that he was
 1081
 Mr. M. L. Chapman  said, that in Ireland the practice of annual licensing had been altogether discontinued, and now a man having once obtained a licence, unless objected to, was not required to come before the magistrates to seek for a renewal. This plan had been found to work well, and might serve the hon. Mover as a precedent.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought that the hon. and Learned Gentleman had acted wisely in separating that part of his Bill which related to the fine arts from that which
 1093
 Viscount Palmerston : I will, Sir, in the first place, answer the questions put to me by the hon. Member for Birmingham before I make the remarks which I consider called for by his motion. His question is, whether any measures have been adopted by the Government to prevent Russia from proceeding with the naval armament at Cronstadt? With regard to the building and equipping of a fleet, no Government can say to another what ships are you about to fit out; but unquestionably one government is entitled to speak to another when raising a considerable force which appears to indicate an intention to give cause of uneasiness to her allies; and, beyond doubt, the presence and equipage of the seamen of the whole of the Russian fleet, as it was collected in the Baltic two or three years ago, called for explanation between the Governments of England and Russia. That explanation was satisfactory as it regarded this Government; and although since that time a large number of vessels have been fitted out for the purposes of review, there has not been any-such display of naval force in the Baltic as
 1105 1106 "I have alone stated what I know will not excite the sympathy of my Radical friends. I am alone in favour of something which the House of Commons, by their attendance on the present occasion, do not seem to approve, and to which those who are present do not appear, by their postures and countenances, to attend to with a very lively interest, or to partake in the alarm which I have expressed. Out of doors no notice is taken of my project by a base, unfeeling, and heedless press, which seems to be unconscious of the insult which is offered to our country. I have no support from the Government of the country, and the people of England do not concur in my remarks." 1107 1108 1109 1110 1111
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that it was always regarded most proper that hon. Gentlemen should consent to the Government being allowed to bring on its business at that which it considered to be the most suitable time for doing so. It was, he thought, much more proper to bring on the grant of the civil list to her Majesty rather than the nomination of the Pension List Committee. He begged to
 1118
 Sir G. Sinclair  stated, that if it was to be understood that the question would not be brought on before ten or eleven at night he should be satisfied, and to press his amendment.
 Mr. Harvey  trusted, that the hon. Member would persevere in his motion, because it was the first time in which reference had been made to an individual Member of that House in the manner that a reference had been made to him upon this point. He did not consider it becoming nor fair to allow a Member of that House to stand upon the votes of that House in the manner that he was, leaving it to be a matter of conjecture, and of whispers to all sorts of irresponsible persons, as to the intentions of others respecting him. He had been asked by almost every Gentleman coming into that House, whether or not he was to be on the Committee? If it were true, as it was the impression of the country, that Members of a Committee were well paid, then, perhaps, any anxiety experienced might be excusable; but when he looked to the labour and the toil and the nature of his other avocations, he might well say that he should be very well pleased to be excused altogether. He thought, however, it was due to him from the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say, whether it was intended or not to put him on the list of the Committee, he being the individual with whom the inquiry originated. The right hon. Gentleman had taken this matter out of his hands, after he had, through good report and through evil report, conducted it to its present position, and so far, too, had the compliment been paid to him that the right hon. Gentleman had adopted his resolution; and yet after all this it was permitted to be a matter of conjecture whether he was to be on the Committee. Now, he wished to be relieved from all apprehension on the subject, and he begged to say that if the right hon. Gentleman was not at that moment prepared to say, whether he was to be on the Committee or not he would not serve on it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, that the hon. Gentleman had said that unless he was then prepared to make a certain statement, that hon. Gentleman would not serve on the Pension List Com-
 1119
 Mr. Aglionby  observed, that the resolution had arisen out of a report of a Select Committee which had sat last Session on the subject of the public business of that House, and was intended to meet the inconvenience which had resulted from the practice too frequently adopted by hon. Members of selecting the motion for the reading of an order of the day as an occasion for bringing forward motions of their own totally irrelevant to the subject matter of that order of the day. Such having been the origin of the resolution of the 24th of November, he thought that the present dilemma in the application of it might be got rid of, either by adhering to the spirit of the resolution itself, which intended that the subject matter of the order of the day should not be got rid of by irrelevant amendments, or by proceeding, in strict accordance with the words of the resolution, to the second order of the day.
 Mr. Hume  would shortly state his objections to the vote. He did not think it was in accordance with the principle on which the House had acted with reference to other establishments. It was founded on the civil list as settled in 1816, one of the most extravagant periods of modern times. We had endeavoured to reduce the other establishments, and to render
 1161 l. l. 1162 l., l.; l., l.; l., l. l. l. l. 1163 l., l. l. l. l. l. 1164 l.; l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to defend the resolution as adopted in the Committee. He begged to remind the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that when he compared the establishments of 1792 with the establishments at the present time, he was endeavouring to institute a comparison between two periods which had but little in common with each other. Since the period to which the hon. Member was so much in the habit of referring, a very great and a very beneficial change had been effected in every one of those departments of which the hon. Member most complained. In earlier times, the mere official salaries that were paid constituted but a very small portion of the emoluments actually received. In earlier times, as the hon. Member for Kilkenny well knew, there was a vast amount of fees, of perquisites, and of other emoluments, which did not find their way into the estimates in the shape of salary, but which were nevertheless included in the charges of the several departments. In consequence of suggestions frequently urged upon the House since the year 1812, and especially by the hon. Member for Kilkenny himself, a commission of inquiry was appointed to look into the whole of the fees of the household, with the view of amending the
 1165 l. l. 1166 d. d. s. s. d. s. s. d. 1167
 Mr. Hawes  was not prepared to say that his hen. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, had made out a case for so large an amount of reduction as he bad proposed; but, while saying this, he was compelled to declare, that he conceived that the present civil list was larger than that which was granted in the last reign. The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, indicated his dissent from that proposition. He would shortly state the grounds on which he believed it to be perfectly correct. The amount of the civil list, in the last reign, was 510,000 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 1169 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that the observations of his hon. Friend had been made in a tone and temper which entitled them to every attention. The calculations, however, which he had referred to were not quite fair, and would tend very much to mislead the Committee, if they adopted the figures quoted by him. His hon. Friend wished the House and the public to understand that the proposed civil list was larger in amount than the civil list of his late Majesty. His hon. Friend said there was now no Queen Consort, and therefore 50,000 l. l. 1170 l. l. l. l. 1171 l., 1172
 Mr. Grote  observed, that there were two points in the speech of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Portsmouth, which seemed to require special notice. One was the rise in the price of articles of provisions since 1792, and, from the tenor of the hon. Gentleman's observations, it would seem fortunate that a civil list had not been proposed of double the present amount, for such was the only inference which could be drawn from those remarks. In the next place he must remark on the extreme inutility of the Committee, of which he and the hon. Secretary for the Treasury were Members. If the civil list
 1173 l.
 Captain Pechell  said, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had omitted to notice the fact, that whilst the fees in the Lord Chamberlain's department were done away with, the fees in the office of the Lord Steward were to be still left in existence. He thought that it was high time that her Majesty's tradesmen should be relieved from the payment of the present enormous fees for procuring their warrants. There was another point to which he wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and it related to the department of the Master of the Horse. As all the Queen's pages were now presented with commissions in the Guards after a certain period of service, he suggested that commissions in the navy should also be held out as an inducement and reward for good conduct. His late Majesty William 4th had introduced naval men in many situations previously occupied exclusively by military men; and as there were four pages connected with the Master of the Horse's department, he suggested that two of these should be chosen from persons fit to have commissions in the navy. And if the right hon. Gentleman should meet with any difficulties in procuring fit persons from among the midshipmen, he might possibly be able to furnish him in a few years with a candidate for the office.
 Lord John Russell  rose only to take the opportunity of contradicting the mistake into which the hon. Member for Liskeard had fallen; he was entirely in error in supposing that the great officers attending
 1176
 Mr. Kemble  had been returned as a Conservative, and he should be sorry in the most remote degree to detract from the comfort or the dignity of the Crown; but he thought that he should be best acting up to his character as a Conservative by supporting a due and proper regard for economy in that House. He could not conscientiously vote, for the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny and support a reduction to the amount of 50,000 l. 1177 l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Harvey  thought, that he should have no great difficulty in inducing the hon. Member for Surrey to vote for the reduction of the proposed sum by an amount considerably larger than he had stated. Was the House disposed to throw away the lights of experience. It was no speculation as to the amount of the expences of the royal household. The report of the Civil List Committee, imperfect as it was in many respects, yet was sufficiently full to give some clue to the amount. At page 11 of the report there was a summary of the aggregate money received by the Crown during the six years of William the Fourth's reign. The total received during this period was 3,060,000 l., 1178 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l., 1179 l.
 Mr. Kemble : I never said I would move the House on the subject; and I will ask the hon. Member what he means by Conservative contrition. I only expressed my regret that I should be obliged to vote with the other side of the House under certain circumstances; but I deny that I expressed any Conservative contrition; but on the contrary, I glory in the principles which I profess.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he felt it his duty to state that the excess of the revenue was appropriated to purposes with which he thought the Committee would entirely agree. The balance had been appropriated to the payment of the funeral expenses of his late Majesty. He would offer one word with regard to the observations made by the hon. Member for Surrey. He said that there was an excess in the present civil list over that which was before agreed to, and that there was a surplus of 10,000 l. l. l, l. l. l. 1180 l. l. l. l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Clay  observed, that from the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it appeared, that the sum to be voted for unappropriated money was 8,000 l.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, it was quite true that a reduction had been made in the salaries of the higher offices to the amount of 8,000 l., l.
 Mr. Townley Parker  wished to know, whether the Government intended to retain the office of the Master of the Horse, and that branch of the royal establishment? He asked this question in consequence of the sale by her Majesty's Ministers of the splendid stud belonging to his late Majesty, at Hampton Court, a proceeding which, in his mind, inflicted the greatest disgrace on the country.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to inform the hon. Member, that the sale of the royal stud was not the act of her Majesty's Ministers, but of the executors of the late Sovereign, the stud being the private property of his Majesty.
 Lord Eliot  remarked that, although he was willing to accede to the hon. Member for Liskeard the credit of having made a clear and perspicuous speech, still he could not help thinking that, if that hon. Member had listened attentively to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would find that most of the grounds on which he had rested his views had been taken from under his feet. If he understood the speech of that right hon. Gentleman rightly, he took it for granted that measures would be introduced which would prove not more satisfactory to the country at large than to the county of Cornwall. He had the most perfect confidence that the right hon. Gentleman would introduce two Bills which would have the effect of removing, at least, a large portion of the grievances of which the hon. and learned
 1142
 Lord J. Russell  said, that with respect to the form of the amendment by which the question for the Speaker's leaving the chair might be met, he believed that on former occasions it had been usual to move that the Bill be committed that day six months or that day three months, without the introduction of any matter irrelevant to the subject-matter of the Bill.
 Lord J. Russell  was understood to say, that he thought that if the question that the Speaker do now leave the chair were put, the hon. Member would be competent to move an amendment to that question. From what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, and from his own knowledge of the orders of the House, he apprehended that this could be done. He should therefore move that the Speaker "do now leave the chair."
 Lord John Russell  said, he thought that his hon. Friend, who had just spoken with great force and effect, did not quite understand the proposition which her Majesty's Government were about to make. The hon. Member would lead the House to suppose, in the beginning of his speech, that no advice was given to her Majesty on the subject, and that an interval of a few days ought to be allowed, in order to lay the question before the Queen. Now, so far was this from being the case, that it might be gathered from the statement of his right hon. Friend that the question
 1145 1146 1147 l., l., l., 1148
 Mr. Hawes , seeing the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, would ask him whether it was the intention of the Government to give effect to the recommendation of the Commissioners of the Post-office, contained in their ninth report relating to the reduction of the rates of postage, and the issuing of penny stamps?
 Mr. C. Buller  hoped a mere formal objection on the ground that the consent of the Crown had not been obtained would not be suffered to present an insurmountable barrier to the consideration of
 1136
 Mr. C. Buller  would move that the Speaker should not leave the chair till Monday. Well, that he should never leave the chair.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, it was his intention to move as an amendment that the Bill be committed on Monday. He did not wish to interpose any unnecessary delay in the way of public business, but he wished for the House to have time to ascertain whether her Majesty's consent would be given to it to legislate upon this subject. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had kept his word on this subject, for it was plain from the outset that he never intended to do anything satisfactory in reference to it. The revenues of the duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall were part of the revenues of the Crown, and he thought it rather extraordinary that they should be allowed to be retained in their present state, when every other branch of the hereditary revenues of the Crown had been given up, and this, as it appeared, only on account of some barbarous feudal rights which people chose to connect with the subject. The only object which could be had in view
 1140 1141
 Mr. C. Buller  asked whether the noble Lord really supposed that the Representatives of the people of England could be put off by such a miserable pretence as that? If he was not to be permitted to discuss the subject to-night, he should move as an amendment that the further debate on this motion be adjourned till Monday next. He really thought it rather extraordinary that such a question as this should have to be discussed at the present day.
 Mr. Harvey  having moved an amendment which he found, owing to some form of the House, could not be put without the consent of the Crown, should certainly bow to the decision of the Chair and withdraw it. At the same time, as he apprehended that it was quite competent to any Member at this stage of the proceedings to move any motion which he thought proper by way of amendment, he should now move that this debate be adjourned until her Majesty's Ministers had signified that her Majesty had consented to allow the House of Commons to take the consideration of the revenues of the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster into account in connexion with the other hereditary revenues of the Crown, and to make such appropriation of them as they might think necessary. He (Mr. Harvey) could not believe that there could exist any desire on the part of her Majesty's Ministers to stifle so important a subject as this at the present moment, because the House should recollect that if it were not dealt with now, it could never in all pos-
 1138
 Mr. Harvey  considered that this was the most appropriate time for bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, "That it be an instruction to the Committee that due provision be made in the Civil List Bill for the protection of the right of Parliament to inquire into and to appropriate the revenues of the duchy of Cornwall and the duchy of Lancaster respectively," and in proposing his motion, he must say, that he was greatly surprised this important question was not brought forward under the sanction of her Majesty's Government, for while he was disposed to make every allowance for the heated expressions employed in party conflicts, he could not banish from his mind the solemn declarations made upon this subject by many who were now the supporters of her Majesty's Government. It would be in the recollection of many hon. Members he now addressed, that when the civil list was last brought under the notice of the House by the Government of the Duke of Wellington and the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, one of the most distinguished persons then connected with the opposition (perhaps not the nominal leader, but, beyond comparison, the ablest man amongst them, and the more able because of his legal pretensions) declared his conviction that the terms of his Majesty's speech implied the surrender of these revenues to the services of the public, and
 1120 1121 1122 l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l., 1123 l 1124 1125 1126 1127 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 1128 l. l. l., l., l. l, l. l., l 1129 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l., l., 1130 l., l., l., l., l. l. hon. Member: l. 1131 Hear, hear.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that as a new question had been brought before the House he should claim its indulgence for a few moments. In his opinion the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, had raised the interest of the question. They had heard much lately of "fine old English gentlemen;" for his part he liked, of all things, to hear a fine old English prerogative Member of Parliament. That hon. Baronet had hardily and at once stated that the revenues of these duchies were the private property of the Crown, and that Parliament would have no more right, and just as much, to break open his iron chest and appropriate his money as to claim these revenues. That was intelligible language, and he quite believed him when he said that if he were Minister he would not incur the responsibility of proposing the arrangement suggested by Government. He agreed with the hon. Baronet, Ministers either went too far, or not far enough. They amused themselves with dandling the dwarfish and rickety child of expediency, but it was now full time to give over. Surely it was time after the lapse of seven years to give up playing the wet-nurse with their bantling, and allow it to assume the form and features of human life. They were told that this was a bargain with the Crown. If so, it was a one-sided bargain. They were told that her Majesty was willing to place the property of the Crown at
 1153 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. 1154 l. l. Laughter during which Mr. Hume lifted up his head" l. 1155 l. l. 1156 l. l. l. l. 1157 1158 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Baines  did not think the hon. Member for Bridport had made out his argument. If they would refer to the origin of the duchy of Lancaster it would be
 1152
 Mr. G. F. Young  thought, that the people of England sought, not only in regard of the civil list as well as every other topic, not only for knowledge, but the fruits of knowledge. They wanted some benefit from the reforms which it was announced were to take place. What he wanted to know was, what would be the benefit to the public of investigation into the nature
 1150 l.
 Mr. Warburton  contended, that the vesting of the duchies of Cornwall and Lancanster in the Commissioners of Woods and Forests would be of great advantage not only to the local inhabitants but to the country at large; and he did not see how Government could refuse to accede to the proposition when an ample equivalent was given. It was a great hardship that the Nullum Tempus Act should be available for the claims made under these duchies when it was abolished everywhere else, even to the claims of the Church and all other claims of the Crown. If the property in these duchies could be improved, the advantage thus accruing ought to be made available for the public benefit. This principle was the one adopted by Ministers in the bill of last Session. They contended that if by a new arrangement of the possessions of the Church a new or increased property would be made, that increase should go, not to the benefit of the Church, but to that of the public. He did not know how, under the present circumstances, Government could refuse to acknowledge and act upon the same principle with respect to these two duchies.
 Mr. Warburton  suggested, as an amendment, that the further consideration of this subject should be adjourned until her Majesty's Ministers had signified the consent of her Majesty to their taking the subject of the revenues of the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster into their consideration in connexion with it.
 The Speaker  said, that the Order of the Day for the House resolving itself into Committee on the Civil List Bill having been read, the question which would naturally follow was, that he (the Speaker) should leave the Chair. In the interim, however, an hon. Member had moved an instruction to the Committee, which was of a nature which he thought could not be entertained by the House. The question now was, whether the House would entertain another motion, of quite a different class, and not connected with the subject matter of the Bill, to intervene between the question that he leave the Chair. He believed it was competent to an hon. Member to move an instruction to the Committee upon the motion for leaving the Chair, but he was not aware that he could move anything else.
 The Speaker  reminded the House of the resolution of the 24th of November, which declared "that upon days appropriated to orders, and a question being put from the Chair that an order of the day be read, no amendment shall be proposed, except that the orders of the day, or that any order set down for the same day, be now read; but that this regulation shall not apply to the case of a Committee of Supply, or a Committee of Ways and Means." He had already stated that the order of the day for going into Committee on the Civil List Bill had been read; since then an instruction had been moved to the Committee, which it was questioned whether the House could entertain. But he thought it was not competent to any Member to make any other motion previous to his leaving the Chair, unless in the form of an instruction to the Committee.
 The Speaker  reminded the hon. Member that the motion before the House was an instruction to a Committee. If the House was of opinion that this was a motion which could not be entertained without the consent of the Crown previously obtained, the House should consider whether it was prepared to enter upon the discussion of a question upon which it was not competent to give a decision.
 The Speaker  replied, that in his opinion, where a proposition had been made which the House could not maintain, that proposition must at once drop.
 The Speaker  said, it was essential that the House should put its own construction upon its own resolution. The question for the House to decide was whether, consistently with the resolution of the
 1139
 The Speaker  could not answer any question which did not refer to the matter immediately before the House. He had expressed an opinion, that the proposition
 1137
 The Speaker  said, there was no question before the House, unless the House were prepared to enter upon the discussion of the instruction to the Committee moved by the hon. Member for Southwark. If, on the contrary, this instruction were withdrawn, the question would then be put that he (the Speaker) do now leave the chair.
 The Speaker  said, that he had some doubts as to the propriety in point of form of the present amendment. The House would recollect that last night a motion for a Bill by an hon. Member was withdrawn because notice was taken that her Majesty's recommendation for taking the subject into consideration had not been previously obtained. From the facts of the question now sought to be introduced before the House, there could be no doubt that the revenues of the Duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall were vested in the Crown; and therefore, if any Member of Parliament would seek to propose any Bill which should interfere with those revenues, he was incompetent to do so without having previously obtained the consent of the Crown. If an hon. Member were incompetent under such circumstances to introduce a Bill on the subject, he thought every hon. Member must be equally incompetent to move an instruction to a Committee on another Bill which should operate indirectly towards the same end.
 Mr. Brotherton  thought, that if the public were to have the trouble of improving the duchy revenues, while all the benefit was to go to the Crown, they would be losers instead of gainers, by the transaction. What he should propose was, that in proportion as the rentals of the duchy estates were increased there should be a deduction from the Parliamentary grant.
 Mr. Hume  was glad that the abuses of the present system by which this duchy was managed, were, at all events, acknowledged. The propositions which the right hon. Gentleman made would be of great advantage; for they would tend to show what the real revenue of this duchy was, not the present income derived from it; for that, he feared, would be found small, owing to the gross mismanagement which had prevailed, but which it might be made to produce. The next improvement to be desired was, that the care of these revenues should not be left to an irresponsible person, but intrusted to that House. Now, here arose a question which was of the greatest importance. The people of England ought to know what were the whole of the revenues which appertained to the Crown, and the revenues of these duchies were never brought before the Civil List Committee. The consequence was, that the Committee recommended a grant which they considered sufficient and adequate to maintain the dignity and honour of the Crown. The sure recommended to be given was 385,000 l., l.
 Mr. Hume  asked whether he were to understand that the House could not discuss any question relative to the Duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall without the consent of the Crown? If that were the doctrine laid down by the Chair, he (Mr. Hume) apprehended that it was quite a new one; for he had been in the House at least half a dozen times when this very subject was discussed.
 Mr. Hume  inquired, whether an amendment could be moved upon the proposed instruction, or whether the instruction itself must be altogether withdrawn?
 Mr. Hume  asked, whether the House was to understand that an adjournment of this question could not be moved?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer.  Certainly.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there were many matters adverted to in the hon. and learned Member's speech, connected not only with his present motion but with the subject of the civil list, and the annuity proposed to be granted to the Duchess of Kent, which, at another time, would have called for some observations from him; but he should endeavour, notwithstanding the provocation given by the hon. and learned Gentleman, to postpone any discussion on the subjects until the House had them properly brought before it, and he would reply merely to that portion of the hon. and
 1132 1133 1134 1135
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not prepared to give the hon. Gentleman any expectation that he should carry into effect all the recommendations of that report, but some of them he certainly should. He was about to try the experiment of issuing the penny stamp covers, to see how far that contributed to the convenience of the public. He, however, had some doubts on the subject. With respect to the postage duties in the metropolitan districts, he contemplated a reduction, and he did not intend that such reduction should be confined to the metropolitan districts. He conceived that the amount of the lower classes of postage was too high—he meant the four-penny post. He thought that that charge was disproportioned to the service; and the less the distance was from London the more likely was the object of a high duty to be defeated by private communication. There were much greater facilities, for example, for the transmission of a letter privately from London to such a distance as Richmond, than from London to Aberdeen, He, therefore, proposed to make a large experiment as regarded the reduction of the rates of postage for the shorter distance. He intended to reduce them one-half. A strict account would be taken of the amount at present collected under the 4 d. 1117
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked, they would try the latter experiment first on the twopenny post. If it succeeded they could try it on an extended scale; at the same time he was bound to say, that while he did not wish to speak disparagingly of an attempt he was himself about to try, he must add that he was not very sanguine as to the result.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that, so far from finding fault with the discussion which had been that night
 1149
 Sir Charles Lemon  thought it right to advert in the first place to the courts of this Duchy. He believed the fact to be, that half the salaries of those employed in these tribunals was paid by the Government. He was inclined to believe, that the reason why no message was brought down from her Majesty, was because she had not been advised to make any, and he should vote for the motion for delay, in order to afford her Majesty and the Government time to arrive at such a conclusion as would be satisfactory to the House and the country. He felt very grateful to his right hon. Friend for the promise which he had made, not only that the accounts of the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster should be laid regularly before the House, but also that some new system should be introduced for the better administration of their affairs. But he must confess, that what was now proposed, was not at all satisfactory with reference to the ease and dignity of the Queen, and the satisfaction of her subjects. It was notorious—without wishing to prefer any charge whatever against the Duchy of Cornwall—that its rights and privileges had been very greatly encroached upon in former times, and that the Duchy, for the recovery of its just claims, was compelled to institute prosecutions in a way which was considered a grievance. The consequence was, that a state of warfare existed between it and almost every individual landholder in that part of the country. The engines which were brought to bear in conducting this system of strife and contention, were very properly described by the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard, and in point of fact, the whole state of things at the present moment in that district had a doubtful, uncertain, and let him add, an aggressive aspect. He did not think the honour of the Queen was consulted when she was asked to reap a harvest of litigation in what was wrung from her subjects by the process of law, and converted to the purpose of augmenting her revenues. He knew it would be
 1143 1144 l. l. l.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the hon. Members for Southwark, Liskeard, and Kilkenny seemed to have forgotten one main point of the question—namely, that this was a bargain. Now, supposing that any proprietor having property in different counties consented to surrender property situated in one or more of those counties, upon certain understood or agreed upon conditions, must it follow that that proprietor was to be called upon to surrender the remaining property, which was not included in the agreement at all? The Crown had surrendered a certain portion of its hereditary revenues on certain conditions. Those hereditary revenues which it still enjoyed were admitted to be its private property; and was it common sense or common justice to place the Crown, in respect to its private property, in a condition in which they would not consent to place any other proprietor in the land? Would they attempt to act in this way with respect to the property of the Duke of Devonshire or any other great proprietor? The Chancellor of the Exchequer had endeavoured to conciliate the hon. Member for Southwark; but that Hon. Member was too acute, and well knew that he would not agree in what he
 1151
 Sir R. Peel  asked if the two plans could not be combined of reducing the postage and using stamped covers?
 Mr. Clay  inquired if, in making the experiment in the metropolis/it was intended that the stamped covers should be sold for twopence?
 Viscount Sandon  rose to order. The Chair had expressed an opinion that this was a subject which, under existing circumstances, could not be entertained consistently with the orders of the House; and he had not heard any objections stated against that opinion. He conceived that the hon. and learned Member was incompetent to go on with the discussion of this question.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose for the purpose of making a few observations on the Bill before the House. Whatever objection he might have to the Bill in its present form, it did not arise from the provision made for her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent; but the point he had in view, and which he was anxious to impress on the House, was, that in all money Bills especially, they should be extremely careful not to depart from the line of precedent which guarded the public against improper conduct either on the part of individual Members or on the part of the Government of the country. It was not merely matter of form, but was also matter of substance. The principle on which the House acted with respect to money grants was well known to be this, that no money grant could be made to the Crown until that grant had been considered in a Committee of the whole House. That was the first principle of all money grants, and it stood on a just ground, that there might be ah ample opportunity of previous discussion. The second principle, which was one immediately arising out of the first, was, that whenever bills should be brought in, there should be no power in that bill of augmenting the provision that had been previously made in the resolution, otherwise they would have the power of defeating the original [rule, which was to have the amplest discussion on the whole grant in a Committee of that House. If the House bore that in mind, and looked at the printed bill, they would see that the bill was a direct violation of the rules and orders of the House. The resolution the House passed on a previous evening was
 1191 l., l., l., l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer . The words are "Additional yearly sum."
 Mr. Goulburn  —Yes, that was stated: but those were not the terms in which the vote ought to have been made. The House would bear in mind the second principle he had laid down, namely, that there was to be no augmentation in the payment that was not stated in the previous vote. He was prepared to show that, even admitting the whole force of the word "additional," on which it appeared the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to insist, there was in this 30,000 l. l. l., 1192 Chancellor of the Exchequer: l. l. l. 1193 l. l. l. l. l. 1194
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that his right hon. Friend, in bringing the subject before the House, had done what was precisely his duty, and he personally thanked him for calling the attention of the House to it. Whether the right hon. Gentleman was correct in his reasoning, or in the inferences which he drew from the Act, undoubtedly the Bill on the table of the House ought to be conformable to its resolutions, and it was the duty of the House to see that the Bill introduced was precisely coincident with them. He wished to call to the recollection of the House that even if the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman were correct there had been no mystification on his part. He had assumed that her royal highness the Duchess of Kent had an income of 22,000 l., l. l.: l., 1195 l., l. l. l. l. l. 1196 1197
 Lord John Russell : Will the House allow me to say a few words before the right hon. Gentleman opposite addresses himself to this question? I would remark, that there are two different parts of the question; one is what belongs to the Duchess by law, and what is allowed her by this Bill; and the other which has been raised by the right hon. Gentleman opposite is, as to the forms of this House and the mode of proceeding which should be adopted in order to make this Bill conformable to precedents. As to the first question, I think my right hon. Friend's argument—confirmed as it is by the authorities which he stated—is fully sufficient to dispose of it. But with regard to the other question—of the Bill being conformable to the resolutions of the Committee—I think there may be considerable doubt upon it. And I shall be happy to hear the right hon. Gentleman opposite address himself to both parts of the question, for I agree that, in our present proceedings, it would be well to leave no doubt upon the subject, and that what we do should be in exact conformity to former precedents.
 Sir Edward Sugden  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that when the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, proposed the resolution for 8,000 l., l., 1198 l. l. l. l., l. l. 1199 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 1200 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1201
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was extremely glad of the proposal made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and without going further he would say the course laid down by him would relieve the House from the danger of misapprehension in a matter of such importance. He would, therefore, adopt the course suggested by the right hon. Gentleman, and move that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, in order to pass a resolution which would be in conformity with its rules. If the right hon. Gentleman saw no objection, he would, in order to give effect to his suggestion, fix the Committee on the Bill for a future day.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved, "That the several annuities granted to her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, in pursuance of several acts of the fifty-eighth year of King George the 3rd, the sixth year of King George the 4th, and the first and second year of his late Majesty, King William the 4th, shall cease and determine at such time as may be fixed by any Act to be passed in the present Session of Parliament; and that, in lieu thereof, her Majesty be empowered to grant, out of the consolidated fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, a clear yearly sum of 22,000 l. l., l.
 Mr. Aglionby  only rose for the purpose of stating that the greatest interest was felt in his part of the country on this subject. He had received many letters, urging that the attention of the House ought to be called to it, and he hoped, ere long the House would take the matter up, and see that justice was done.
 Mr. Baines  begged to confirm what his hon. Friend, the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) had stated, as to the strong impression that existed in the country on this subject. It had been stated that cruel injustice had been done to the negro apprentices, and it would become a matter of serious consideration how far the subject should be brought before Parliament. Though he could not entirely concur in all the proceedings the Government had taken (who undoubtedly were entitled to the credit of having removed the stigma of negro slavery), and doubted the propriety of coming to the decision of asking for a termination of the negro apprenticeship on the 1st of August next, yet he thought that the apprentices were entitled to the best consideration of Parliament, and that no information ought to be withheld from the House that would satisfy the minds of hon. Members. After the enormous sum that had been paid for the liberation of the negroes they ought to see that that part of the contract which belonged
 1185
 Mr. Baines : I do not understand what my hon. Friend means.
 Mr. Baines  waited to see if the matter would be undertaken by some person of more weight and influence in the House than himself. If no other hon. Member did he would take up the subject. He thought that justice should be done as well to the planter as to the negro. He did not wish to traduce the one without establishing the charges he had brought against him, nor did he wish that the other should be oppressed without showing him that Parliament was disposed to support and maintain his right.
 Mr. Baines  wished to ask his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, what proportion of the money voted for the liberation of the slaves had been already distributed; and, whether any inquiry had been instituted as to the conduct of the masters towards their apprentices, and if it should be found that they had been treated with cruelty, whether it was the intention of Government to withhold the remainder of that sum?
 Mr. J. Fielden  said, he should be the last person to throw any impediment in the way of making a suitable provision for her Majesty, but he felt it to be his duty to oppose this grant. What was the condition of the people of this country? In Ireland they found no less than 2,300,000 souls who subsisted during a great part of the year by begging. He said, that if her Majesty had been well informed of these facts, she would not have accepted this amount for the civil list. Then let the House look to Scotland and Ireland. The workmen who had supplied the most splendid articles to ornament the rich, and who had furnished the most beautiful fabrics worn at the late lord mayor's dinner, were in the most pitiable plight. When he came up to London, in the year 1833, he called the attention of the House to this subject, and petitions, which had been subsequently presented by him, confirmed the statements which he had made. He had stated that many of these poor men, who were weavers, had no other means of subsistence from day to day. Since that period, three Committees in that House had proved all the allegations which he had made to be literally correct. The wages of the hand-loom weavers had been reduced in their amount. This had been stated in the petition from Manchester, and these petitioners declared that they were ready to prove the assertions which they made before the commissioners who were about to inquire into their case. He had heard a clergyman, too, in his evidence before the Poor-law Committee, declare that the labourers in his neighbourhood were reduced to living on bread
 1190
 Mr. Hume  wished to take that opportunity of making some observations relative to those made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, respecting a statement he had made last night. Though he might differ from almost every Member of the House in opinion they ought not to differ in facts. He observed that in the report of what took place last night it was alleged, in answer to what he stated, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said so and so, while what he (Mr. Hume) did state was kept out of view altogether. Now, what he did state was, that his object was not to continue in the amount of the civil list the expenses of the two departments of the Lord Chamberlain of the household and the Lord Steward, at the same time observing that he did not wish to affect the amount for the privy purse of 60,000 l. 1187 l. l. l., l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. 1188 l. l., l. l., l. l. 1189 l.
 Mr. Hume : Then I will tell my hon. Friend, the Member for Leeds, what I mean. It is alleged that the acts of the planters towards the negro apprentices are such, that the only way of relieving the latter from the oppression of the former is by making the apprenticeship, which was not to terminate till 1840, terminate in August, 1838. Now, if my hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, or if any other hon. Member, is cognizant of any individual act of cruelty, if he really believes in the truth of the statements so directly impugning the conduct of the planters to their apprentices, it is his bounden duty to bring them under the notice of the House. He
 1186
 Mr. Hume  thought, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Leeds, was bound both in justice to the public who had paid, and in justice to the planters who had received, so large a sum of money by way of compensation, to bring forward in a specific shape the charges which he had just made against the good faith and humanity of the planters. Why not bring them at once under the notice of Parliament? He saw from a report which had appeared in the public journals, that a short time since there had been held in London a public meeting on this subject, which was attended by no less than nine Members of Parliament. Why had none of them brought before the House the cruelties which were at that meeting alleged to have been perpetrated by the masters upon their apprentices? If they did not like to come forward themselves, let them place their papers in his hands, and he would bring the whole subject under the notice of the House. That was the right and proper course to pursue; and it was neither just nor proper for hon. Members to be constantly making charges against the planters which the planters were not present to meet, and for which their defamers produced no proofs.
 Mr. Hume  said, that some statement should have been laid before the House with respect to the amount of the money paid.
 Mr. Hume  wished the Chancellor of the Exchequer to explain what was the purport of that clause.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that the Slave Compensation Fund was provided for partly in money and partly in stock. Before the Bill passed certain claims were paid in money; but there was now a surplus of stock and a deficiency of money; this clause was to allow stock to be sold out.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that, under the provisions of the Slave Compensation Act, no accounts could be laid before the House without an order from the Committee, countersigned by the Secretary of State.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the question which the hon. Gentleman had put to him was, whether they could withhold, or had withhold, any part of the money? His answer was, they had no power of withholding it. By law it belonged to the parties to whom it was adjudicated; and no less authority than an Act of Parliament could take it away from those individuals.
 Colonel Perceval  felt it his duty to appeal to the justice of the House. By the Grenville Act he contended the day terminated at twelve o'clock, and as the recognizances had not been perfected at that hour, he conceived the Speaker was
 1276
 Mr. H. Hinde  must deny the law to be as the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney-General) had laid it down. The votes in that House made a clear distinction between the business done previous to twelve o'clock and that done afterwards. The business taken after twelve o'clock was entered, not only in the votes, but in the journals of the House, under a separate date.
 Mr. Aglionby  could not think, as at present advised, that the House had any power to enlarge the time. He wished that some learned Friend could convince him that he was mistaken in his construction of the Act. What he felt a doubt upon was that the application for the enlargement of the time ought to be made before the expiration of the fourteen days. He
 1279
 Mr. Wm. Meryweather Turner , of Over-bury-court, was examined at the bar, and stated in substance, that he is a barrister-at-law, and the petitioning candidate against the late return for Dudley. He gave in the name of his brother, Mr. Montague John Meryweather, as one of his securities in the recognizance. His brother had, some years ago, obtained the King's licence to assume the name of Turner in addition to that of Meryweather, under the directions of a will under which he took a beneficial interest, but he had never known him to use the name of Turner, except in some proceedings in Chancery, to which he was a party. He was generally known as Captain Meryweather, and witness said, that if he gave the name of Turner, his brother would not be known to the officers of the House. He, therefore, gave the name by which his brother was generally known, but that name was refused by the examiner, because
 1219
 Sir T. Fremantle  did not see how the extension of the time could cure the error for which the examiners had refused to complete the recognizance.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that the hon. Member took a very different view of this from that which his Friends at that (the Opposition) side of the House took the other evening, when a case somewhat similar came before them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, the object sought for would be obtained by the enlargement of the time, as then the petitioner would have time to put in the real name, which was all that was asked, and which, assuming the security to be good, he thought ought not to be refused.
 Sir R. Peel  would oppose the motion, as the legal name had not been given, which, in his opinion, was in direct opposition to the law on the subject. He thought the House would establish a bud precedent by acceding to the motion, and hon. Members could not be sufficiently guarded in deciding on matters of this nature, and it would be highly indiscreet to supersede that provision of law which had been acted upon for a series of years, by establishing a precedent likely to tend to the encouragement of fraud. It would, in his opinion, be highly satisfactory to the House to have the opinion of the chair on the subject.
 The Speaker  said, it was his opinion, although he was aware many hon. Gentlemen would differ from him, that in cases similar to the present, the rules of the House should be strictly adhered to. The rigid observance of those rules would, he thought, tend materially to insure justice.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that on Friday night there was a long debate on a case similar to the present. A person named Procter was rejected by the examiners, and he thought on good grounds, as that person had described himself as residing at South-bank, Regent's-park, and did not state that he was a tradesman in Exeter-street, Strand. On that occasion, the House granted time for the parties to amend the description. He did not think the present case one by which the House
 1220
 Sir H. Hardinge  perfectly coincided in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman in the chair. He thought the House should take upon itself an equitable jurisdiction, hut adhere to the strict rule; and, although he had voted for the indulgence on Friday night, owing to the remarks of the noble Lord, the Member for Devon, on the validity of the securities, yet, under existing circumstances, he should be prepared to vote for the rescinding of the decision the House had come to on that occasion.
 Viscount Howick  said, that if the House did not exercise its discretion, in many instances great injustice would result. It was of considerable importance that election petitions should not be invalidated by mere technical errors. Care should be taken that the law should be adhered to, and that the sureties were valid; but where an accidental error presented itself, in his opinion, the House ought to grant indulgence.
 Mr. Aglionby  rose to call the attention of the House to the petition of Mr. James Coppock, relative to the recognizances in the Pontefract Election Petition. He had been asked by the petitioner to present it to the House, though, if the hon. Member for Buckingham had been present, it would have been better for him to have done so, as he was more acquainted with the circumstances of the case. It was, however, immaterial, as either way it would, he was sure, receive the same consideration. In presenting this petition to rescind the order of the House made on Friday night, he did not intend to impugn the decision of the House on that order, nor say that it was made without a proper inquiry into the case. He would now give, as he was bound both in justice to the petitioner and to himself for having
 1221 rectus in cicriâ l.; 1222 bonâ fide 1223
 Mr. Coppock  stated that he was a solicitor, residing in Cleveland-row, Westminster; that he had acted as agent for Mr. Stanley, the sitting Member for Pontefract, since the petition had been presented against his return; that there was only one petition, which was from Henry Gompertz, who stated himself to have been a candidate; that on Saturday morning last, having heard that the time for entering into the recognizances had been enlarged, he went to the usual office, and saw that Mr. James Florance was the agent of Mr. Gompertz; that the notice of sureties was signed by him; that he then wrote to Mr. Florance on the subject, requesting to know whether Mr. Moss was concerned in the business, and received an answer from him, stating that he (Mr. Florance) was the sole agent, and had become agent at the request of Mr. Moss. Procter, when offering himself as surety for the Canterbury election petition, had described himself as a bootmaker, whereas in the Pontefract case he described himself as a gentleman.
 Mr. Moss  called to the bar. He stated, that he was agent for the Pontefract election petition, but that he had allowed James Florance to put in his name as agent, because Florance had superintended a portion of his business, and he (the witness) did not wish his own name to appear as agent, because he had taken a prominent part at the Pontefract election. Witness added, that Florance had no interest in the matter  pro con.
 Mr. Aglionby  (to the witness).—You, then, are the sole agent, and Florance is only the apparent agent?—Yes. Do you not consider that a fraud?—No; I was present when the sureties were put in.— Did you not state on Friday that you yourself put in the sureties?—I was present when the sureties were put in. 1224
 Mr. Aglionby  (to the witness).—When did you apply to Mr. Gompertz?—About a week before the Pontefract election.— Where did you apply to him?—Where he now is. Were you aware that Mr. Gompertz was in confinement for debts amounting to 16,000 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, in one case Procter was stated to be a bootmaker, and in the other as a gentleman residing in a villa in the Regent's-park. In either case there did not appear to be anything improper; and there certainly was not a  primâ facie 1225
 Mr. Aglionby  said, if the question simply was in regard to Mr. Procter being designated as a bootmaker in the one case and a gentleman in the other, he would allow that the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) was right. But that was not the whole question, and unless he was allowed to enter into other circumstances connected with the proceedings he should be unable to show whether there was any fraud intended or not. It appeared to him important to ascertain whether Mr. Gompertz, being a prisoner in the Queen's Bench, could really be a bond fide candidate or not, as he considered it highly improper that persons who could not in reality be candidates should give vexatious opposition to those who were  bonâ fide
 Mr. C. Buller  said, when he went to dinner he had left the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) arguing in favour of a strict application of the rule laid down by the House in regard to sureties, and now that he had come back from dinner he found the same right hon. Gentleman arguing for a lenient application of the rule. He did not understand this change, and the only difference he could see was, that the question the former case related to Dudley, and the present had reference to Pontefract, and the right hon. Baronet might be more inclined to favour a Tory candidate than another. In his opinion there did appear sufficient grounds for believing this to be the case of wilful mistake for the purpose of deceiving parties, and investigation ought therefore to take place.
 Sir R. Peel  would first state in explanation, that he thought the judgment of Philip sober better than that of Philip
 1226
 Lord J. Russell  thought it right not to enter into questions relating to the character of, and the proceedings at, the election. These were not proper questions for the House to entertain. If, however, it could be proved that in the two designations there was any intention to mislead, he thought there would be a fair case for rescinding the order which had formerly been made.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that it had been his intention to show circumstances of fraud, but he had been prevented from doing so by constant interruptions. If it was the wish of the House, he would give the matter up for a night; and as such seemed to be the desire of those in his vicinity, he would beg leave to move that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow, in order that Benbow and Procter might be brought before the House.
 Sir George Sinclair  rose to call the attention of the House to the situation in which it stood with respect to the Pensions' List Committee. Looking at the time which had been occupied, he would not say wasted, in the discussion of that evening, and seeing that the subjects which stood upon the paper were most of them of a description to lead to debate, it appeared to him not only improbable that the question of how the Committee was to be constituted could come forward at the usual hour that evening, but highly improbable, also, that it could be brought forward at a reasonable hour on any evening previous to the recess. But, however that might be, it appeared to him that it would be only fair that the House should be put in possession of the names which her Majesty's Ministers proposed to place
 1227
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not know to what practical conclusion the hon. Baronet's observations tended. He had told the hon. Baronet on a former occasion, and he had also repeated it again that night, that there was no intention on the part of the Government to bring on the question, which, as they were informed, was to become the matter of a debate at a late or inconvenient hour. If it were brought forward at any period that might be inconvenient to the hon. Baronet, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should be the first person to say "Let it be postponed to some future time that might be more convenient." At the same time he
 1228
 Mr. Harvey  observed, that the notice of the hon. Member for Kilkenny appeared to be a perfect godsend to the Government. There was, in fact, no straw, however filthy or however small, at which they would not catch to save themselves from this inquiry. What the hon. Baronet wished to know was, whether this important motion was to be submitted to the House at a correct and appropriate time. "As regards myself," continued the hon. Gentleman, "remembering my declaration of the other evening, a declaration which subsequent reflection induces me to repeat, I relieve the right hon. Gentleman from any pressure as to placing me upon the Committee. After the treatment to which I have been exposed, I repeat, that nothing under heaven shall induce me to serve upon a
 1229
 Sir George Sinclair : Under these circumstances I shall certainly move as an amendment to the motion now before the House, that the order of the day for the appointment of the Pension List Committee be now read; and upon that amendment I will take the sense of the House.
 Mr. Warburton  entreated the Government to state at once the names they proposed to place upon the Committee. They must have fully considered the names they intended to propose. Then why not mention them at once, and put an end to all further doubt and anxiety upon the subject? They were bound in common justice to the hon. Member for Southwark not longer to allow the question to remain in suspense, leaving his name to be bandied about by the public, as it would naturally be, as long as it remained a matter of doubt whether he were to sit upon the Committee or not. It really was not dealing fairly with an individual Member of the House to allow him to be treated in this manner.
 Lord John Russell : I admit that the hon. Member for Southwark is placed in a situation that cannot but be disagreeable in consequence of the questions that have
 1230
 Sir George Sinclair : That will not correspond with my views upon the subject; I shall take the sense of the House upon the amendment I have moved.
 Lord John Russell : Then I must proceed at once to state the grounds upon which we propose to act with regard to the hon. Member for Southwark. Last year the hon. Member was placed upon the Committee which sat upon the Report of the Poor-laws. The Committee found that all their proceedings were reported in the daily newspapers, generally fully reported; sometimes only in portions, consisting of extracts and selected passages; but in one shape or the other, whether at full length or only in part, the publication of their proceedings was continued from day to day. This, as the House must know, was in direct contravention of the directions placed upon all the papers delivered to Members of Committees— "that it is particularly requested that these papers may not be communicated to any other persons, being intended solely for the use of the Committee." The subject of the publication of their proceedings was brought under the notice of the Committee, and your authority, Sir, was mentioned as conclusive that no Member of the Committee ought to disregard or to commit a breach of the order attached to the papers placed in his hand. The hon. Member for Southwark, as I understand, did not deny that the publication complained of originated with him. I then thought it necessary, in order that the hon. Member might have no room for doubt, to bring forward a question in this House as to the right of Members of Committees to make publications of the proceedings that took place before them; and the
 1231 1232 1233
 Mr. Hall  regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Southwark was not to be on the Committee—he having devoted considerable time and labour to the investigation of the pension list, and that in opposition to the different Governments of the day. This subject had now been brought forward for five or six years, and those who were the most deeply interested in it would not consider that full justice was intended to be done if the name of the hon. and learned Member for Southwark were omitted. There were two parties interested in the question—the public and the pensioners. Among the latter was a nobleman, a relative of whom had told him that the wish of that noble Lord was to have the subject fully and fairly investigated, and that he should not consider the subject satisfactorily inquired into unless the hon. and learned Member for Southwark were on the Committee. He was quite sure that 'if that hon. and learned Gentleman were not nominated the object of his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would at once be defeated. In taking the appointment of the Committee out of the hands of the hon. and learned Member; his right hon. Friend stated that he was anxious to take the whole responsibility of it upon himself. He thought it was desirable that the Government should stand in that responsible situation; but he also was of opinion that at the time his right hon. Friend took upon himself that responsibility, he ought to have stated that it was not the intention of the Government to place the name of the hon. and learned Member on the list. Certain documents having appeared in a public print, he felt justified in adverting to them. They consisted of a letter addressed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, and of that hon. and learned
 1234 sine qua non 1235
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said: I have a choice between two difficulties— one is the interruption of the progress of the Civil List Bill, by the motion introduced by the hon. Member for Caithness to suspend the third reading of the Bill, when undoubtedly at the present period of the year it could not be suspended but at very considerable inconvenience. If, indeed, we were now on the motion for the third reading of that Bill there might be some reason for taking this question of pensions first, but my hon. Friend the Member for the city of London has given a notice on the third reading of the Civil list Bill which will give rise to a debate; therefore, to postpone that third reading beyond to-morrow night may amount to an undefined and inconvenient postponement. I have said that I am perfectly ready to abide the pleasure of the House upon the decision of to-morrow night. Nobody can expect that this Committee should sit before the holidays. If the house should decide that the names to be proposed should be printed before voted upon, I should be perfectly ready to give in the names. Nay, I should be perfectly ready to give in those names tonight I understood from Gentlemen on all sides that what they were desirous of was, the being in the possession of the names twenty-four hours before the Com-
 1236
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then said: Now that the order of the day has been read I will proceed to the duty of naming the Committee. I hope that the gentlemen who cheer are not among the Gentlemen that are prepared to support the hon. Member for Kilkenny to-morrow; because if that motion, namely that every Member intending to propose the names of Members to serve in a select Committee shall, on the day next before such nomination of Members, place among the notices for the day the names of the Members intended to be proposed as Members of the said Committee— if, I say, that motion be founded in reason, there would be nothing so unjust as for me to be compelled to take the House now by surprise, when I have proposed to give the House full information of the names, that they may be compared to those of a former Committee, in order that hon. Members might ascertain whether they were the names that ought to be put on this Committee or not. The notice given by the hon. Member for Caithness (Sir George Sinclair) embraced two objects— one the inserting the name of the hon.
 1237 1238 "Mr. Spring Rice presents his compliments to Mr. Harvey, and is led to trouble him with the present communication, in consequence of the motion for appointing a Committee on pensions, which Mr. Spring Rice intends to bring on. "From the interest which Mr. Haryey has taken in this subject, and the attention which he has paid to it, Mr. Harvey's name would naturally occur to any person selecting the Members of that Committee. But Mr. Spring Rice trusts Mr. Harvey will excuse him if, before he makes such a proposition to the House, he solicits information from Mr. Harvey on a question most essential to the future proceedings of that Committee, if it shall be named by the House. "In the Committee on the Poor-laws, appointed last Session, Mr. Harvey communicated to the public, from day to day, the evidence and the proceedings of the Committee, even before they were reported to the House. Mr. Spring Rice does not raise the question, whether such a course was, in that instance, Parliamentary or convenient; but it is evident that where the private affairs, character, and service of individuals maybe made matters of deliberation and inquiry, that pub-
 1239 "Mr. Spring Rice fully anticipates that Mr. Harvey will concur in these opinions, from his observations respecting the duty of such a Committee, and the mode and spirit in which its inquiries should be directed. But, to avoid any difference of opinion or mistake hereafter, Mr. Spring Rice will be much indebted to Mr. Harvey if he will do him the favour of letting him know whether, if appointed a Member of the Committee, he adopts, and will assist the Committee in adhering to the principles laid down in this note. "Downing-street, Thursday evening." 1240 "Strand, Friday Morning. "Sir—Regarding, as I do, the right of publishing the proceedings before Parliamentary Committees to be of the greatest public importance, I cannot consent to place its exercise in abeyance, as the condition of being placed upon a Committee. I readily acknowledge that circumstances may arise which would render such publication not only undesirable, but extremely unjust towards individuals; but I must claim the unfettered exercise of my own judgment in all cases; and which, I may be allowed to remark, is not likely, I trust, to be in a direction less just or considerate than that of persons equally disinterested as myself. "D. W. HARVEY." "That according to the undoubted privileges of this House, and from the due protection of the public interest, the evidence taken by any Select Committee of this House, and the documents presented to such Committee, and which have not been reported to the House, ought not to be published by any Member of such Committee, or by any other person." 1241 1242 Hear, hear. 1243 1244
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that it was open to any hon. Member to move that the Committee should be increased beyond the usual number.
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that the arguments which had been used for the exclusion of the hon. Gentleman appeared to him very like those which would be urged if it were the desire of the Government that there should be no inquiry at all. After listening with the utmost attention to the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman, and the Member for Southwark, he must say, that in his estimation, that hon. Member was perfectly justified in not giving the assurance required. Without taking into consideration the question, as to what was the law of Parliament upon this subject, he would simply say, that the moment the hon. Member for Southwark infringed that law, the House should visit him with its censure. Let it be stated by the Chairman of the Committee that the hon. and learned Gentleman was infringing any resolution of the House or decision of the Committee, and such conduct would meet with condign punishment. It was really a very hard case,, that such a stipulation as that which was demanded by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, should be required from the hon. Member, and yet asked of no other Member of that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman owed it to himself and to his character as a Member of Parliament not to accept of any appointment by the right hon. Gentleman to any other Committee, if this appointment were refused. There were circumstances with which the hon. Member for Southwark had been previously concerned, which must make it peculiarly
 1245
 Mr. Maclean  seconded the motion. The arguments used by the Chancellor of the Exchequer were such that, if they were acceded to, they would stamp upon that House a character unpleasant to possess, and most difficult to efface. The same might also be said of those of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. The argument of the noble Lord was, that on former occasions the hon. Member for Southwark had transgressed the rules of the House; and the confession of the noble Lord which followed that argument gave him considerable pain, because in it the noble Lord admitted that, sooner than bring the hon. Member for Southwark to the bar of the House for a violation of its privilege, the Committee alluded to permitted him to carry his point—that is, give publicity to its proceedings from day to day. The noble Lord had excused that course by saying, that a reference to history would show that many men had made the reputation of martyrs by prosecution for resistance to the privileges of that House; but what need was there to fear such a result in the case of the hon. Member for Southwark? If such a consummation were undesirable, why did not the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer come down, and ask the
 1246 ex parte 1247
 Viscount Ebrington  agreed in the opinion that for the sake of information the name of the hon. Member for Southwark ought to be added, but whilst he agreed in this opinion, he must, at the same time, say, that he thought that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had afforded to the House the fullest justification for not putting the hon. and learned Member on the Committee. The hon. and learned Member for Oxford, and other hon. Gentlemen had said, put the learned Gentleman upon the Committee, and then if he violate any privilege, give to him the most condign punishment; but what would have been said if his right hon. Friend had pursued such a course? Would it not have been urged, "You put me upon the Committee knowing my opinions, knowing that I retained those opinions, and with an experience of how I should act, and you have not acted fairly by now taking exception to the consequences of my opinions?" Would it not have been said that the Government had acted with treachery by putting the hon. and learned Gentleman on the Committee, and thus inducing him to commit the offence which it knew well he would commit, and by then bringing him to the bar. Would not such a course have been considered most mean, and would there not have been the strongest grounds for complaint. They had been told, that the House had a high duty to discharge to itself; but it had also a duty to perform to individuals. He had voted for an inquiry, which he intended to be most full and searching; but at the same time he was anxious that no unnecessary aggravation should be given to the pain inflicted on individuals, and that no unnecessary disclosures should take place; and he thought that the publication of  ex parte 1248 ex parte
 Lord Castlereagh  would never give a factious vote in that House, and he was least of all disposed to do so on the present occasion. The House had consented to the inquiry into the pension list, and to that inquiry the hon. and learned Member for Southwark could bring more information than almost any other Member, and he (Lord Castlereagh) could not understand on what grounds it was that the noble Lord refused to admit his name. He saw no objection to the fullest inquiry into all the pensions. He feared no ill consequences from the most ample investigation, and he had opposed the original motion only from a principle of justice, that the House ought not to rip up old stories. Was it the searching eye of the hon. and learned Member that the Government feared—did they dread his influence? He (Lord Castlereagh) would ask them to let the public have the benefit of the powerful, and searching, and acute mind of the hon. and learned Member, and he for one thought that the hon. Gentleman would do as much credit to the Committee, and bring as large a supply of facts before them, as any hon. Gentleman whom he saw on the benches opposite.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if hon. Members acted on the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it would amount to a general proscription of the hon. and learned Member, not from that Committee alone, but from every Select Committee. Any hon. Member might ask the same question as to any other inquiry which any hon. Gentleman might institute, or the House might approve. It might be asked, "Do you intend, if you are placed on the Committee, to use the means which this may afford you, of publishing the proceedings in a newspaper." And the same answer being given as in this case, the hon. and learned Gentleman would, as a matter of course, be excluded. Without meaning to cast any reflection on the Government, he certainly thought that the course which had been pursued was precisely the course which he should have himself taken if he had wished entirely to exclude the hon. Gentleman from the Committee. Its inevitable effect
 1249 Hear, hear. 1250
 Sir Robert Peel  would shortly state the grounds on which he should give his vote upon the present question. He need not repeat what he had before stated, that he entirely dissented from the course taken by her Majesty's Government in consenting to the nomination of this Committee; he still thought that the inquiry was most unjust, and that if it had been entered upon at all—if the responsible advisers of the Crown at the termination of the arrangements theretofore existing, caused by the demise of his late Majesty, had advised an inquiry—it ought to have been undertaken by the Crown itself, for he was convinced that the Government ought to take all the responsibility devolving upon them. It would have been infinitely better that the Government should have performed this duty, if duty they conceived it to be; but if, as the noble Lord had stated at the beginning of the Session, the responsible advisers of the Crown were not disposed to originate an inquiry, he did think that it was their duty to have resisted it. Either of these courses would have been infinitely better for the dignity and prerogative of the Crown; and even if they had not been able to have offered an effectual resistance to inquiry by a Committee, he thought that they ought to have allowed it to have been the act of the House of Commons itself; and that it ought not to have been adopted by that House on the advice of her Majesty's Ministers. He entertained such strong objections upon principle to the course which had been adopted, that he had himself declined to act upon the Committee; and though on other occasions, even after he had entertained doubts upon the propriety
 1251 1252 1253
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that the right hon. Gentleman objected to the appointment of the hon. Member for Southwark on account of the speeches he had made with regard to the pension list. Now he might be objected to also; for that hon. Gentleman had not stated a single opinion upon this subject in which he did not most fully concur; and that hon. Gentleman had even made concessions with regard to the subject which he would not be inclined to make.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that if the name of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Kilkenny were proposed to be placed on the same Committee he should have resisted it. At present, however, the objection was merely to the nomination of the hon. Member for Southwark. He objected, however, to undertake any responsibility in the nomination of the Committee. He had said his objection to the nomination of the hon. Member for Southwark rested upon the principle upon which he sought to have the inquiry conducted. That hon. Gentleman had expressed a strong opinion as to applying the same rules which were adopted under the Poor-law to the persons whose names were on the pension list, and while doing
 1254
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  did not consider that the right hon. Gentleman had made out a sufficient case to justify him in opposing the appointment of the hon. Member for Southwark on the Committee. The tone and manner of an hon. Member in addressing that House could never, in his opinion, be a sufficiently strong reason for excluding him from a Committee. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in excluding the hon. Member for Southwark from the Committee was guilty of an usurpation of power, and an infringement of the privileges of the people; for he deprived a Member of one of the most important duties that his constituents sent him to discharge.
 Viscount Howick  observed, that it had been remarked by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in excluding the hon. Member for Southwark, had been guilty of an usurpation of power and an infringement of the privileges of the people, by excluding that Member from one of the most important duties which his constituents sent him to discharge. His answer to such a charge was, that her Majesty's Ministers did not wish to deprive the hon. Member of the power of discharging any one of those duties. It rested with the hon. Member for Southwark, and it rested only with the hon. Member himself, to say whether he was or was not a proper person to be placed upon a Committee, and especially in such a case as this. What were the circumstances under which they were called upon to make a decision? The House had determined, and in his opinion they had determined most properly, that evidence until reported to that House by the Select Committee appointed to receive it should not be published by any Member of that Committee, or by any other person. It was not, as the hon. and learned Mem-
 1255 1256 1257
 Viscount Castlereagh  considered, that at the end of the noble Lord's observations, an unwarrantable allusion had been made to him. He assured the noble Lord, that he did not come down to that House with a prepared speech. He hoped the noble Lord could say the same thing. The noble Lord was incorrect in another
 1258
 Viscount Howick  remarked, that the noble Lord's explanation left the matter considerably more obscure than it had been before.
 Mr. Wakley  had listened with very great attention to the debate, and he confessed was not a little puzzled to discover the proper conclusion which he ought to draw from the observations that had been made. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had informed the House, that at the very outset the name of the hon. Member for Southwark suggested itself as the first that should be placed on the Committee; then the right hon. Gentleman observed, that the hon. Gentleman had made a speech which would induce him to be adverse to his nomination; and then the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, had informed the House, that her Majesty's Government considered that from the expressions used by the hon. Gentleman, it would be in the highest degree inexpedient to have such a person on the Committee. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, acknowledged very frankly that the line of examination likely to be adopted by the hon. Member for Southwark, would render it impossible
 1259 1260
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer  said, that having served on Committees of that House with the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, he could state that he had always known the hon. and learned Gentleman to have sincerely and conscientiously discharged his duty. He had always said, Unit the hon. and learned Member for Southwark was an ill-used and injured man. Before, however, he approached the subject under the consideration of the House he must state that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), began his speech with the most extraordinary misstatement possible. That hon. Member had put into the mouth of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the sentiments which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tarn-worth. His right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had not uttered a single sentence respecting the opinions of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Southwark, upon the analogy he had drawn between the Poor-laws and pensions. The hon. Member for Finsbury had also misstated the sentiments of the noble Lord, the Member for Northumberland. That noble Lord (Lord Howick), did not say that there was anything in the sentiments of the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, which should preclude him from serving on this Committee; but he did say, that there was something in his (Mr. Harvey's) sentiments which ought to make them feel doubly the responsibility of entrusting the hon. and learned Member with discretionary power. He
 1261 The True San, ex parte 1262
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that if the hon. and learned Member for Southwark had been asked to give a pledge, and had refused it, he thought that his exclusion from the Committee would be proper. But he would like to know, whether the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had gone to the other twenty-one Members of the Committee and put to them questions such as he had put to the hon. and learned Member for Southwark? He would support the motion of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Caithness, because in doing so he was vindicating the right of the House to maintain their own resolutions, and to punish those who dared to violate them.
 Mr. Aglionby  regretted to be compelled on this occasion to differ from the course taken by the Government. He thought that the course Government was taking would be unpopular, and deservedly unpopular, in the country. There were two grounds, of a personal and general nature, on which the hon. and learned Member for Southwark was excluded from the
 1263
 Sir A. Dalrymple  rose amidst loud cries for Mr. Harvey. The hon. Baronet was understood to say, that he would follow the course chalked out by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that before he proceeded to make a few remarks on the subject matter of discussion, he could not forego the pleasure of offering the thanks of a grateful and generous heart to his hon. Friend, the Member for Lincoln, and also to the hon. Baronet, the Member for Caithness, for his noble, and manly, and kind-hearted expressions of opinion arising from a long and disinterested attention to the investigation in which he had been so deeply interested; he could not help also stating his hope and belief, as he was not one of those who disconnected the destinies of man with higher justice, that the time was not remote when men, forgetting the low and grovelling conflicts of party, would not be the less inclined to believe him because it had been his misfortune to have suffered one of the most severe, the most relentless courses of persecution that had ever been inflicted by an irresponsible despotism. Having said thus much, he would come to the question. He could
 1264 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269 1270 1271
 The Chancellor of the Excheqaer  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had intimated that there was no great danger of his entering into any competition with him on the score of sarcasm. Unfortunately there was none. Nor was there any danger either of his entering into competition with him on the score of misrepresentation, because misrepresentation was never more complete than was that which he had endeavoured to palm on the House in reference to what had fallen from him. Many hon. Gentlemen who had heard the hon. and learned Member's speech would imagine that he had presumed, by reason of his official situation, to put him in fetters, or to curtail the free exercise of his Parliamentary privileges. He denied that such was the fact. As he had already stated to the hon. Member, the very reverse was the fact. His application to him was not to be considered an official application at all; but in moving the Committee he had addressed him in precisely the same way as he should have addressed him had he been a private Member of Parliament. Did he ask him to comply with any fancy of his, or to give up any fancy of his own? What he had
 1272 The True Sun, 1273
 Mr. C. Buller  felt annoyed at having to bring forward more cases respecting election petition recognizances—but there was one consolation which the House had, and that was, that this was the last day for making such applications. In the case of two Irish petitions, it appeared that a mistake had been made in the recognizances. The same agent was concerned in both cases, and he had committed the same mistake in the recognizances of both. The error, however, did not amount to more than a clerical error, and it consisted in the name of the surety being inserted where the name of the petitioner ought to have stood. This mistake rendered the recognizances nonsense, because it would appear that the surety, and not the petitioner, was the party bound to prosecute the petition. In courts of law there was no doubt but that such an error would be corrected; and he submitted that that House had the power of correcting such an error. He could not apply, however, to have the mistake remedied, because he knew the recognizances could not be altered, and, therefore, he moved that the parties should have further time to enter into the recognizances in the case of the Sligo petition.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that there was no neglect in this case, as happened in the Ipswich case, for as soon as the objection became known the petition was presented. The hon. Member for Cavan seemed to mistake the object of his (Mr. Buller's) motion. He did not mean to ask the House to pass any resolution about the validity of the recognizances, he only asked them to enlarge the time. A great deal had been said about the strictness of the law, but the same law gave them the power to extend the time for entering into the recognizances, and if they were to be precluded from exercising that power what was the use of possessing it at all? The hon. Member here referred to the words of the Act of Parliament, which provide that where the recognizances shall not have been entered into within fourteen days the Speaker shall report the same to the House, and the order for taking the petition into consideration shall be discharged forthwith, unless on special cause shown or unless matters shall be specially stated, on oath, as shall give the House reason to see that the time ought to be enlarged. Now, it would be competent for him, when the Speaker announced that the recognizances had not been properly entered into, and when it should he moved that the order be discharged, to get up and move that the order should not be discharged until witnesses had first been called to the bar to prove certain facts that would enable him to show to the House a sufficient case for the exercise of this indulgence. According to the opinions of the Attorney and Solicitor-General, the recognizances were good, but it was held by others that they were bad. Now, he did not want a decision on this point' all he asked was, that the House should enlarge the time.
 Mr. C. Buller  would adopt the suggestion, and take the discussion on the report of the Speaker. It seemed that his mistake was that he had applied not too late but too soon. He would move that the petition be printed with the votes.
 The Speaker  was understood to say that, although the debate might continue after twelve o'clock, the clay closed at that hour in point of law.
 Mr. Borthwick  wished to know whether the day terminated at twelve o'clock, or whether the sitting of the House, after that hour, had the effect of prolonging the day? If the day terminated at twelve o'clock, it was clear that this application came too late.
 Mr. Courtenay  said, that accustomed as he was to courts of law he had never heard worse law than had that night been propounded by the Solicitor-General. There was no person conversant with the practice of Quarter Sessions who did not know that whatever form an Act of Parliament directs must be followed. The hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of the fraction of a day, but there was no tyro at the bar who did not know that there was no such thing known to the law as the fraction of a day. As a constitutional lawyer, he was surprised at the doctrine that had been put forward that they might dispense with an Act of Parliament. Why, what were the charges against the Stuarts, or against the Long Parliament, but this, that one part of the Legislature
 1278
 Mr. Godson  said, that the question which they were called on to decide was one of very great importance, and was whether a Parliamentary day differed from the legal day. He was, he must say, surprised at what he had heard from his hon. and learned Friends. According to their view, if that House were to sit till seven o'clock in the morning the Parliamentary day would endure seven hours after midnight, but he must say that no lawyer, that no man of common sense in the country, would agree with the construction which they had put on this Act. Suppose that these recognizances were now to be received, and that the petition turned out to be "frivolous and vexatious," what would be the consequence? Why, that when they were attempted to be enforced the parties would snap their fingers and laugh at them, denying their validity, because they had not been perfected within the period of fourteen days limited by the Act.
 Mr. Maule  said, that the Act of Parliament, which regulated their proceedings, ought to be so construed as to enable substantial justice to be effected. He would not engage in the discusion of the difficult question whether they should call the present time to-day or to-morrow. He would suggest to the hon. Member for Liskeard to take the question upon the motion that the order for taking the petition into consideration be discharged.
 The Attorney-General  said, that now was the time, or never, for making the application. They had not as yet entered on the Parliamentary to-morrow, and therefore, although it was undoubtedly past twelve o'clock, he conceived the motion to be quite in time. The error was nothing more than a mistake in the name of the surety, and the effect of it was to render it obligatory on the surety, instead of the petitioners, to prosecute the petition. There really was no difficulty in the matter with respect to time, because it was well known that for many purposes the year was sometimes less and sometimes more than 365 days. This was the case in corporations, where the mayor, being elected for a year, continued in office until his successor was appointed. The object of the Legislature was, that there should be an opportunity of perfecting the recognizances, and hence it followed that the day was considered as subsisting until that House adjourned. It was well known by those at all acquainted with the business of quarter sessions, that matters of form, even provided by Acts of Parliament, were often departed from, for the purposes of justice, and, as in the present case, the recognizances would be void unless the error were corrected, he did think that, even in point of law, the application was in time, having been made before the adjournment of the House.
 The Solicitor-General  could not concur with his hon. and learned Friend (the Attorney-General), that the recognizances were void because of this mistake. The
 1277
 Sir T. Fremantle  must once again call on the House to adhere to the strict rule. The Act of Parliament was express, that the recognizances should be perfected within fourteen days, and no one, he thought, could deny that, in point of law, the duration of a day was from twelve o'clock to twelve o'clock.
 John Phillips Bevan  deposed that he was applied to by Mr. Benbow, a very old friend of his, to become one of the sureties to an election petition. Was not told what petition. Mr. Benbow said he would rather not tell him, but would feel obliged if he would promise to become a surety. Met him a few days after close to the house, and agreed to become a surety Gave his own name and that of Procter
 1334
 By Mr. E. J. Stanley .—Never saw Mr. Gompertz till this evening. Knows nothing of him.
 William Procter  deposed, that he was a bootmaker, and the person described as one of the sureties residing at Southbank, Regent's-park; had resided there for the last nine years. The house was his own property. Possessed property also in Worcestershire; it is a freehold. Had a house also in the Strand, but he only rented it.— His name was Procter, not Proctor; was a surety in the Canterbury as well as Pontefract case; had received a letter from Mr. Bevan, requesting him to become surety in the case of an election petition to the amount of 500 l.
 Mr. Jervis  said, the question before the House was this—Was Mr. Procter's name inserted as a surety with the intention of committing a fraud?
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the party had been challenged upon two grounds—pecuniary incompetency, or fraud. It might be either, or it might be both. There was, certainly, no evidence to prove the former; and, as regarded inadequate description, he did not think it possible to attribute fraud. The witness had a house in the Strand, where it was known (as elicited from the witness by the hon. Member himself) that he had a private house in the Regent's-park; and there it was known that he was a bootmaker, and had a house in the Strand, in which he carried on that trade. He (Mr. Harvey) did not think either ground had been proved.
 Sir H. Hardinge  did not think there could be the slightest doubt of Mr. Procter's competency as a surety. At all events, the House were now in a situation to close the evidence and come to a decision on the case.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, he was at a loss to decide whether this case partook more of the ridiculous or the indecent. He thought
 1335
 Sir R. Inglis  contended, if the House desired to maintain its character for dignity, consistency, and justice, they could not rescind their decision of Friday, no facts having since appeared in evidence to vary the original character of the case. He did not see how it was possible to impute fraud in consequence of the variations in the addition or address of the surety. Much had been said of late with regard to the unsatisfactory character of the proceedings in election committees. For his own part, he could not help thinking the proceedings of the House within the last three days had strongly impressed his mind with the conviction that that assembly was a very imperfect tribunal in such matters as the present, where all were advocates, parties, jurymen, judges, acting under constant stimulus, and without any controlling authority to lay down the law. He did not think their proceedings at all calculated to elevate the character of the House in the estimation of the country.
 Mr. Hume  wished at this stage to place upon the votes the amendment that he had moved in Committee. As, in accordance with the present mode in which the proceedings in Committee were conducted, it was impossible for the public to know what was proposed in them, he was now obliged to move his amendment. It was, that instead of 385,000 l. l.
 Mr. Grote  spoke as follows: Sir, I propose to move the entire removal of the sum allotted to pensions from the Civil List. There are several reasons which lead me to think that the House ought not to suffer any such item to continue.
 1280 1281 l. l. l. 1282 l. 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 1288 1289 1290 1291 1292 l., l. l. 1293 1294 1295 1296 1297 l. 1298
 Mr. Hume  rose to second the motion, As his hon. Friend had completely exhausted all the arguments that could be adduced on this subject, he would only say that his opinion was strengthened more and more every day, from the working of the pension system, that no pension whatever ought to be granted to any individual out of the public funds. He hoped that the time was coming when this principle would be acted upon. The reason why he was anxious to second the motion was, that he did not consider the continuance of the pension fund consistent with the report of the Committee of last Session. The very word "pension" was rendered odious from the abuses that had crept into the system. And such was the general feeling throughout the country, that he did not think that this grant of 1,200 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no reason to complain of the mode in which the hon. Member for the City of London had introduced this subject, on the contrary, the calm tone in which the hon. Gentleman had treated it, was to him perfectly satisfactory. But having done justice to the mode in which the hon. Gentleman had introduced the subject, the hon. Gentleman would excuse him if he took the liberty of saying that he differed essentially from some of the principles laid down by the hon. Gentleman, and he would also show that the hon. Gentleman was in error in some of his facts. He admitted that the latter objection was not that which was most material, inasmuch as the hon. Gentleman had rested his chief argument upon principle, but whether a refer-
 1299 l. l. l, l. l., l., l. maximum l., l. l. 1300 1301 1302 "Hear, hear!" Wakley. 1303 1304
 Sir R. Peel  should vote against the motion of the hon. Member, because he conceived its object to be to deprive the Crown of the power which it at present possessed of rewarding merit and honourable personal distinction. At the same time he would not say that the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was altogether satisfactory. The first objection which he entertained to the right hon. Gentleman's proposal was, that the sum of 1,200 l. l. l, 1305 l. l. l. 1306 l. 1307 l. 1308 argumentum ad pecuniam
 Mr. Clay  should vote for the hon. Member for London's proposition, because he thought that on the authority of the Committee on the civil list, at the commencement of the last reign, the pension list ought to be separated entirely from the civil list of the Crown, and because he thought that the proposition for granting 1,200 l. 1309 a priori, 1310 l.
 Sir R. Inglis  differed from the hon. Member who introduced, as well as from the hon. Gentleman who on very distinct grounds had just spoken in favour of, the amendment. He could not concur in the opinion that the sum which the Crown now received for this purpose, could be found too large, though he was quite willing to join with him in the conjecture that it might be too small. The first words which he had heard from the hon. Member for London, as he entered the House, were grounded on the proposition that as the Crown was, according to the popular maxim, considered the fountain of honour, that House should also be viewed as the fountain of special pecuniary reward. His right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with great consistency in argument, but very inconsistently in conduct, asked the hon. Member for London this question: — "If we concede to the House of Commons the privilege which you require, with what colour afterwards can we deny that it must also be looked upon as the fountain of honour?" He understood the hon. Member for London to assent to that conclusion. [Mr.  Grote: 1311 l. l. l. 1312
 Mr. Charles Buller  said, he felt bound to take a part, though he did so reluctantly, from an indisposition to trespass on the attention of the House in this discussion, because he was compelled to vote against those with whom he was in the habit of acting, and he wished to convince them that it was from no unwor by motive that he at present opposed them; but that his opinions, however erroneous, were taken up with sincerity, and were the subject of much reflection. He wished in the first place to state, that of all those who had spoken on this question, he most agreed, indeed, he might say that he almost entirely concurred with the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. He did not think there was any great force in the special argument used by his hon. Friend, the Member for London, and it struck him that the views of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Clay) were contrary to the general principles which influenced his vote. He admitted, that if the amount of pensions had not been reduced to a large extent, the argument would be, that hey should be stultifying their own vote for inquiry if they resolved to grant the same, or almost an equal amount as that now submitted to the Committee. If the labours of the Committee led to any important results, it was probable that some portion of these pensions would be found to be misapplied, and that a reduction to that extent ought to be made. But when he heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which had not been rebutted or even touched upon by any hon. Member who had spoken, that the enormous reduction had been effected in the amount of pensions from 75,000 l. l., l. 1313 l. l. l. l. 1314 1315 1316 1317
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  begged to correct an error into which the hon. Member for Liskeard had fallen as to the circumstances of Mrs. Somerville. Her husband was physician of Chelsea Hospital and if he were to die, his wife would be left without a farthing.
 Mr. F. Baring  had followed the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard through his admirable and ingenious comments on this subject, and he could not help thinking that the manner in which the hon. and and learned Gentleman had canvassed the peculiar merits of particular individuals, would tend to illustrate what might be the course of argument and discussion if the House were to grant these pensions and not the Crown. The hon. Gentleman, though not intending to be offensive must have felt that the allusions made to Dr. Wallace and Mrs. Somerville were objectionable. Perhaps he might be allowed to give some explanation of two of the cases which had been mentioned He meant only to justify the course which the Government pursued, and not to dwell on individual merits. Dr. Wallace was refused a pension because, when an application on his behalf was made, there was no vacancy on the list; and he was very much misinformed if that Gentleman had not received out of the pecuniary means of the Crown the same amount as he would have received had there been an opportunity for giving him a pension. With regard to Mr. Coleridge, he was placed on the list of pensions granted by George the Fourth to literary men. At the death of George the Fourth these allowances dropped, and were not renewed in the succeeding reign, but the recipients were continued on the pension list for the amount which they had previously received, when vacancies oc-
 1318 l. The London Gazette,
 Mr. Hawes  was anxious to state why he differed from his hon. Friend the Member or the City of London, and to state why be should pursue the same course in the House as he had pursued in the Committee. He fully agreed in the sentiments expressed by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. In his view of his hon. Friend's motion, it did not raise the principle whether pensions ought to be granted by the Crown or not; for if it did he (Mr. Hawes) should certainly give it is support; but all that he did was, to say that the annual sum of 1,200 l.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that great injustice had been done to his hon. Friend the Member for the city of London by the manner in which this question had been treated. It had been argued as if there were no other means of paying these pensions except by the present grant. It had been forgotten that besides the privy purse of 60,000 l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to move an amendment. It had been argued in the Committee that the pensions should be regulated by a fixed annual sum, and not by a varying amount up to 75,000 l. l, l. 1322 l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to effect the purpose intended by the hon. Baronet by adding the provisor to the Bill.
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not thus give way and yield to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, for if there were no meritorious individuals worthy of receiving in any year grants to the amount of 1,200 l.,
 Mr. Wakley  was surprised to hear his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny use the word yield. The Chancellor of the Exchequer certainly had not yielded to the right hon. Baronet; the most perfect harmony existed on both sides of the House upon this question. He must confess that he with other hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House were most awkwardly situated —they ought, undoubtedly, to move to the other (the Opposition) side of the House;; and if the right hon. Baronet, with his train of friends, knew their proper places, they would remove to the seats of those Gentlemen, who were really the opposition party, but had unfortunately been reduced by divisions sometimes to nineteen, sometimes to twenty, and had scarcely gone beyond twenty-one or twenty-two. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer meant to change the present wording of his own Bill he would lose all appearance of wishing to save the public money; he seemed afraid that the whole would not be expended; and so if for ten years no demand were made upon this fund, all the accumulation might be expended at once, so that not one farthing would be saved to the public. The question was, whether 1,200 l. l. 1323
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the question was not one of great importance; but supported the omission of the proviso. The hon. Member for Finsbury had done her Majesty's Government the honour of paying them a very high compliment. For he had said that whatever might be their propositions, they were sure to have the confidence of the House. He certainly felt this to be so high a compliment, that he scarcely knew how to find terms in which suitably to acknowledge it.
 Mr. Leader  contended for retaining the proviso. The noble Lord had misapprehended the observation of the hon. Member for Finsbury, which related to the confidence of only a portion of the country. He must say, that if the two large parties in that House had been differently placed; if the Gentlemen on the other side of the House had been on the Treasury benches, and if the Gentlemen on the Treasury benches had been on the other side of the House, the former would not have come forward with this measure so indecently, or with so little desire to give sufficient time for its consideration as the latter had done. And, above all, he was sure, that if the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had made a similar proposition from the Treasury bench, the noble Lord
 1324
 Mr. T. Duncombe  opposed the striking out of the proviso. It would give rise to a number of jobs and to much corruption in the granting of the pensions. He had voted with the majority in favour of the Bill, in the hope that her Majesty's Government would stand by its integrity. But it now appeared that they were disposed to acquiesce in a proposition which proceeded from the Tory side of the House. He hoped, however, that the House would stand by the integrity of the Bill, and would thereby rescue the Government from that vacillation which was so prejudicial to the country. It had been said by an hon. Gentleman, that her Majesty's Ministers had not given satisfaction to the Radical portion of the House, and at the same time had alienated the affections of the opposite benches. This was the first time he had heard that her Majesty's present Ministers possessed the affections of the opposite benches.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the right hon. Member for Tamworth, if the House were not bound to adhere to the resolutions of the Committee on which the Bill was founded? Now, one of those resolutions declared that a provision should be made, enabling her Majesty to grant a sum "not exceeding in any one year 1,200 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would not take up the time of the House by entering into any discussion on the question then before the House. He would simply state, that the vote was in strict conformity with the recommendations of the Committee up stairs. The Government were anxious to reduce the sum annually charged for this service, and had already reduced it from 45,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  thought, the right, hon. Gentleman bound to tell them what the distinction was betwixt this sum of 10,000 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it would be perfectly obvious that the amount of 10,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that, as the Bill had been completed by the House, the question was whether the Bill do pass. As he had given his opposition to several of the items he would not now proceed further with his opposition to the Bill. At the same time, he would explain to the House the nature and extent of the civil list fixed upon the country for years to come. If his amendment had been carried they would have kept the civil list within what it was by 12,000 l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. l., l., 1329 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1330 s. Laughter.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not wish to introduce a debate, but merely to say a few words with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny. The hon. Member had complained of the expense of keeping up royal parks and gardens, but the people had a great interest in having them properly kept up. Who enjoyed St. James's Park, Hyde Park, and Kensington Gardens but the people of this great metropolis? It was they who had the benefit of them, and he would like to know whether the people would like to see them discontinued. The enjoyment of these parks was conducive to the health and good habits of the people. The hon. Member had remarked on the expensive liveries of the Court attendants, and had found fault with the liveries worn by her Majesty's Ministers; but let him follow up his own analogy, and go to one of the levees, and notice the costume worn by the representative of the United States, and he would find that, so far as costume was con-
 1331
 Mr. Wakley  was much disposed to blame the Ministers for extravagance, but he considered that the greater blame rested upon the Members of that House he had voted the immense sums granted by this Bill—granted by those who called themselves the representatives of the people. Considering the temptation thrown in the way of the Minister, it was to be wondered that the sums asked for had not been greater. The country would bear in mind that, when his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) proposed to reduce the grant by only 50,000 l.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that the House must feel deeply indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for the communication he had just made.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, there was a question which, upon the grounds of common humanity, he wished to put to the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department. He wished to be informed if the noble Lord had heard any thing of a statement published in the newspapers of an order having been signed by the Spanish minister of war by which the officers and men of the British Legion were compelled to embark for England. There was also published an order signed by Brigadier-General O'Connell, in command of the Legion, in which he stated, that in consequence of the orders of the Spanish authorities, the Legion was disembodied, and must lay down their arms. They had done so, and since then it appeared the Legion were in a state of great suffering and danger. Now, he (Sir H. Hardinge) wished to know from the noble Lord, whether any and what steps had been taken in order that these unfortunate men might be brought home to their own country.
 The Speaker  said, that a question had arisen upon the cases of the petitions from the county of Sligo and from the borough of Portarlington. In all those cases the objections were the same, and on those objections he considered that the recognizances entered into were not in conformity with the directions of the Act of Parliament. In stating thus much he felt bound to add, that it appeared to him that in the cases of Sligo, Carrickfergus, and Portarlington, the same party was concerned for the petitioners. That party came to his secretary and produced two recognizances; and on being looked at they were both found to be objectionable in precisely the same respect. His (the Speaker's) secretary stated to the party that he conceived the recognizances could not be held to be sufficient, upon which the party appearing drew from his pocket other recognizances,
 1332
 Viscount Palmerston  replied, that he had been informed, but not officially, that in consequence of some difference between Brigadier-General O'Connell, commanding the Legion, and General O'Donnell, the Spanish General commanding at St. Sebastian, the infantry of the Legion had given up their arms, and were no longer soldiers in the Spanish service. If that were so, of course they must be brought home, and he could assure the right hon. and gallant Officer opposite, that no time should be lost in taking steps to bring them home to this country.
 Mr. Matthias Attwood  considered that the subject of the Corn-laws had been improperly introduced into this discussion. He believed that the Corn-laws were not the cause of the distress which prevailed among the manufacturing classes, and therefore that the repeal of those laws would not relieve that distress. On the contrary, he thought the repeal would be attended with a greater weight of suffering than such a measure was calculated to remove. He knew how reluctant the House was, to entertain questions of this kind, and how very difficult it was, for any hon. Member to bring any question under the consideration" of the House which involved nothing of a personal or of a party nature. For this reason, therefore, he felt the more disposed to give his support to the motion of his hon. Friend. They had been told to wait for the Report of the Commissioners, but he conceived it was vain for them to wait for that. All the facts that were capable of being ascertained by the Commissioners were, already sufficiently well known. The right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade had spoken of the extensive reduction that had taken place in the taxation of the country. Now, upon that subject, he would refer the right hon. Gentleman to an authority which he was sure would
 1416
 Mr. Hindley  observed, that there seemed to be a general agreement on two points: the first was the existence of great distress, the second was the patience with which it was borne. He was persuaded that it was impossible to exaggerate the distress. He had himself paid considerable attention to the subject; and he firmly believed that the distress was to an extent of which the House was little aware. He thought, also, that they were all agreed on another point. He wished to argue the matter calmly and dispassionately. It appeared to him that they were agreed on the difficulty of finding a remedy for the evil. If such a remedy could be discovered he was persuaded that it would be most cheerfully adopted. The remedy proposed by the hon. Member for Oldham was a fixed rate of wages. To that he (Mr. Hindley) strongly objected. He had said, when an application was made to him in Manchester on the subject, that he could not acquiesce in any such proposition. The effect of a fixed rate of wages would be to prevent manufacturers in times of distress from giving them any work at all. The hand-loom weavers did not desire charity. All they desired was justice. If the Legislature could not benefit them, at least it should avoid doing them injury. It had been said that they ought to go into the factories. How was this practicable, when
 1410 1411
 Colonel Sibthorp  thought, that the agricultural interest paid more towards the taxation of the country, than any other class of the community. He deemed it necessary to make this observation in order that it might not go forth to the public, that those who represented that particular interest, were indifferent to the sufferings of any other class in the state.
 Colonel Sibthorp  complained of the conduct of the hon. Secretary for the Treasury towards him as regarded the amendment which he had given notice of on this Bill, and said, that he believed it to be the intention of her Majesty's Government to throw it altogether over. On that ground, though he had been requested by the "smooth device" of the hon. Secretary to postpone his amendment, for the convenience of the Government, he should not do so, as they would not promise him a day for its discussion. They deserved not the slightest indulgence at his hands, and they should not have it. He would do his duty. If the public were satisfied, so would he be.
 Colonel Sibthorp  came forward to propose his amendment. He said, that when the House of Commons was called on to grant a sum of 30,000 l 1419 l l l l 1420 l l l l l
 Colonel Sibthorp  assured the hon. Member that he did not apply the axiom to the Royal Personage alluded to, but to those who scratched her Majesty's Ministers, in hopes of getting something in return.
On the motion of  Mr. P. Thomson  the Order of the Day for the Committee on the Duchess of Kent's Annuity Bill was read.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  hoped that the hon. Member who had brought forward this motion had done so rather for the purpose of giving hon. Gentlemen an opportunity of
 1412 minimum 1413 1414
 Mr. Finch  asserted that instead of merely granting an increase of 8,000 l. l
 Mr. Darby  also trusted, that the hon. Member for Oldham would withdraw his motion; the fir t part of which appeared to him (Mr. Darby) to be totally inexpedient. It would be impossible to reduce the taxation in such a manner as to afford the hand-loom weavers the relief they required, without, at the same time, withdrawing the protection justly afforded to other classes of the community.
 Mr. George F. Young  differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He thought, that as a Commission had been issued, it was only proper, before any decided step was taken, that the House should wait for the report of that Commission. He, for one, therefore, could not support the present motion, a motion which he hoped the hon. Member for Oldham would see the propriety of withdrawing.
 Mr. Labouchere  could not refrain, after hearing the last observation of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Attwood), from troubling the House for a few moments. The hon. Gentleman had said, that he considered in voting for the motion, all that he was expressing was his opinion, first, that extensive distress prevailed among the hand-loom weavers, and next, that the House were desirous to discover a remedy for that distress. Now, this being the opinion of the hon. Gentleman as to the effect of the vote he was about to give, he felt it to be his duty to call the attention of the House to what was the nature of the question before them, and to show how very far beyond those two propositions stated by the hon. Gentleman, they would go if they voted for the present motion. He would first of all, however, remark, that the House during the last Session of Parliament, had given a strong proof how anxious they were to meet the distress complained of; for they actually adopted an address to the Crown that a Commission might be issued to inquire into the nature and extent of that distress. He begged to say, that in his judgment the House did not on that occasion take a prudent or well-advised step in pursuing that course; for he believed there was always the greatest danger when any one branch of the legislature took upon itself to investigate any particular and local case of distress, inasmuch as it gave rise to expectations which, in all probability would only result in disappointment. But he would now remind the House what were the terms in the concluding part of the motion before them. The motion stated, "that it was the duty of the representatives of the people in that House, immediately to devise and enact such laws as should either raise the wages of the distressed weavers sufficient to maintain them
 1417
 MR. J. Fielden  then rose to bring under the consideration of the House the petition which he had presented on the 11th December, relative to the condition of the Hand-loom Weavers. Amongst other facts stated in the petition it was set forth that the petitioners, owing to extremely low wages, suffered great distress, and that this distress had been more severe in the present than in any former year. In Manchester alone there were
 1404 1 s d s d s d d d 1405 minimum 1406 "That there is in this kingdom an immense body of hand-loom weavers suffering unparalleled distress, and that that distress arises from the present unforeseen low rate of wages that these weavers are paid for their work, and from the heavy taxes imposed by this House on food and the other necessaries of life, a sufficiency of which these wages are inadequate to procure; that the work which a large pro. portion of these weavers execute consists of articles indispensably necessary for the personal comfort and convenience of the higher and middle classes of society, or of articles exported to other countries in exchange for luxuries for the use of these classes; that it is, therefore, the interest and duty of the Representatives of the people in this House immediately to devise and enact such laws as shall raise the wages of the hand-loom weavers to a scale adequate to maintain them comfortably, or else so to reduce the taxes imposed on the necessaries of life, and to alter the modes of collecting those taxes, so that no part of the wages paid to these weavers shall be abstracted from them by either direct or indirect taxation, further than shall be necessary for the exigencies of the state."
 Mr. Hume  also expressed a hope, that the hon. Member would withdraw the motion. The distress which pressed so heavily upon the hand-loom weavers, arose from the high price of food in this country as compared with any other country in Europe. The Government had the remedy in their own hands, but were afraid to adopt it. Repeal the corn-laws, and there would be no distress amongst the weavers. But there was no hope of such a step being taken. The agricultural interest was too strong, had too great a preponderance in that House; and the noble Lord, the Home Secretary (Lord John Russell), had declared that he looked upon that preponderance as one that ought to exist. The words used by the noble Lord on an early evening in the Session, were to this effect, "He was aware, at the passing of the Reform Bill,
 1415
 Mr. Hesketh Fleetwood  seconded the motion. Seeing that the commission had issued some months, he did hope that the President of the Board of Trade would be enabled to make such a statement as would give to the hearts of the poor handloom weavers that comfort of which the smallness of the wages they at present received deprived them. During his canvass he had had an opportunity of seeing the distress which pervaded this class of persons. In the place which he had the honour to represent were found numerous families working for sixteen hours a day in damp places under ground. He had seen one poor woman giving her children bread in a hot stale; and on his asking her the reason, her answer was that she did so because a less quantity sufficed to satisfy the cravings of hunger for the time. He did not see, however, how an increase of wages could be effected by legislation; but at the same time, with regard to taxation, he thought that those who possessed property and who devised the means of
 1407
 Mr. Philip Howard  said, that unquestionably much of the distress was attributable to the introduction of machinery. But it must be considered, that the handloom weavers enjoyed greater liberty than the power-loom weavers, and could choose their own times of labour. He rose, however, to express his sympathy for the distress which they were suffering. At the same time he did not think that to repeal the corn-laws, and thereby to throw a great deal of land out of cultivation, would benefit the. Undoubtedly great differences of opinion existed; but in his judgment any material alteration of the corn laws would be productive of very general inconvenience. When the report of the Commission appointed to investigate this question came to be laid on the table, the House would be better able to come to a satisfactory decision upon it. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member for Oldham would, for the present, withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Wakley  could not concur in the concluding recommendation of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. It might very possibly happen that three or four years would elapse before the Commissioners made their report. In the meantime, according to the recommendation of the right hon. Gentleman, these people would be left to starve. The real object of the Commission should be to inquire into the remedy, not the cause, of the distress. The cause was well known. The remedy, though the House had not temerity enough to make the confession, could only be found in the repeal of the corn-laws, and the imposition of a tax upon property. The only relief for the poor was to take the burden of taxation from their shoulders, and to place it upon the shoulders of the rich.
 Sir C. B. Vere  said, that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Oldham had put his motion in such a form, as not to admit of those who wished to do justice to the poor hand-loom weavers, to give him their support. He would, therefore, advise the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his motion; and he hoped to see the question brought forward again in a manner that would not permit of its being put down.
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  observed, that
 1409
 Mr. Mark Phillips  assured the hon. Member for Oldham that the petition which he had brought under the notice of the House had not escaped his (Mr. Phillip's) attention. He was not in the House when the motion for an address to the Crown for the appointment of a Commission was agreed to, but he did not hesitate to say if he had been present (and his not being so was occasioned by severe indisposition), knowing what he did on this subject, that he should not have been found amongst the supporters of that proposition. He begged to say that the hon. Member for Oldham could not more deeply deplore and commiserate the unfortunate situation than he (Mr. P.) did himself, and, in order to put himself in the possession of facts, he had applied for and received statements from Manchester which differed materially with the allegations contained in the petition; and those facts he had obtained from those who employed the greatest number of operatives in that town. Manchester was divided into four districts, from one of which districts he had the report made by the overseers, by which it appeared that while in August last there were 275 families out of employ, on the 15th of the present month there were only seventy six. So far, therefore, there was a discrepancy between the statement contained in the petition and these returns. He admitted that great manufacturing distress among the hand-loom weavers prevailed throughout the country, and he knew, as stated by the petitioners, that in Manchester it prevailed to a greater extent than in former years; he knew that such was the fact; and why? it was in consequence of the stale of the American market; that was the cause of the distress. He, for one, should always be anxious to forward the views of the petitioners when he was satisfied that good could be done; but at the same time he must say he could not see any possible good that could result from the interference of the Legislature in order to maintain prices during a depression in trade. Supposing that a  minimum 1408 minimum
 Sir S. Whalley  felt some reluctance to the grant, and would most probably have supported the gallant Colonel's proposition but for the line of argument by which he supported it. He assured the hon. Gentleman that he was no party to the scratching system of which he spoke, and was quite surprised that a man of his gallantry should insinuate such motives where a lady was in the case.
 Lord John Russell : In rising, Sir, to move the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply, I do so for the purpose of giving the hon. Member for Westminster the opportunity of offering to the House any remarks that he may consider to be necessary or expedient to make with reference to the affairs of Canada. But lest the hon. Gentleman should be misled by the declaration of that intention which I made to this House, I wish to state to him, and to the House, what it is that is intended to be done with respect to the adjournment of this House. It was intended—I may say, we had hoped almost up to this day—that I should have been enabled to move the adjournment of the House to the 1st of February, with a view that Members might be relieved
 1429 1430 1431
 Lord J. Russell  said, he thought the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, could hardly have been in his place when he made the statement which he had originally communicated to the House. He would beg leave, therefore, to put the hon. Baronet and others in possession both of what he had stated, and what he considered the actual circumstances of the case. He had been about to move the adjournment of the House from to-morrow to the 1st of February. There was no complaint made to that, and the House was ready to leave the responsibility of the arrangement and administration of the affairs of Canada, as well as of the other parts of the empire to her Majesty's Government. In this state of things, he came forward to make a volunteer proposition, namely, that instead of adjourning to the 1st of February, the adjournment should be to the 16th of January; but he did not do so on the ground that the Government felt themselves unable to take measures fitting for immediate emergencies or that he thought it was absolutely necessary that Parliament should be assembled to enable the Government to take those steps which the maintenance of the honour and interests of the Crown required. What he did state was, that he thought, with uncertain intelligence published, and with other intelligence received combined, that it was not according to the Parliamentary constitution of the country to adjourn for five weeks without asking the concurrence of Parliament on that general course of policy which the Government might think fit to pursue. It was with that view that he proposed the adjournment he had last stated; if he had proposed to adjourn for a week he should have proposed that for which there was no immediate necessity, namely, the immediate assembly of the House, and he should likewise have run the risk of there not being that full attendance of Members which he thought necessary in order to take the opinion of the House with respect to Canadian affairs. He trusted that the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with this explanation, and that he would perceive that her Majesty's Ministers had no intention to shrink from the responsibility which attached to them, or to cast that responsibility upon Parliament from any apprehension which they entertained that they should pot be able of themselves to adopt measures
 1496 data, 1497 1498 1499 1500 1501
 Lord John Russell  replied, that the papers relative to Lower Canada, which would be presented to-morrow had occupied so such time in their preparation that he feared that all the papers relative to Upper Canada could not be laid on the table; they should, however, be furnished with as little delay as possible.
 Mr. C. Hindley  said, that if there were any one vote which he had given in that House with which he was better satisfied than another, it was on the noble Lord's resolutions regarding Canada. He thought that all must most earnestly desire that Government should take some conciliatory steps on this pressing question. He deprecated some of the expressions made use of by his hon. Friend, the Member for
 1494
 Mr. C. Lushington  appealed to the Chair whether such language as the hon. Baronet had used was proper for the House to hear?
 Mr. Charles Lushington  said, that although he did not intend, after what had fallen from the noble Lord, to enter at large into the affairs of Canada, he could not sit quietly by and hear such language as that which had been used by the hon. Member for Westminster without expressing his utmost indignation. The hon. Gentleman had described to the House scenes of bloodshed and of hatred among unhappy countrymen in a distant part of the world, and dwelt upon it with feelings of exultation, which to almost every Member of that Assembly must have been most unpleasant and cruel to their feelings. The hon. Member for Westminster had not expressed the slightest commiseration for the miseries which these occurrences had brought upon Canada; but had exulted at acts of treason, which he certainly did not expect from any hon. Member of that House. The hon. Member seemed to revel in the idea that the course of justice had been suspended, and that the law of a party of insurgents had been established in its stead. The hon. Member had hailed with feelings of pleasure and delight the pros-
 1446
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that however painful it was to him to rise for the purpose of again moving the amendment upon which he had last night taken the sense of the House, yet he could not hesitate performing that which he considered his duty under any circumstances. He would take that opportunity of deprecating the indecent degree of laughter with which his observations upon this subject were last night received by the members of her Majesty's Government—who must have supposed that he was acting with an undue regard to the feelings of that illustrious individual to
 1508 l. l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was obliged to the hon. Gentleman for affording him an opportunity not only of stating what the facts were with respect to the Bill in question, but also of stating the course he was about to follow, in order that it should go forth to the public, and in order that no claim might be set up by these parties for compensation, on the ground that they had not had sufficient warning. The present was one of the cases of which he had complained, not only last Session, but during the previous Session, as arising from the absence of any check in that House on the introduction of private bills. He trusted that the recommendation of the Select Committee, of which he (Mr. Poulett Thomson) had the honour to be the Chairman, would be carried into effect, and thereby protect the public interests, and prevent the recurrence of similar cases. He hoped the House would introduce such measures as would not only protect the public interests, but inflict punishment upon the parties introducing such bills. The facts were as. stated by the hon. Member for Tynemouth—a private bill had been introduced for making a harbour at Fishguard. It was evident, from
 1428
 Mr. Harvey  said, it had been understood that the House was to adjourn to the 1st of February. Now, however, they were informed by the noble Lord that they would be assembled again on the 16th of January. Were it not for what fell from the noble Lord towards the close of his speech, it would be difficult to see a reason for this. The noble Lord did not attempt to go into any explanation of the causes that induced him to propose a course so likely to excite alarm throughout the country. The impression abroad must necessarily be that the motive for calling Parliament together again so soon was to call for men and money. But they had been told that the proceedings going on in the colonies excited the just alarm and fears of the Government, and that instead of adjourning the House to the period originally proposed, they intended to limit the adjournment to a very short period. Her Majesty's Ministers had at length relieved them from the difficulty they were under, for it was clear they were to have war—to have war for that which the noble Lord had described as merely a philosophical and abstract opinion; and in answer to the advice of his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, the noble Lord, in the glowing conclusion, said that they were to have a war of opinion—that concession should not be made even upon matters of the nature he had stated, even if the inhabitants of all these colonies, even if the whole people of a country were unanimous in complaining of the existence of abuses. They demanded redress by the change in the form of the Government, as the best adapted mode of working out an end to the evils they were exposed to; but it was refused to them. The noble Lord endeavoured to convince the House that there were no practical grievances in Canada; but he would ask whether an instance could be suggested, in early or later history, where the great majority of a people had enlisted themselves in support of a mere abstract proposition, unconnected with any possible or immediate advantage to themselves? The great evil that had now been complained of by those who were anxious to effect great changes, involving important philosophical considerations, was the sluggish inclination of a people to enlist themselves in support of such opinions. Whenever a people manifested prominent resistance it must arise from some long existing and gene-
 1503 1504 1505
 Mr. Harvey  hoped the hon. Gentleman would give notice of any further amendments he might have to propose to this Bill, and not allow his proposition to be received by the House with ridicule. He was one of those who thought there was no reason whatever for the haste and hurry which had been evinced in passing this Bill—and who considered that this 30,000 l.
 Mr. Maclean  said, that although it might be distasteful to many hon. Members on both sides of the House that it should meet earlier than the 1st of February as originally proposed, still from the deep importance of this subject, a subject not very appropriately, he thought, offered to the consideration of the House this night, he was prepared to accede to the views of the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford, as conveyed in the suggestion he had made. He was of opinion that Parliament
 1489 1490 Oh, oh.' 1491 1492
 Mr. Grote , in the few observations which he should make upon the present crisis, did not intend to expose himself to anything like a charge of using expressions of triumph and exultation—expressions which had been most improperly and most unjustly applied by the hon. Member who spoke last, and by several other speakers on the other side of the House, to the hon. Gentlemen who sat behind him—his own feeling upon the subject was one of deep sadness and concern. If, indeed, there were in his bosom one lurking feeling of triumph, it rested solely upon the recollection that he was one of the very small minority who offered their most strenuous opposition to the fatal resolutions of the last Session, and which had given birth to all the present disasters in Canada. He would not have the responsibility of those resolutions upon his conscience, taking them in connexion with all the consequences to which they were destined to give birth, for anything that could be offered him. There was no part of his public conduct to which he looked back with such unqualified gratification, as to that in which he, united with a few
 1483 1484 1485
 Mr. George F. Young  said, it was melancholy and humiliating that British senators should have indulged in such language as he had that night heard, and that men holding their high station should have dwelt with calmness and pleasure on a picture the most revolting; and that they should have pointed the way by which the enemies of England might, most easily, assail their country,—that they should have shown how a colony in a state of insurrection could most easily triumph over the laws, and in what part their country was most vulnerable. The language he had that night heard reminded him of the advice which he had heard had been given to the people of Ireland, "Trust in God, but keep your powder dry;" for although loyalty and peace had been talked of, it had been shown how the Canadians might obtain the greatest success, when they came in contact with her Majesty's troops. He did not expect that those holding the high station occupied by the hon. Member for Westminster, and the hon. Baronet, the Member for Leeds, would have adopted such a course or have made use of such language, and he was
 1479 1480 1481 1482
 Mr. George F. Young  expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the course proposed to be pursued by Government.
 Mr. George F.
 1427  seeing the President of the Board of Trade in his place, wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman respecting a matter which was of very great interest to all who were connected with the shipping of the country. When the Bill for a harbour at Scarborough was brought in, the Government opposed it, and it was thrown out on account of its being proposed to levy under its authority tolls on passing shipping. But here was a Bill which had passed both Houses of Parliament, and was now in force, for the collection of passing tolls to ten times the amount, and in a manner one hundred times more objectionable. And the parties had had the effrontery to put forth in the public newspaper, advertisements inviting people to invest their capital in the speculation, holding out a prospect of dividends of fifteen per cent., in consequence of the extraordinary advantage the Legislature had conferred on them—the advantage of taxing her Majesty's subjects to an enormous amount for their own private interests. What he wished to ask was, whether it were the intention of her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the repeal of that most obnoxious impost, and thereby relieve the shipping interest from the most unjust and impolitic tax that ever had been imposed?
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if the present position of affairs in Canada was attributable to the conduct or misconduct of any particular party in Canada, he should have thought it desirable to have waited for the papers proposed to be laid on the table by the noble Lord; but considering the existing posture of affairs in that province to be the natural consequence of an infant colony opening into manhood, he did not see how the information which the papers contained could assist their discussion. The conduct which had been adopted by the British Government towards Canada he would not call criminal, but he would give it a name which generally implied what was worse than a political crime; he should call it a political blunder. An hon. Member had attempted to show that the conduct of the British Government in Canada had not been oppressive. That might be considered oppressive by a people on the other side of the Atlantic which would not be considered oppressive in this country. The conduct of Marshal Suchet in the Government of several provinces in Spain had been greatly admired out of that country. He had introduced into those provinces the greatest improvements; and his administration of power was infinitely superior to that of the preceding authorities. Yet the resistance of the people of those provinces to his measures was justifiable, for the changes were not in accordance with their wishes. We must not judge of the feelings and principles of the inhabitants of other countries by our own feelings and principles. How well was it said by Mr. Fox with reference to the Canadians, in the debate on the Quebec Bill, "Make them feel that their institutions may be advantageously compared with the republican institutions of neighbouring states." Who would tell him (Mr. Warburton), when during the last twelve years the table of the House had been covered with petitions from the Canadians complaining of their grievances, when Committee on Committee had been appointed to take those grievances into consideration, and when the justice which this country always professed its disposition to administer had been so tardy in its administration as not to be worth having—who would tell him that the Canadians had no cause for dissatis-
 1473 1474 l. 1475 1476 1477 "Who would not laugh if such a one there be Who would not weep if Atticus were he?" 1478
 Mr. John Ellis  impressed upon Ministers the necessity of withdrawing their consent from any lengthened adjournment. When he considered the nature of the sentiments which had been that night expressed, when he considered that the present debate would be a long way on its road to Canada before the three weeks would be up, and before any counteraction could be given to these sentiments, and when the House remembered that Lower Canada was on the very verge of insurrection, and that the flames of rebellion were ready to break forth there, he trusted that hon. Members would induce the noble Lord to fix an earlier day than the 16th of January for the re-assembling of Parliament. He must at the same time express his astonishment that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Westminster, so soon after the news of a collision between the British troops and the insurgents had reached England should come down to that House and deliver a speech, he would not say tainted, but at any rate completely pregnant, with gratulation, in which he did not even point out any means of effecting an amicable separation, but suggested means by which the colony might resist that connection with the mother country, which the majority of the English people were most anxious to keep up. He hoped that the debate would be resumed at an early period, and that the language then held would be more in accordance with the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord in his opening speech than had been uttered that evening.
 Mr. Leader  said, that he had been taxed
 1507
 Mr. Leader  said, that he did not accuse the Government of such a proceeding. He had only stated, that such was the opinion of the Canadian population.
 Mr. Leader  rose and spoke as follows: The noble Lord has told the House that he will lay all the papers connected with this subject before it, and the noble Lord went on to say, that he did not consider himself bound to enter further into this subject. The noble Lord will take that course which to him seems advisable; but the urgency and importance of the Canada question not only justify me in pressing the subject on the attention of the House, but render it an imperative duty on my part to call for a discussion of the question, in order to make the House and the country thoroughly aware of the present state of British North America, and to enable them not only to form an impartial judgment on the past and present conduct, and on the intentions, of the Government, but to decide for themselves what is now the best course to be taken for the interest alike of Canada and of Great Britain. The interests, the liberties, the very lives and
 1432 1433 1434 1435  The Vindicator, 1436 1437 The Chronicle 1438 1439 1440 The Chronicle "On Friday morning, (says The Montreal Herald, from which we gather most of our information), when about a mile from the village of Longueuil, the cavalry came up to a body of several hundred armed men, who were stationed behind a log fence, evidently prepared for their arrival, and apparently disposed to interrupt their further progress, and rescue the two prisoners. About sixty men of this multitude went upon their knees, so as to take a deadly aim, when Malo called out, 'Do not fire!' and the command was given to the cavalry to halt, which was, fortunately, promptly obeyed, as a considerable portion of the enemy's fire, given at the same moment, proved ineffectual, owing to their anticipating the continued advance of the troop. The cavalry then wheeled about and discharged their pistols amongst the crowd, and it is reported with some effect, as several were supposed to be killed or wounded. The little band of volunteers providentially escaped with but, comparatively speaking, slight injury,
 1441 "Rules for Reducing a Great Empire to a Small One, presented to a late Minister when he entered upon his Administration.—XVI. If you are told of discontents in your colonies, never believe that they are general, or that you have given occasion for them; therefore, do
 1442 1443 1444 1445
 Mr. Hume  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had expressed his indignation at the language used by his hon. Friend, but he thought it would have been better if the hon. Member had considered whether there was just cause for that indignation. He wished the hon. Member had directed a little attention to the causes of these things, and had not begun by attacking his hon. Friend for doing that which he considered to be his duty. The hon. Gentleman complained that his hon. Friend had not expressed any regret or commiseration at the existence of the present state of affairs in Canada. Why, so far from this being the case, his hon. Friend had commenced his speech by deploring his being obliged to bring forward at this time the statement of such occurrences. The hon. Gentleman next accused his hon. Friend of having exhibited feelings of delight at the suspension of the duties of the courts of law, and at the desertion of the troops to the insurgents. Let the hon. Member consider what were the duties which good citizens were called upon to perform, and ask himself whether any man could applaud on seeing soldiers called into the painful situation of supporting tyranny against their brother citizens; let the hon. Member inquire who had produced these evils. Was it the unoffending citizen? No, but the British Government, with all its unjust system of colonial agency, which had endeavoured to maintain principles utterly inconsistent and repulsive to the feelings of the people. The hon. Member might call the Canadians rebels if he pleased, but was there not as much virtue in resisting an illegal act as by upholding the principles and institutions of liberty? Did not the hon. Gentleman suppose that there was a limit to human suffering, and that there was a point when resistance became a virtue; and he asked the hon. Gentleman whether the Canadians had not arrived at that point? The hon. Member had not given a thought whether these unfortunate individuals would be driven
 1447 1448 1449 1450 1451 1452
 Mr. Hume : The hon. Baronet has liberty of speech, and when he thinks proper to express his sentiments upon this
 1468
 Mr. Hume  expressed a hope that the noble Lord would lay on the table the papers relative to Upper Canada and the other North American provinces, as well as Lower Canada.
 Mr. Borthwick  remarked, that the last recommendation of the hon. Member for Ashton differed most materially from the course suggested by the hon. Member for Westminster, when he expressed his cordial and hearty approbation to what amounted to all but open rebellion. He, however, thought that the hon. Member for Westminster did not speak the sentiments of the great body of the people, who were indisposed to enter upon a course of headlong revolution. He thought that the country would rather support the dignity of the Crown and maintain the present connection with the colonies. When the Canadians had laid down their arms, when they had returned to peaceful allegiance, then, and not till then, could they talk of the redress of grievances; then, and not till then, could they pay any regard to the suggestion for the peaceful separation of the colony from the mother country. The hon. Member for Bridport had stated his surprise at the course which the Whig party were now taking, and had referred to the opinions of Mr. Burke upon the American question; but he thought that if Mr. Burke were alive he would take the same course as had been pursued by her Majesty's Ministers, that he would assert the authority of the Crown and of the Parliament as the only means of restoring peace and tranquillity to this unhappy province. In conclusion he had only to contrast the wishes of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that the arms of Queen Victoria might be defeated in one of her own colonies, with the desire expressed by the same Gentlemen with regard to Spain: they had then declared that however unjust might be the cause in which they were employed, they hoped that the British arms might never experience defeat; but now, when the cause was just, and the scene was in one of our colonies, they expressed a wish that the same arms might be defeated, and that rebellion might be successful.
 Mr. Wakley  could not allow the debate to close without asking one question. The debate had now lasted six hours, and he would ask any hon. Member whether there was one single fact which had been communicated by the Government with which he was not before acquainted? Had Government no information to give? He wished to know whether on the 16th of January they would be equally uninformed or equally taciturn? This was not treating the House or the people of England with proper respect, whose blood and whose treasure would be poured out in support of the dreadful principle which seemed to be indicated by the speech of the noble Lord. If the noble Lord were to tranquillise that country to-morrow at the point of the bayonet, what species of tranquillity would he produce? A tranquillity under which there would undoubtedly be concealed a feeling of revenge, a feeling which would only thirst for an opportunity to satisfy itself. He would tell the noble Lord what he must already be aware of, that the time had come when intelligence was not to be controlled by that species of brute force which the authorities in this country seemed to be so desirous of employing. Even at the eleventh hour he implored her Majesty's Government to hold out to Canada the olive branch of peace. In doing so they would indeed evince more magnanimity of disposition than they could possibly lay claim to even if their present proceedings were covered with the glory of a conquest. He implored of them to acknowledge that they were in error, in resisting the wishes of the people—to tell the Canadians at once that the grievances of which they complained were just, and that they (the Government), expressing regret that such grievances should ever have existed, were ready and disposed to redress them. Inquiry had been made into the subject in 1828, but had the grievances then proved to have existed been redressed? On the contrary, it was notorious that they had not, but that they had remained unredressed up to the present hour. Hon. Gentlemen opposite asked how was it possible they could hold communion with a people who were in a state of rebellion? He would answer, that they should commune with them through the voice of rea-
 1506 The Times
 Mr. Gladstone , though he concurred in the opinion that they were discussing topics exceedingly vague, and that they had entered upon many particulars of a contradictory nature, which it would be necessary to investigate before they arrived
 1453 1454 1455 1456
 Sir C. Broke Vere  bore testimony to the great claims of Sir J. Colborne to that respect and esteem which he had acquired among his brother officers. He believed that the character of no officer in the
 1493
 Sir G. Grey  was surprised to learn, that the people of the colony were not aware that in that affair the French Canadians were the aggressors, and that they were driven out of the town by the indignant inhabitants. The British soldiery were called out, it was true; but for what purpose? To protect Mr. Papineau's property from those whose feelings had been excited by an unprovoked outrage. It was to the interference of the Government that Mr. Papineau owed the preservation of his property. Allusion had been made to the hostility which existed between the two races composing the Canadian population. That was a fact deeply to be deplored; but the Government had honestly and zealously applied themselves to remove
 1470 1471 1472
 Sir G. Grey , understanding that the hon. Baronet had concluded his speech, would take the liberty of addressing a few observations to the House. It was not his intention to enter upon a consideration of all the various topics which had been introduced into the discussion, and which he thought might well have been postponed till information respecting events in Canada should be before the House in an authentic shape. He was confident that that information would tend to correct some of the statements, or, as he might properly characterise them, gross misrepresentations of facts and of the real state of affairs existing in Canada which had been made to the House. The hon. Members for Kilkenny, Westminster, and Leeds, would all lead the House to suppose that there was a conflict between the British Government on the one hand, and the undivided people of an independent colony on the other. In the face of that House, and in the face of the country, he denied the truth of that statement. The hon. Members who had spoken seemed very carefully to have examined the Canadian papers, for the resolutions passed at public meetings by those of the inhabitants of those provinces who were in opposition to the British Government; but had they been equally careful of noticing the numerous meetings which had been held in different parts of the provinces, at which some of the most influential of the Canadians had recorded, in the strongest and most perspicuous manner, their sense of the value of the British Constitution, their decided attachment to the British constitution, and their firm determination to uphold by all means in their power the connexion existing between the two countries? Were not these hon. Members aware that a powerful and numerous minority denounced the measures which were taken by some leading persons of influence in the Colonial Assembly, as destructive to their interests, for the protection of which they relied on their connexion with this country? The fact was, that the. large class of which he spoke, having invested their capital in the colony, in dependence on the security which the connexion with the mother country afforded, dreaded the
 1469
 Captain Pechell  lamented the tone and manner in which that discussion had been carried on, and he must especially express his dissent from the observations of the hon. Baronet the Member for Leeds, relative to the probability that Nova Scotia and New Brunswick would be found making common cause with Canada, and to the desertion which was likely to take place from the ranks of the British army, in case of open hostilities. Nova Scotia and New Brunswick were in precisely the same situation now as was the province of Canada during the late war with the United States. Canada might then have easily joined those States, but had not so done; and the same reason which restrained the Canadians then would actuate the inhabitants of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick at the present day; and with respect to desertions, they all knew what inducements were held out in the American war, and how firmly all overtures had been resisted by the British soldiers. He anticipated, therefore, none of the evils from these sources which were dreaded by the hon. Baronet; and he hoped that whatever might be the ultimate extremity referred to in that discussion, Ministers would not agree to the advice of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Oxford, and would not consent to any proposition for a shorter adjournment; he thought that such a shortening of the vacation would be most unsatisfactory, and he trusted that the House and the country would rely on the good intent and discretion of her Majesty's Ministers.
 Sir Robert Inglis  observed, that from the appearance of the House, with its half-empty benches, and half-sleepy Members present, one would suppose that they were discussing some bill for the regulation of weights and measures, or something of an equally uninteresting character, rather than a rebellion in a colony which was one of the brightest jewels in the British Crown. The indifference was most striking, considering the magnitude and importance of the question. If the statements respecting Canada were correct, the Government ought not to delay the consideration of the subject a single moment; and instead of adjourning for a fortnight, they ought before the next twenty-four hours elapsed, attempt to bring it to something like a satisfactory settlement. A great colony was said to be on the eve of separation from us; therefore the Government had great and urgent duties to perform, and they ought not to suffer the House to separate unless they discharged all their responsibilities. He did not know whether it were his misfortune or his good fortune not to have heard all the speeches which had been made in the course of this debate, but he had heard the hon. Member for Westminster call on hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House to answer a sneer which he thought proper to address to them, as if they coveted an unjust war for the sake of crushing a free people. There was nothing in the conduct of the hon. Gentlemen with whom he (Sir R. Inglis) acted to justify the hon. Member in saying that they undervalued the horrors of war under any circumstances, or that they would advocate a cause which was unjust either in public or private, in war or in peace. He was perfectly certain that it would require eloquence and arguments far different from those of the hon. Member to convince the people of England that they were so. The hon. Member for Bridport, at a time when it was said that the cannons were roaring on the other side of the Atlantic, talked of an amicable settlement. Was this the time for an amicable settlement? Was it not rather a time for giving protection to those who were attached to the British Government? Not that he underrated an amicable settlement, or thought it utterly impossible; but he trusted that Canada would be reduced to that subjection which was desirable and necessary before any thing in the way of a settlement would be attempted. It was in Canada as in Ireland; in the one country
 1487 1488
 Sir William Molesworth  having intimated that he had concluded,
 Sir William Molesworth : The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had asked what grievances the people of Canada had to complain of, and inquired if they were not in their person and property secure. He thought, if the hon. Gentleman had listened to the debates of last Session, he would find that it was admitted even by the Treasury benches, that there were many just causes of complaint existing with respect to the condition of the Canadians. They complained, that the Legislative Council was adverse to the wishes of the people, and rejected measures of the utmost importance which had been passed by the House of Assembly; that improper persons had been appointed to the high and responsible office of judges. They complained, that the House of Commons had refused to alter the constitution of the Legislative Council, and had passed statutes injuriously interfering with the internal concerns of the province. They alleged, that in times past, through the negligence of the colonial authorities, the Receiver-General had been permitted to fail to a large amount; and that the monies of the province had been repeatedly taken without the consent of the House of Assembly. But the last, greatest, and most severe grievance of all had been inflicted by the resolutions of that House, passed that year, to empower the governor to seize the money of the Canadian people. He, for one, should ever rejoice that he was so fortunate as to oppose those fatal and wicked resolutions, which the noble Lord, unhappily for his future fame as a statesman, still more unhappily for his renown as a consistent supporter of liberal opinions, had submitted last Session to the consideration of the House of Commons, for which measures it
 1457 s. s. d. 1458 1459 1460 1461 1462 1463 1464 1465 1466 1467
 Lord John Russell  having moved, that the House, at its rising, should adjourn to Tuesday, the 16th day of January,
 Mr. F. Baring  was sure, that after the conversation that had passed, there would be no objection on the part of the Government to forward the wishes of the House; on the contrary, he could promise that
 1520
 Lord John Russell  opposed the bringing up of the clauses. One hundred thousand pounds had been granted to the Queen Dowager, and no condition was attached to the grant, either with regard to her residence in this country or in any other respect. As to the Duchess of Kent, he thought that it would be unbecoming to impose any such restrictions as those now proposed to the House. He begged to recal the attention of hon. Members to a few circumstances connected with her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent. When upon the death of her husband, and large debts had been incurred, it was to be remembered that her Royal Highness had the temptation before her—she who had been born and bred a foreigner—to go to another country and to reside there during the infancy of the Princess Victoria. The Duchess of Kent, however, preferred her duty to what might be considered her inclination, and determined upon bringing up her daughter here. In 1825, it was proposed by the Ministry of the day, to increase the grant to her Royal Highness—they did propose it, and to that proposal no condition was attached. If it were ever proper to propose such a condition that was the proper time for doing it, as the Duchess of Kent then had the care of her daughter, and the main object of the grant was to be applied for that purpose. Parliament showed its confidence in her Royal Highness; while, with respect to another royal person, Parliament imposed restrictions; but, doing this, they felt no disposition to impose restrictions upon her Royal Highness, and the confidence then reposed had been proved to be well deserved, and was fully sustained. Besides, as they were aware, the Duchess of Kent having the best preceptors for the Queen, he must mention this fact, which he did not know had been stated before, that when the present Queen was eleven years of age, not content with what she had done, the Duchess of Kent referred to the Archbishop of Canterbury, to the Bishop of London, and the Bishop of Lincoln, to
 1516
 Mr. A. White  said, that since he had been in the House he had suffered from cough to a very great degree. He hoped that the Secretary to the Treasury would not grudge a small sum of money in order to enable Members, without a serious sacrifice, to do their duty to their constituents.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that whilst they were upon the subject of the improvement of the House, he would suggest that a great improvement might be made in the mode of taking divisions. He would suggest that a second door should be made for the purpose of facilitating the taking of divisions. At present a division occupied a considerable time, as the Members who went out first necessarily came in last, and therefore all were desirous of being amongst the last to leave the House. If there were two doors, the Members might go out through one and return through the other; and as by this mode those who went out first would be the first to return, he thought that a great saving of time would be effected.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that as Chairman of the Committee under whose direction the plan of Dr. Reid had been adopted, he hoped he might be allowed to say a few words on the subject. He did not know that the hon. Member for Finsbury was
 1519
 Colonel Sibthorp  —Though he had heard the right hon. Baronet express his regret that the opposition to the Bill should come from that side of the House, he must tell that Right hon. Baronet that he might pursue what line of public conduct he thought proper, but at the same time the hon. Baronet must leave him the same liberty to pursue what line of conduct in public affairs he thought his duty prescribed. Though he sat on that side of the House he would not be bound to the politics of that side or any other. He could with perfect consistency oppose any measure which he did not like, come from what side of the House it might. The two hon. Baronets who had preceded him had said it was with pain they spoke upon the measure. It was with pain that he considered such an important subject had fallen to his hands as to oppose the nefarious doings of that Government which came in on the principles of economy and retrenchment. He had no doubt but there were debts, and it would have been much more honest and manly had the Government at once come forward and laid the state of the case before the House. Though he had been unsuccessful in his endeavours to reduce the allowance to 22,000 l., 1514
 Colonel Sibthorp  would content himself, then, with protesting against the Bill, and would move the clauses after the Bill had been read a third time. This grant was unnecessary and uncalled-for on every account. He (Colonel Sibthorp) could not forget what he owed to the public, and he would not buy favour from anyone by neglecting what he considered to be a public duty. He had only expressed his honest and undisguised opinions, and he saw no reason to retract one syllable of what he had uttered. But, with such a House as the present it appeared to him to be totally impossible to oppose the Bill. He should, no doubt, have to give an account of his conduct to the constituency he represented. [ " Hear,"
 Colonel Sibthorp  again rose, and proposed the following amendments:—
 "That it shall be lawful for her Majesty to give and grant by letters patent under the Great Seal of Great Britain to her Royal Highness Maria Louisa Victoria Duchess of Kent, for the term of her natural life, for the adequate provision for her said Royal Highness a certain annual payment or annuity of 22,000 l. l. 1515
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that he rose with great reluctance to address the House on this occasion; but the more any duty was
 1510 l. 1511 l. 1. l. l.  custos 1512 l.
 Mr. Warburton  concurred in every observation that was contained in the statement made by Dr. Arnott. In a matter that so deeply affected the health and the lives of the Members of that House, he thought that no delay whatever ought to take place in applying a remedy.
 The Speaker  —Those motions can only be made after the Bill has been read a third time.
 Mr. Briscoe , in supporting the Bill declared, in reply to the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, that it was his opinion that her Majesty's Ministers were entitled to the gratitude of the country.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that before the House separated he was anxious to draw their attention, and he would do so very briefly, to the state of the House with regard to its ventilation. He certainly admitted, that under the plan lately adopted and put in practice in the House, the atmosphere underwent more frequent changes than under the old system. There was more freshness in the air they respired, but still the new plan was attended with many disadvantages. The air was rendered so hot and dry by the process which it underwent before entering the House, that those Members who were subject to soreness of throat were kept in a state of constant irritation and suffering. He would indeed venture to say, that all those Members who attended closely to their duties suffered more or less from the defective state of the atmosphere in that House. He had himself, in the last Session, suffered severely, and as he felt symptoms of a return of that suffering, unless some better mode of ventilation were adopted, nothing would induce him to retain his seat, as he would not sacrifice his life for the benefit of any party. A gentleman of great scientific reputation had lately examined the place in company with him (Mr. Wakley) and, with the permission of the House, he would read the statement which that gentleman had drawn up as the result of his examination. The gentleman was Dr. Arnott, and the statement he drew up was as follows:
 "Memorandum of an Inspection made by me, this Day, the 22d of December, 1837, of the Arrangement for Ventilating and Warming the House of Commons. "In regard to ventilation, I found the great chimney-pump acting strongly, and able, with a small part of its power, to change the whole air in the House in half an hour or less. "In regard to heating, I found a collection of flat iron boxes filled with hot water, and sufficient, apparently, to warm as much air as can be required for abundant ventilation in a cold day. "But in regard to ventilation, I found the fresh air entering the House through numerous small openings in the floor, and then through a carpet, on which necessarily is deposited a
 1518 "And in regard to warming, I found that the air was merely heated, but not tempered by moisture. Now, atmospheric air everywhere on earth has naturally a quantity of moisture in it, bearing a certain proportion to its temperature, and which moisture is essential to the health of the organised beings living in it: and it is on this account that over the continent of Europe, where dwellings are generally warmed by close stoves, vessels of water are always placed on the stoves, to diffuse moisture. "The two defects mentioned account sufficiently for the dry throats, cough, feverish heat, &c., complained of by Members, and for the much dust found in their dress, and the little left to be swept away, as of old, from the floor. "The remedies are—1. To give moisture to the air in any of the usual ways, as by suspending in the heating-chamber a sufficient extent of cloth kept wet. 2. To admit the fresh air into the House through openings not in the floor, but above the floor, in the perpendicular surfaces around, and which openings shall be of sufficient amount to prevent the current through them being at all felt by persons sitting near them. These, or equivalent remedies, would, I am sure, have been suggested by Dr. Reid, the proposer of the present arrangements, had he, by being in London, had the opportunity of seeing the present defective working of his plan; and if they are adopted, the objects will still be attained according to his general principles. "N. ARNOTT. "Bedford-square, Dec. 22,1837."
 Mr. Wakley  said, that as the sense of the House had been so unequivocally expressed, it was not necessary for him to trouble them with another word. He would only add that he hoped, that if Dr. Reid had any prejudices on this subject, he would be aided by those who had no such prejudices. The existing evil was very great, and unless it was overcome or counteracted by some means or other, he was perfectly satisfied that it would be attended with serious results.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that the ventilation of the House was so imperfect that he every night suffered from it.
 Sir E. Codrington  expressed his full approbation of the grant in question. The people of England would readily pay for services to the country, and he considered her Royal Highness had rendered most valuable service by her whole deportment, as also by the manner in which she had educated her illustrious daughter.
 Sir John C. Hobhouse  said, that the present mode of ventilation was still attended with great inconvenience and danger. He had gone over the House in company with the hon. Member for Finsbury and Dr. Arnott, and it did certainly strike him that the present system was capable of much amendment. He was not prepared to give a scientific opinion on the subject, but it did appear to him that the alterations suggested by Dr. Arnott were feasible, and might be introduced at a small expense. He begged to be understood as not by any means undervaluing the services of Dr. Reid, but he thought the plans of that gentleman were capable of some improvement. He thought that the hon. Member for Finsbury was entitled to the thanks of the House for introducing this subject; it was one in which the sympathies of the House were entirely with him.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, that if the dissent which had been expressed proceeded only from those with whom he generally differed, he would not think it necessary to express any opinion; but when that dissent had been expressed by one whom he so much valued and respected as his hon. Friend, the Member for Caithness, he should not be doing justice to his own feelings if he did not state his opinions in a few words. He hoped that he should, equally with his hon. Friend, be found indifferent to the smiles of a Court, or the frowns of the people, in the honest and conscientious discharge of his duty. However, he did not think that this question was to be decided by reference either to the one or to the other. The question was merely one of calculation, and was to be considered in reference to the actual situation of the illustrious person in reference to whom this grant had been proposed. It had not been stated that it had been in the course of probability that the Duchess of Kent might have been Queen of England. If her husband had lived, she would now have been Queen Consort: and this ought not to be forgotten in estimating her actual position relatively to their only child and to the Throne. As it was, she was now the mother of the Queen—a position certainly far more prominent and exposed to a greater scale of expenditure, and entitled to more consideration, than that which she recently occupied. He believed that the amount now proposed was not the utmost which was originally proposed for her Royal Highness, and that the country was indebted to the disinterestedness of her Royal Highness for the refusal of a much larger sum in a different shape. There was a prevalent rumour abroad which he believed to be
 1513
