 Mr. S. O'Brien  said that he meant to vote for the adjournment of the debate, but he begged it to be understood that in doing so. He did not pledge himself not to vote for the Address.
 Lord Eliot  observed, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had attacked the noble Lord opposite pretty severely. In offering a few observations in reply to that hon. Member, however, he would not follow the example of the noble Lord by going through the history of the Canadas from the earliest period of their connexion with this country. He would merely ask if there had not been two great boons granted to that colony, and if the first of these was not the act of 1791, by which the House of Assembly was conceded; for he found in that act an oath to be taken by each Member of that Assembly, to the effect, that he would be faithful and true in his allegiance to his Majesty the Sovereign of Great Britain, that those provinces of the Canadas were dependent upon that kingdom, that he would do everything in his power against any traitorous conspiracy or any attempt that might be made against the Crown or its dignity, that he would do his utmost endeavour to discover and make known to his Majesty all such treasonable attempts; and that he swore this without any equivocation or mental reservation? Having said so much regarding the act of 1791, he would leave to the hon. Member for Kilkenny the task of accounting for the conduct of those persons whose cause he had that evening advocated. The next great concession made to Canada was in 1831, when the whole of the Crown possessions—the territorial and casual revenues—were given over to the House of Assembly, on condition of their paying the expenses of the Executive Government of the colony. Did they respond to that act of generosity? Did they keep the condition which they had entered into? On the contrary, they had no sooner received it than they refused to provide for the Judges appointed by the Crown, and for the Executive generally, notwithstanding it formed an express portion of the declaration on their parts that they should do so. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had followed the example of the noble Lord, and entered
 56 57
 Lord J. Russell , in explanation, said, that he had been misapprehended by the hon. Member for Liskeard. The hon. Member had supposed, that he had negatived every proposition for councils similar to those which had existed in the old colonies; but what he had said was, that he agreed with the Report of the Commissioners, that without determining whether Elective Councils might or might not be expedient, or whether they were applicable to the North American colonies, the state
 89
 Lord J. Russell : Mr. Speaker, I rise in pursuance of the promise which I made to the House on a former occasion, to bring under its consideration at the earliest possible opportunity, the affairs of Canada. In proportion to the satisfaction which I feel whenever it falls to my lot to propose any measure ensuring additional advantages to my fellow
 8 9 10 cens 11 12 13 14 "The proceeds of the above-mentioned duties, said Sir G. Murray, and of the territorial revenue of the Crown, with the produce of fines, forfeitures, and other incidents of that nature, appear to constitute, however, the only fund which his Majesty's Government can lawfully apply, at its discretion, to the defraying the expenses of the civil government and those of the administration of justice in the province. It is, therefore, to be understood for the future, as a fixed and unalterable principle, that, with the exception of the funds already mentioned, no part of the revenue of Lower Canada must be applied to the public service, nor to any object whatever, except in pursuance of an act of appropriation passed by the three branches of the local Legislature. I am by no means insensible to the consequence which must necessarily result from the recognition and the observance of this principle. So long as the Assembly is called upon to provide for and to regulate any portion of the public expenditure, it will virtually acquire a control over the whole. If the entire charge of the civil government of the province could be limited to the amount of the Crown revenues, it might be possible to act without any dependence on the Assembly But whether such a result would be desirable, or would be really conducive to the welfare of the province at large, it is unnecessary for me to inquire. It is sufficient to say that, under the existing law, the executive government of Lower Canada cannot be relieved from a state of virtual pecuniary dependence upon the Assembly, by any constitutional means; and methods of a different nature must not be resorted to." 15 "As soon as the inhabitants of Lower Canada made known to the King the sufferings of the country, and suggested the remedy for those evils—as soon as their humble petitions were laid at the foot of the throne—the Sovereign, ever inclined towards constantly faithful subjects, positively ordered that those petitions should be forthwith submitted to the supreme tribunal of the empire. The charges and well-founded complaints of the Canadians, before that august senate, were referred to a Committee of the House of Commons, indicated by the Colonial minister; that Committee exhibiting a striking combination of talent and patriotism, uniting a general knowledge of public and constitutional law to a particular acquaintance with the state of both the Canadas, formally applauded almost all the reforms which the Canadian people and their representatives demanded, and still fervently demand. After solemn investigation, after deep and prolonged deliberation, the Committee made a report—an imperishable monument of their justice and profound wisdom—an authentic testimonial of the reality of our grievances, and of the justice of our complaints, faithfully interpreting our wishes and our wants." 16 "That on the permanent settlement before mentioned being effected with the consent of this House, it will be expedient to render the governor, lieutenant-governor, or person administering the government for the time being, the judges or executive councillors, independent of the annual vote of this House, to the extent of their present salaries. "That amongst those questions not particularly mentioned on the present occasion, this House holds as most desirable to be admitted, and most essential to the future peace, welfare, and good government of the province, viz., the independence of the judges, and their removal from the political business of the province; the responsibility and accountability of public officers; a greater independence of support from the public revenues, and more intimate connexion with the interests of the colony in the composition of the Legislative Council; the application of the late property of the Jesuits to the purposes of general education; the removal of all obstructions to the settlement of the country, particularly by Crown and clergy reserves remaining unoccupied in the neighbourhood of Roode and Settlewaite, and exempt from the common
 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 The Gazelte 24 "It may not, however, be improper to address to your Lordship one caution of a different nature. Whatever may be the ground of the disputes which have so long prevailed between the Executive Government and the House of General Assembly of the province, it could not, with any degree of truth, or even of plausibility, be alleged that they have either originated, or have been prolonged, with a view to any interests, real or imaginary, excepting those of the people of Canada themselves. No motive could possibly be assigned as influencing British policy towards this part of his Majesty's dominions, except the advancement of the social welfare of the inhabitants, and the development of the resources of the country. In promoting these great ends, the King has found an object worthy of the noblest ambition and of the most earnest solicitude. Even if the counsels submitted to his Majesty for the government of Lower Canada were admitted to be as injudicious as they have been sometimes described to be; yet, even on that supposition, the singleness and disinterestedness of the motives by which his Majesty's confidential advisers have been actuated would be beyond dispute. What has Great Britain to gain by the misgovernment of so important a portion of the British empire? There is no single ground of national competition which could induce the metropolitan state to abuse her authority, or which should make that authority a subject of reasonable distrust to the Canadian people, if it could, with any justice, be supposed that those who are honoured with a place in his Majesty's more immediate councils could be diverted by the sordid desire of patronage from the upright discharge of duties so clear and important as those which they owe to British North America. Yet it is demonstrable that so unworthy a motive has not exercised the slightest influence on their deliberations. I do not find, for many years past, a solitary example of any place, excepting that of the governor himself and one or two of the chief officers of customs, having been conferred, in Lower Canada, on any person except the settled inhabitants of the province, or in consequence of any recommendation but that of the governor. No British Minister, during the present or the last reign, has ever used the patronage of British North America either to promote his political power or the personal advantage of himself or his connections. I need scarcely add that his Majesty is firmly resolved to enforce the observance in future of the same just and liberal policy." 25 26 27 ipso facto 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 habitans l. l. l. l. 40 l. l. l. l. 41 "Hear, hear!" 42 "That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, to thank her Majesty for her gracious communication of papers relating to the affairs of Canada. "To assure her Majesty that the anxious consideration of this House shall be given to the preparation of such measures as the present exigency may require. "To express to her Majesty our deep concern that a disaffected party in Canada should have had recourse to open violence and rebellion, with a view to throw off their allegiance to the Crown. "To declare to her Majesty our satisfaction that their designs have been opposed no less by her Majesty's loyal subjects in North America than by her Majesty's forces; and to assure her Majesty that while this House is ever ready to afford relief to real grievances, we are fully determined to support the efforts of her Majesty for the suppression of revolt and the restoration of tranquillity."
 Lord John Russell  did not think the House would consider that he was unreasonable when he stated that he must oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Westminster for the adjournment of the debate. The hon. Member for Kilkenny said, the House had been taken by surprise, but that was not the fact; for he begged to say that he gave notice when the House last separated, that he meant this day to bring forward the affairs of Canada, and that that subject should have precedence of all other business. With respect to the Address, all he need say, was, that, so far from pledging the House to particular measures, all that was asked by it was, to know whether they determined to maintain the allegiance of those colonies or to abandon them? Now, that was a question on which he thought he had a right to call for the decision of that House. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth had blamed the Government for not providing for what had happened in the first instance. He would not stop, then, to vindicate the Government, but he would say that advantage had been gained by the delay, because the receipt of further intelligence had rendered that which had been obscure before plain and intelligible. The whole of the papers connected with the matter had been laid on the table and fully considered, and, when all this had been done, it was, he must say, a little too much to ask for further delay. The hon. Gentleman was aware that this was not the first occasion when the affairs of Canada had been discussed, and that he and his friends had expressed their opinions freely on the subject at the late meeting at the Crown and Anchor. Under such circumstances, it was a little too much to say now that they were unable to answer his speech—and therefore he should persist in calling for the decision of the House on the hon. Gentleman's motion, concluding, of course, that those who should vote for the adjournment meant to give a negative to the Address.
 Mr. C. Buller  was afraid that the right hon. Baronet alluded to him when h e right hon. Baronet referred to some hon. Member's cheer as evincing an insensibility to the importance of his argument, founded on a laborious research into precedents. He was sorry if he had offended the right hon. Baronet by that cheer; but if the right hon. Baronet had understood the cheer, he would have known that it meant to express his astonishment that a parson of the right hon. Baronet's intellectual powers should have expended so much of them on what he could not help calling laborious trifling. The right hon. Baronet had said he was not sensible of the importance of the question, because he was not sensible of the importance of forms. He believed that the forms of the House had been matured with great wisdom; but he was more sensible of the importance of circumstances. A grave question like this should render them indifferent to forms. He was sorry if he judged hastily of the right hon. Baronet's speech, and of the part he considered most important; but he thought that the right hon. Baronet had considered that part most important in which he had been able to taunt his political opponents, and by a dexterous application of what had fallen from the hon. Members for London and Kilkenny, to call upon them to aid him in turning out the present Ministers, and bringing back those excellent Ministers who had been removed from office by what he termed factious means. But this was unimportant in comparison with the subject itself; and he (Mr. Buller) was anxious to express his desire as a Member who had given his support to the resolutions of the Government passed last Session, to extend that support to her Majesty's Ministers in their policy towards Canada so far as at present developed. He must say, however, that the noble Lord had shown indications in his speech of a tone and spirit which had not led him to expect much liberality on the noble Lord's part. But when he had got over the little irritation at the tone of the noble Lord's speech, and came to examine the proofs themselves, he found that he could offer no opposition to his motion. He could not offer any opposition to an address pledging the House to assist her Majesty to put down an insurrection.
 87 88
 Mr. Baines  seconded the motion and said, that he did so with no factious view, but because he thought the matter to be of great national importance, and that they were bound to address their minds to it in a manner worthy of the subject. He certainly felt that they were taken by surprise, and that they had come down to the House without knowing, in fact, what they were going to discuss. Such a knowledge he considered necessary to their deliberations, and when he contemplated how much was involved in the question, and that civil war might be the result, he did entreat the noble Lord to afford to the House and the country a full and fair opportunity of discussing a matter which might involve considerations so mighty in their consequences, not only to the Canadas, but to this country.
 Mr. Darby  must protest against the doctrine laid down by the noble Lord, that those who should support the motion for adjourning the debate, intended to negative the Address. Now he for one was ready to vote for the Address, and, although he should do so, he could see no inconsistency in his also supporting the motion for the adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Grote  said, that he was convinced that no measure which did not remedy the complaints made against the Legislative Council would suffice to produce the desired tranquillity in Canada. Till he came into the House, he was entirely ignorant of the intention of the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, as to the course which he meant to pursue; he knew not whether
 60 61 62 63 64 65
 Mr. Warburton  thought that, considering the momentous nature of the subject, and the consequences which might result from their decision, that a fair opportunity ought to be given to every hon. Member who wished to speak, to deliver his sentiments upon it. There were, he believed many Members who had not spoken who wished to address the House, and he thought they ought to be allowed to deliver their sentiments. He did not mean to say that by agreeing to the address they would pledge
 93
 Mr. Leader  said, it was not his intention to enter into the question under discussion, and that he rose merely to protest against the Address which the noble Lord had moved, coupled with the speech which he had made. That speech, he must say, was most unjust in its character towards the Canadian people and the House of Assembly of the Lower Province, and taken in connexion with the Bill which the noble Lord meant to bring in, there could, he thought, be no doubt, that there was to be in the measures of the noble Lord more of coercion and less of conciliation than they had a right to expect at the hands of her Majesty's Government. If the noble Lord had given them some intimation of the course he intended to pursue they would have been prepared to go into the whole subject, or at all events would have had less difficulty as to the line of conduct which they ought to adopt. If they were to oppose the Address by a direct negative it would, he knew, be said, that the motion was resisted by a factious vote, and that was an imputation that he, for one, was anxious to avoid. At the present hour it was impossible, that they could enter into the question so as to be able to refute the many fallacies contained in the noble Lord's speech. [ Laughter. 90 91
 Mr. Hume  was very unwilling to tres-
 43 44 45 46 "It is right we should tell you, and through you, the British Parliament and the British Government, that until you redress our grievances, which are of so important and so grievous a nature, we will not pay up the arrears; but in order to show you how sincerely desirous we are that the machinery of Government should go on, we will, notwithstanding the severity of the measures which you now adopt towards us, vote the supplies for the current year, so that you may have sufficient time to write home to the Colonial-office, and to ascertain whether in that quarter there is any disposition to accede to those claims which we deem just and reasonable." 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55
 Mr. Hume  rose, amidst loud cries of "Spoke, spoke." The hon. Member said, he only wished to say one word to the noble Lord. The question was simply this, whether those who had not spoken, or wished to speak, should have an opportunity afforded them to-morrow of contradicting the statements which the noble Lord had made. It appeared to him that the noble Lord was afraid to trust his speech to examination even for the short space of twelve hours. The noble Lord had taken them by surprise, but if he were, as he would have them believe, confident in the righteousness of his own case, why refuse an adjournment until to-morrow. He had no hesitation in saying, that if the noble Lord had not brought forward the second part of his plan—that relating to the suspension of the Canadian Constitution—he would not have any objection to the Address, but, as the noble Lord had taken that course, they would, he thought, have to blame themselves if they agreed to the motion without more time for consideration were given to them. If the noble Lord wished perfect unanimity on the part of that House, what he ought to do was, to withdraw the second part of his plan, and then, while he declared that the revolution should be put down by means distinct from conciliation, he should say that the just demands of the Canadians should no longer be put off with promises, and state exactly what the Government intended to do in the way of redressing grievances.
 Mr. D. Browne  said, that although he intended to vote for the Address without going into the abstract merits of that part of the plan relating to the suspending of the Canadian Constitution, he still considered the adjournment of the debate for a few hours so reasonable a proposition that he should support it. They should consider the great risk that was involved in the question, and the amount of treasure and blood which might be fruitlessly expended by an over-hasty decision. He thought the noble Lord should be willing to allow the friends of the Canadian people to defend them if they could, rather than take an unfair advantage of them.
 Sir A. Dalrymple  said, he had read the papers, and he did not believe, that the archives of all the Governments of the world could produce such proofs of weakness. On the 6th of March Lord Glenelg says, that the regiments are to be sent out; on the 26th of March he says, they are not to go. If the troops had been on the spot, the traitors in Canada would have considered well before they began the insurrection.
 Sir J. Carnac , without affirming that the Canadian constitution was perfect, or that there was no grievance in the country to redress, was justified by the history of the colony in saying, that the conduct of the British Government towards it had always been marked by extreme liberality. In the first place, on the accession of the country to the British Crown, it was believed that the English laws would be more acceptable to the people than those which they had until then lived under, and they were accordingly given. But when, on trial, it was found that they would Hot afford the satisfaction anticipated, they were at once withdrawn, with the exception of those portions which the people desired generally to retain. At the same period a representative government was granted to them, because they required it, notwithstanding that the American independence had been effected in their neighbourhood, and the French revolution was raging in Europe: On all occasions had the conduct of the British Government towards the Canadians been marked by the desire to raise them in the social and political scale to a complete level with the people of this country. But the House of Assembly were not, it seemed, satisfied. Not content with protecting their own rights and privileges, and carrying them out to the fullest extent, they trenched on those of the other branches of the local Legislature. Every concession possible to
 58 soi-disant 59 veto
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, in the course of the speech with which he had commenced this discussion, had brought under the consideration of the House two most important questions—one, an Address to the Crown, pledging the House of Commons to support the Crown in the efforts which it might make for the suppression of actual revolt; the other, a legislative measure for the suspension of the Constitution of Lower Canada, and investing the individual who was to proceed to that colony for the purpose of taking upon himself the administration of its affairs as Governor with dictatorial power. He was called on to-night, he apprehended, to give his opinion with respect to the first of these propositions, and while as a Member of that House, he should pledge his support to the Crown in its endeavours to put down rebellion on the part of a portion of her Majesty's subjects, he must say, that he was glad that the question of supporting the authority of the Crown against open insurrection, and the legislative measure which the noble Lord proposed to bring forward, had been kept perfectly distinct and separate. He considered that the first question was one of sufficient importance to justify a separate discussion. When it became necessary, he should freely express his opinion with regard to the policy of the measure which the noble Lord had stated it was his intention to propose; but at present he should confine his observations to the question of the Address to the Crown. He lamented that so much time had been permitted to elapse before this subject was brought before them. If he had been in the House when the noble Lord proposed a three weeks' adjournment, he should have voted for the proposition which was
 66 67 68 onus 69 70 71 72 bonâ fide 73 74 75 76 "Some of the immediate fruits of the system now in operation, which, if not put down, must lead to the worst consequences, are to be seen in the apathy and inaction of such of the magistracy and persons of property who had not joined the revolutionary party—in the extreme difficulty of obtaining accurate and available information of what is passing; and judging from recent events, in the little probability, even if evidence of sufficient weight could be procured to arraign the offenders, of a jury taken from the district of Montreal finding bills and convicting on them." "It is proper that I should represent to you the inadequacy of the powers at the disposal of the local Government, for meeting the difficulties that surround it. The law fails to afford its support; the civil authorities become therefore impotent; the Habeas Corpus Act cannot be suspended. The clergy, though well-disposed and loyal, are reluctant to come forward; any further appeal to the; present Parliament would not only be inexpedient and useless, but positively injurious; and a dissolution offers no prospect of a more reasonable House of Assembly, nor any hope that the new House, which would be composed of a majority of the old Members, would recede in any particular, from the demands so pertinaciousty insisted on by the present body. Indeed, a dissolution, if decided on at all should not at any rate be resorted to, before the whole of the measures and arrangements you now have in contemplation respecting this province shall have passed into law and be perfected. In such circumstances, and seeing that the Imperial Parliament has solemnly and unequivocally stated that it will not accede to the Assembly's demands, I am, forced, however reluctantly, to come to the conclusion that the only practical course now open for conducting the affairs of this province with any benefit to the inhabitants generally, is at once formally to suspend the present constitution, which both parties unite in confessing cannot
 77 "The mode of proceeding adopted for keeping up and increasing this feeling is by parading nightly, in the town of Montreal, large and organized bands of men, who, however, have as yet proceeded to no acts of violence or breaches of the peace; by inflammatory speeches at meetings; by seditious publications and resolutions of the central committees; by placing (in the most disturbed of the rural parishes) those who are loyal and hold opposite political opinions under a species of excommunication, and keeping them in dread of nocturnal injuries to their property; by burning in effigy those in higher stations, and by subjecting them to a kind of annoyance called a  charivari, 78 79 "It appears, from letters of Mr. Hume, addressed to some of the Ministers of the Crown, that he is desirous of representing himself as the agent, or, at all events, as being authorised to express the sentiments of the people of Upper Canada on the subject of their political feelings, and the public affairs of the province. Your Committee are of opinion that the honour and character of his Majesty's loyal subjects in this province require that it should be promptly and emphatically declared by their representatives that Mr. Hume is among the last men they would select to advocate their cause, or represent their feelings or wishes to the British nation. The people of Upper Canada recollect that, in the year 1834, Mr. Joseph Hume addressed a letter to a correspondent of his in this country, which, referring to his correspondent's recent expulsion from, and re-election to, the Assembly, contained the following treasonable language and advice:—' Your triumphant election of the 16th, and ejection from the Assembly of the 17th, must hasten that crisis which is fast approaching in the affairs of the Canadas, and which will terminate in independence and freedom from the baneful domination of the mother country, and the tyrannical conduct of a small and despicable faction in the colony. The proceedings between 1772 and 1782, in America, ought not to be forgotton; and to the honour of the Americans, and for the interest of the civilised world, let their conduct and result be ever in view.'" 80 "And when it is remembered with what indignation and disgust the publication of this detestable communication was received throughout the province, his Majesty's loyal subjects cannot but regard with abhorrence the idea that the person who had thus insulted them should be supposed by their Sovereign and their fellow subjects in the United Kingdom to be their accredited agent, that they held any communication with him, or that he was in any way clothed with authority to speak their sentiments or represent their views on any subject, public or private." "I acted on the authority of the hon. Member for Kilkenny; visit not, therefore, this delusion and its consequences upon me, the mere agent and instrument of the hon. Gentleman, but rather visit it upon your own Member, to whom I gave credit as being then a Member for a metropolitan county, and, therefore, necessarily intimately acquainted with British feelings and views. I have been acting upon the advice received from the representative of Middlesex, and in apportioning the punishment to which I am subject for my misdeeds, remember his own emphatic declaration, that the real responsibility for the revolt rests not on the humble deluded agent, but on those who gave advice and uttered suggestions disparaging to the authority of their own country and destructive of the integrity of the British empire."
 Viscount Howick  said, that although the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down had expressed his concurrence in the Address which had been moved by his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Home De-
 81 82 83 84 R. Peel 85 86
 Mr. Borthwick , in voting with Ministers on this occasion, begged not to be understood as sanctioning, much less praising, their colonial policy as respected Canada; on the contrary, he protested against that policy. He would not say, that Ministers conducted the affairs of Canada in such a way as to sanction rebellion, but he would at the same time insist, that they had not taken the necessary means to prevent it. They were inexcusable in not having a sufficient military force in the colony to put down the insurrection at its first outbreak. They were the more inexcusable on this point inasmuch as they had been forewarned by an hon. Gentleman not now in the House, that no sooner would the 8th Resolution be promulgated in Canada than a rebellion would instantly break out. This statement was made distinctly, unequivocally, and in a manner which could not be mistaken. Ministers heard it stated in that House, and stated in a manner likely to render the prophecy fulfilled, that insurrection would take place as soon as the winter froze up the passages of the St. Lawrence, so as to prevent the landing of the troops. This question could not be viewed as an isolated case. It was connected with other matters, which the House would do well to take into its consideration. The hon. Member for Bridport recommended reconciliation and charity towards Canada. Was that a time for conciliation—was that a time for the interposition of charity between the Crown and the subject, when the subjects were arrayed in open rebellion? It had been argued, that there was no sympathy with the Canadian rebels in this country. Did the late meeting at the Crown and Anchor warrant this assumption? What was the language held there—what were the appeals there made to the sympathies of the British public?
 116 "In freedom let Canadians live, And brave the death which tyrants give." 117 ergo 118 119
 Mr. James  expressed his great satisfac-
 127
 Sir Hussey Vivian , in answer to the allegation that the British troops had burned the houses of the Canadians, together with their inmates, begged to say, that there was no statement of any such circumstance having taken place, throughout the whole of the papers which had been laid before Parliament. It was true, a barn was destroyed by fire by the soldiers; but up to the present moment it did not appear that a single individual was in the barn at the time. When this question was discussed on a former occasion, he was sorry to hear it held forth as an argument for giving up the Canadian colonies, that, by possibility, the British soldiers would be induced, by improper motives, to quit their colours, and that they would look to the spoliation of the British settlers in Canada as an advantage that would compensate them for deserting their country. He (Sir Hussey Vivian) should like to know when British soldiers had ever been influenced by such base motives. It was perfectly well known that in the army in Canada great desertion took place. The habits and facilities afforded by the proximity of the United States and the advantages which were held out to the troops led to that desertion. He knew that during the time he was in Ireland, the dep6ts there had to send out twice the number of troops every year to the Canadas that they had to any other part of the British dominions. But what was the fact now? Why, that of late years the troops had not deserted; and he would venture to say that when the troops should be
 128 129
 Sir Hussey Vivian  in explanation, declared, that he was the last man in the world to calumniate any one. The hon. Member had spoken of some letters, which he said had not been alluded to. He did not know what other letters the hon. Member had written besides those referred to.
 Mr. Borthwick  begged to remind the hon. Member for Bridport that persons taken in war were not state prisoners.
 Lord John Russell  did not wish to claim credit for the Government for carrying clemency to the extent to which some hon. Members supposed it would go. He did not say that Government had interposed or would interpose with respect to any individual case, upon which judgment should be pronounced in the colony. He had merely stated a general opinion with regard to executions, but with regard to any case that might occur, the opinion must depend upon the fads connected with that individual, and upon the state of the province at the time.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that without wishing to give any decisive opinion as to the prayer of the petition, he thought it ought to be printed, and taken into consideration on another day. His hon. Friend had introduced this subject, no doubt, from necessity at the end of the evening. He thought, however, that the House should be allowed time to consider the precedents on the case, and both whether the petitioner should be heard, and if so, in what character. As to whether he were to be considered agent for the colonies—[Mr.  Grote: 162
 Lord J. Russell  had not the least objection to the intended motion.
 Lord John Russell  felt it necessary to address the House after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet. He was quite sure that the right hon. Gentleman had quite unintentionally misstated the intentions of the Government on this question, and had imputed to them a course of proceeding which they had no intention of following. The right hon. Gentleman said, in the first place, that when insurrection raged in certain parts of the province, and when men's minds were greatly excited by what had taken place in Canada, it would be inexpedient and unwise to call together what the right hon. Baronet called a convention of estates, and which he designated
 153 154 155 156
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had stated just now, though the statement had not been noticed by the right hon. Baronet, that it would be inserted in the preamble that such instructions be given to the governor. He did not think it necessary that there should be any clause in the Bill empowering the governor to call a committee of advice together, such a proceeding being perfectly within the prerogative of the Crown, or to give power to the governor to make a new division of districts. He might not have made himself quite intelligible to the right hon. Gentleman; but this he
 157
 Lord John Russell  said, it appeared to him that the hon. Member meant to imply that there was an expectation, either on the part of the Government or the House, that sanguinary executions would take place under the direction of Sir John Col-borne. He must say, in order to prevent misconception, that he had no expectation that Sir John Colborne would order sanguinary executions, or would do anything beyond what he would consider a painful duty on this subject. It was therefore certainly not necessary that the Government should take steps to desire Sir John Colborne to refrain from a course which he considered it unlikely he should pursue—namely, a course marked by a character of cruelty, or one of a sanguinary nature. At the same time Government had not thought right to withhold from Sir John Colborne their general opinion as to the inexpediency of capital executions on an occasion of this nature. They had informed him of this in their dispatches, the contents of which he was not inclined to state in detail, but they had stated their
 158
 Lord J. Russell  appeared at the bar of the House, and announced that her Majesty, having been waited upon by privy councillors, who were Members of that House, with the Address of the House, had been pleased to return the following most gracious answer:—
 "I thank you for the assurance that my faithful Commons will support my efforts for
 96
 Lord John Russell  said: Sir, I rise to ask for leave to bring in a Bill, of which I gave notice last night, to provide for the temporary government of Canada. As I have already explained the general purport of the Bill, and of the policy to be pursued under it, I do not think it necessary to enter at any length upon the subject at present. I will, however, shortly state the immediate object of this Bill, and of the instructions which will be given to the Governor-General who has just been appointed. The nature of the Bill is to enable the Governor-General and council—that council not to be limited in number, but of which five shall be a sufficient number to constitute a council—on the motion of the Governor-General, to pass any laws which may be considered necessary during the present suspension of the Legislature of that province. It may be necessary to pass laws, and to make provisions for temporary purposes, and for the maintenance of the civil authority in that province. It may be necessary also to pass temporary measures for other purposes. It is the intention of her Majesty's Government to confide these powers in the first instance to Sir J. Colborne, who at present administers the Government in the lower province of Canada, and in case it should be found necessary for him to resort to any extraordinary powers of legislation, in order to re-establish the authority of the Crown in that province, the power will be given to him by this Bill to do so. But immediately after the newly-appointed Governor-General arrives in the province, this power will become vested in him, and he will exercise it according to the provisions of the Bill which I now propose to introduce. With respect, therefore, to the measures which are necessary in order to re-establish tranquillity, besides those powers which confer the means of immediately putting an end to
 97
 Mr. Hawes  did not mean to imply that any unnecessary cruelty would he exercised by Sir John Colborne. He had merely referred to the conduct of Government, and not to the conduct of the gallant officer. He must add, that he was perfectly satisfied with the answer of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Hawes  wished to put a question of considerable importance to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell). He wished to know, having supported the address in order to strengthen the hands of Government with a view to put down revolt, and being also prepared to give his consent to the introduction of this Bill, whether the noble Lord had taken measures to prevent sanguinary punishments from taking place previous to the arrival of Lord Durham in Canada?
 Mr. C. Buller  said, that his observations intended to apply to political offences only.
 Mr. C. Buller  was sorry to hear such an observation from the hon. Baronet. Sufficient angry feeling had been excited against the individual, and it did not require any addition. He should think that the mercy of Government might be properly extended towards any individual, and he believed that in such a course the feelings of the people would be with them.
 159
 Mr. Baines  hoped, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, under the circumstances of the case, would not divide the House, as it was impossible for hon. Gentlemen, without having seen the Bill, to form anything like a just estimate of its merits or defects. He therefore trusted, that, in a case in which there was so much difficulty, his hon. Friend would not call upon the House to divide.
 Mr. Cayley  was one of those who adopted upon this question, a view not wholly in accordance with the opinions which had been generally expressed by the different speakers upon either side of the House. He dissented, however, more materially from those speakers who were disconnected with her Majesty's Government. He must say that he felt it to be his duty, having entered upon the consideration of this subject in a calm and dispassionate temper, to do her Majesty's Government the justice of awarding to it the humble need of his praise and approbation of its conduct in connexion with this question. The hon. Member for Kilkenny, in the course of the observations which he had addressed to the House on the previous evening, had inveighed loudly against the shedding of human blood. For his part, he was as averse to the shedding of blood as any human being could be; but it appeared to him, that the very object of the Government, as unfolded in the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, was to prevent the useless shedding of blood; for if vigorous measures were not in the first instance adopted, the war would most probably become one of extermination. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had also said to them "Conciliate." Now, he would ask whether they had not already
 110 Leeds Mercury 111 112 113
 Mr. Lucas  would not have obtruded himself upon the attention of the House, if it had not been for the direct appeal made to the Irish Members by the hon. Member for Mayo. Knowing, that most of the Gentlemen from Ireland, on both sides of the House, were absent in attendance upon duties which they considered of greater moment, and such as would more fitly occupy their attention, he (Mr. Lucas) was unwilling to put himself forward; but as he happened to be present, he would answer the appeal of the hon. Member for Mayo on the only point which could be justly brought into consideration at the present moment, as indicating a community of interest or feeling between the people of Ireland and the people of Canada. For a long period—a period of nearly fifty years—a considerable emigration had been going on from Ireland to Canada, fostered and encouraged by the loyal and well-meaning residents in the latter country; sanctioned also and protected by the Legislature. Continuing for fifty years, and each year progressively increasing, that process of emigration had the effect of locating in Canada a large amount both of the population and capital of Ireland. Those who were disposed to emigrate, must necessarily have some capital, and all the Irish settlers in Canada, when they quitted their native country, either on account of political disasters or pecuniary deficiencies, still carried with them their capital, some more and some less. That capital was embarked in successful mercantile or agricultural speculations, and rested for its protection entirely on the faith of the British Government. They were peaceable, industrious, and loyal, attached to the British Government, and inclined to support it if the Government would support them. For the sake of his country
 125
 Mr. Grote  presented a petition from J. A. Roebuck, praying that he might be heard at the bar in defence of the House of Assembly of Lower Canada, and in opposition to the measure of "impolicy and injustice" which Government meant to introduce with regard to that country. The petition also contained resolutions of the House of Assembly, appointing Mr. Roebuck agent. He was persuaded the House would see the reason and justice of granting the prayer of this petition. When the Act of 1791 was passed, establishing the constitution of Canada, he found an entry on their journals of the application of Mr. Adam Limburner, as agent for Quebec, to be heard by himself or counsel against certain clauses of the Act. This application was agreed to, as well as that contained in the petitions of Mr. James Finn and Mr. Alexander Ellice, merchants trading to Quebec, to the same effect.
 160 161
 Mr. Grote  stated, that all he desired was, that the Bill should not be advanced to the stage of the second reading before the question as to the admission of Mr. Roebuck to be heard was decided. He should, therefore, give notice that he meant to call the attention of the House on Monday to that subject before the second reading of the Bill.
 Mr. Warburton : Mr. Roebuck had been acknowledged as agent by. Lord Gosford, and was paid by the House of Assembly.
 Mr. Warburton  begged to remind the House that in the precedent which had been quoted, the complaint was against certain clauses of the Act, and counsel might, therefore, without unfairness, be heard, as it was intended in that case they should be, on bringing up the report. But here he apprehended that the opposition to be given was intended against the principle of the proposed measure, and the proper course, therefore, was to have the petitioner heard at the bar before the second reading, in accordance with all established precedents.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that according to the common practice of this country, state prisoners were always treated with great humanity. It would, however, be seen from papers that had been laid on the Table of the House, that owing to the neglected state of the prisons of Montreal a prisoner had lately perished. He hoped that the same indulgence and attention would be shown to the prisoners in Montreal that was shown to prisoners in this country.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that when he last addressed the House on this subject an hon. Friend of his had said, as a matter of reproach against him, that which he rather received as a compliment, that he came to the discussion of this subject with all the composure he would bring to the consideration of a bill relating to weights and measures. He could wish that all who approached the subject might be guided by the recommendation of the Minister of the Crown, at the time when those great debates arose on the disputes between Great Britain and her colonial possessions which now constitute the United States, and dismiss at once all bitterness of feeling. He was of opinion that, in order to obtain the best measure of justice for the Canadians, their friends ought to discuss the matter with the greatest possible coolness and moderation of tone. What he wished was to look at the positive state of the Canadas at present, and not retrospectively to what it had been. No one denied that grievances did exist, to which a remedy should be applied; but he did not see that any good could result in discussions like the present, in going back to canvass what amount of blame or praise was due to one party or the other in events which had already taken place. With regard to the insurgents themselves, he felt glad in believing that the insurrection was, he might say, put down. He must say, that if the insurrection was to be suppressed, it ought to be extinguished at the earliest possible period. If blood were to be spilled, the sooner such scenes of strife and exasperation ceased the more likely would it be to put an end to all the evils attendant upon a state of insurrection. He must be permitted to say, with regard to the course taken by Government in putting down this insurrection, that he did
 103 104 105 106 107 108 109
 Mr. Ellis  considered the answer of the noble Lord altogether different in its character from his first speech. He considered that to give the governor power to name districts would create much discontent.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, it was not his intention to make more than a few observations. He should not have trespassed at all on the attention of the House, if it had not been for some observations which fell from the hon. Member for Evesham in his speech—a speech which, like other similar speeches, was calculated to do much mischief. It was a great and fearful responsibility in any Government to plunge itself into a civil war. It was much easier to get into a civil war than to get out of it. He was not disposed to give any sanction to the using of physical force towards Canada. He would ask, however, whether the Canadians had not grievances to complain of? It was easy to talk of putting down an insurrection. He wished, rather, that justice should be done, and when that was done, he could not bring himself to believe that a whole nation would commit suicide. If the insurrection were only partial, it would be easily put down—it would, in fact, sink of itself. They should consider that the insurrection, if partial, was already at an end; but if general, it would be very difficult to put a stop to it by physical force. He felt considerable embarrassment in voting for the suspension of the constitution which had been granted to the people of Lower Canada. He could not but remember his own feelings when the Irish Coercion Bill was passed. Being brought up with a reverence for the laws and constitution, he could not bring himself to destroy that constitution so granted for the benefit of a whole people, and not of a party. He thought it would, in the present instance, be more advisable for Government to pursue a conciliatory course. He approved of the selection of Lord Durham; that nobleman was one in
 124
 Mr. Hume  was extremely happy to have heard from the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down a repetition of what the right hon. Baronet opposite last night stepped out of his way to notice. He had been afraid that he should not have an opportunity afforded him to reply to that right hon. Baronet; but the present occasion afforded him that opportunity, and he should avail himself of it. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had, as well as others, lent himself to affirm and to propagate a most garbled and incorrect representation. "The hon. and gallant Gentleman has said (continued Mr. Hume) that I ought to know that the revolt would take place because. I had foretold it four years ago. Why, Sir, ten years ago 1 foretold it. When on the opposite side of the House I recommended that the colonies of Upper and Lower Canada should be separated amicably from this country. On that occasion I stated, that if the policy which had been hitherto followed in Canada were continued, it must ultimately lead to resistance and separation. I foretold that, as soon as I beheld the blind and narrow policy which this country was adopting towards those colonies. Ever since my attention has been directed towards the state of our colonies in North America, I have seen nothing
 130 No, no. 131 The Advocate. 132 a a 133 134 Vindicator 135 136 "That forced and unfair constructions have been attempted to be put upon the letter of Joseph Hume, Esq, dated Bryanston-square, March 29, 1834, by those who are hostile to the correction of the abuses in the administration of our provincial affairs; that the electors of the county of York fully deserve the commendation bestowed upon them by the great Reformer, for their continued, firm, and consistent support of their representative upon his repeated unlawful expulsions from the Commons' House of Assembly, whose rash and unconstitutional conduct betrays a want of common sense and prudence, being a sacrifice of the greatest of public principles, and an in-
 137 138 139 Interruption. 140 141 142 "I would, therefore, concede; and, if I found I had not conceded enough, I would concede more. I know of no way of governing mankind but by conciliating them; and according to the forcible way which the Irish have of expressing their meaning, 'I know of no mode of governing the people but by letting them have their own way.' And what shall we lose by it? If Ireland is governed by conceding to all her ways and wishes, will she be less useful to Great Britain? What is she now?" 143
 Mr. Hume  intended to divide the House on the principle of the Bill, and it was not necessary to see the details of it before they came to a decision on the subject.
 Mr. Dillon Browne  would not follow the histrionic speech of the hon. Member, nor would he argue the judiciousness of sending either the hon. Member for Kilkenny or Colonel Thompson to the Tower; nor would he institute a comparison between the hon. Member for Dublin and Mr. Papineau—he thought, indeed, that there was an essential difference between them, one advocating a physical and the other a moral agitation—but he would try to adhere to the subject matter of debate. He rose with reluctance to address the House, and should not have done so, only fearing, as the Irish Members had taken little part in the debates regarding Canada, that it might be supposed they were apathetic respecting the interests of that colony, and did not sympathise in the sufferings of its people. The simple circumstance of his being an Irishman was a sufficient excuse for addressing them, for, on account of a sad association in misfortune, Ireland and Canada had been placed in a companionship. Similar, if not identical, grievances harassed and humbled them together. They knelt together before the same bar of British justice; they had been dismissed together with contumely and insult; and now, when they appeared again to seek their just rights, though not in the same companionship of humility, though not in the same attitude of prayer—Ireland in that of supplication, Canada in armour—it must be excusable in even the humblest representative of the Irish people to express his sentiments in a debate which so deeply involved the fortunes of those who were fellow-sufferers with his countrymen, and to take an interest in the struggle, in which their rulers might be taught a lesson which wisdom learned from experience might induce them to apply to his country.
 120 121 122 123
 Mr. Wakley  said, that, as it appeared to him that there would not be the slightest objection to hear a detail of the grievances of which the Assembly complained, he thought they should now at once determine when Mr. Roebuck should be heard. The principle of the Bill would be decided on the second reading; and it was, therefore, important that the agent of the Assembly should be heard on Monday, for which that stage was fixed.
 Mr. Gillon  was anxious to say a few words on the subject which had been introduced by the noble Lord last evening. He did not often trouble the House, nor would he detain them long on this occasion. He should endeavour to follow the recommendation of the hon. Member for Bridport and speak on the matter without the slightest mixture of asperity or passion, and should not be led even by the injudicious observations of the hon. Member for Yorkshire to depart from that line. The reason that the hon. Member had assigned why the Canadians should be contented was the most extraordinary he had ever heard put forward amongst rational beings. That hon. Member said, that the Canadians ought to be contented under their grievances because the state of things at home was no better. That was a ridiculous assertion. He had yet to learn that bad Government at home justified an equally bad system abroad. Neither could he join in the hon. Member's eulogium on our colonial system. That hon. Member stated, that the Canadian grievances of 1828 had all been redressed; this was news to him, and he believed to most Members of that House. The grievances had been acknowledged, but the redress had not been granted. The Canadians had gone on petitioning the House in the most patient manner, and if their demands had increased with the protracted denial of justice it was only the legitimate consequence of the conduct of Government and of that House. No one could regret more than he did the unfortunate events which had just taken place. He regretted as deeply the line of conduct which had been adopted by some individuals. He did not think that neglect, or even aggression, justified men in engaging in civil war. No one deprecated civil war
 114 115
 Sir George Grey  remarked, that had it not been for some observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he should not have obtruded himself upon the attention of the House, although he should have felt it to be a most grateful duty to express the gratification which he had received from the unanimity which prevailed upon the measure which had been submitted to them. Not only did he derive much gratification from that circumstance, but he also felt a peculiar pleasure in contrasting the tone and temper which had pervaded the debate of that evening with those which had characterised the discussion of the evening before the adjournment of the House, an adjournment every way called for, because the House was then in possession of but very imperfect information, and because that after more mature reflection, and the communication of more accurate intelligence, they would be enabled to approach the discussion of the subject with that tone and in that spirit which the hon. Member for Bridport had recommended, and in accordance with which that evening's debate had been conducted. He regretted that the hon. Member for Kilkenny, standing, as he rejoiced the hon. Member did, almost alone in that House, was not ashamed to avow himself the defender of rebellion. The hon. Member had complained of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) as having been guilty of disrespect and want of courtesy in speaking of the rebel Mackenzie as a Mr. Mackenzie, although
 144 145 146 147 148 149
 Mr. Ward  was anxious to make a few observations at the present early part of the debate, because, though he had attended the House last night at some per-
 98 99 100 101 102
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, it was a question with many, and himself amongst them, whether capital punishments might not be altogether abolished. But with respect to the person who on a late occasion had been denounced as a traitor, amidst the cheers of nine-tenths of the House, he must say that he should consider it a false and spurious humanity to extenuate any sentence that might be passed upon him.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he had one word to say in explanation of his former observations. He could not imagine that there were ten men in the House who had not inferred from the first speech of the noble Lord, that the proposed Bill contained provisions authorising and empowering the governor to call together a committee from both Canadas, such committee having a representative character. This, undoubtedly, must have been the construction put on that speech by others than himself; for the hon. Member for St. Albans had declared, that he had become reconciled to the Bill precisely on account of the general advance it made in legislation, by enabling the governor to call together a Canadian convention; and this compliment of the hon. Member to the liberality of the Government no Member of the Government had once attempted to repudiate. Now the noble Lord said, that all that was intended was to give instructions to the governor, by the exercise of the royal prerogative, to call a certain number of gentlemen together to advise with him. If this were all that was intended, no impediment could be offered to it. But what he (Sir R. Peel) objected to was, the giving the sanction of Parliament to any measure giving an authoritative and formal character to such a Committee. The noble Lord said, that the prerogative of the Crown might be extended to sending for these gentlemen as representatives of the districts of Lower Canada. He (Sir R. Peel) doubted whether there was such a power; but, at all events, if it was contemplated to give the governor the power, in the present state of Lower Canada, to name certain gentlemen to such a committee as representatives of the feelings and opinions of the Lower Canadians, he should object to such a proposition.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that as the hon. Member for Kilkenny intended to divide the House on the principle of the bill, he should at once state that he should vote for its introduction, but by voting for leave to bring in the bill he did not thereby mean to imply that he gave his unqualified approval to the measure, the details of which had that night been explained to them by the noble Lord. As the constitution of Lower Canada was at present practically suspended, it might be necessary to have some measure similar to a portion of the bill then proposed. Therefore, to so much of the bill as suspended the constitution of Lower Canada, and made provision
 150 151 152
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if anything could tend to diminish the influence of the Crown in the exercise of mercy, it was the House of Commons thus discussing the extent to which that mercy should go, without any knowledge of the nature or character of the crimes committed. Did the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard mean to say that for no crime attending the insurrection in Canada should a single drop of blood be shed?
 Sir R. Peel  thought, the capacity in which Mr. Roebuck should be heard was quite a subordinate question compared to this, as to whether he should be heard on the part of the Assembly of the province. His own impression was, considering the extraordinary nature of the suspension proposed, which was justified, he thought, by necessity, that they ought not to debar the parties who were to suffer this penalty from making any representations they might think essential. Therefore, reserving his opinion as to the subjects of the defence, he was persuaded that, while they proceeded with as much deliberation as was necessary for the enforcement of the proposed measures, they ought not to shut out any statements on the part of the colonists which they might deem necessary to be submitted.
 Mr. Clay , in explanation, declared, that he had never denied the right of the House of Assembly to refuse to grant the supplies.
 Mr. Clay  could not bring himself to give a silent vote upon this occasion. He could not forbear from expressing the very great pleasure which he felt at hearing the calm, temperate, and rational speech of his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, in recommending the proper course of policy to be pursued by this country towards Canada. At the same time, he could not help observing, that although his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, did not attempt to defend the conduct and measures of the insurgents in Lower Canada, still there was, he thought, a disposition to palliate the insurrection. It appeared to him to admit of little doubt, that the present, insurrection in Canada was wholly without justification, without palliation, without excuse. All their grievances were likely to be redressed—all were in a fair, and reasonable, and probable course of adjustment, and they never wanted for the services of able and earnest advocates. He was of opinion that by a proper use of the privileges conferred upon them by their constitution, by a legitimate exercise of the power which a representative constitution had placed in their hands, by constitutional means, they might and would have succeeded in obtaining a redress of those grievances of which they complained, They had no right, however, to stop the supplies and throw the machinery of Government into disorder. They had no right to avail themselves of that power for the purpose of enforcing organic changes in the constitution of 1791. They should look at the nature of the compact between the colonies and the parent state. Upon that point he would observe, that there was no analogy whatever between the claim set up by the House of Assembly of Lower Canada to stop the supplies for the purpose of obtaining a constitutional object, and the legitimate and wise powers in that respect wielded by the Imperial Parliament. There was no second party to the compact in this country. There was no intermediate place of resort. There was a
 126
 Viscount Palmerston  stated, that the documents and correspondence relating to the Maine boundary, from the date of those last laid before the House up to the present time, would shortly be laid on the Table of the House.
 Sir R. Inglis  begged to call the attention of the House to the omission of one phrase which had been made in this petition—viz., the omission of the word "humbly" in the sentence "and your petitioner therefore prays." He assumed that it was entirely accidental, but it was a phrase which it had been the invariable practice of the House to require. If the petition had been presented from any ordinary person, he should not have thought the objection necessary, and he would have been the last person to have made such a complaint.
 Mr. Grote  was sure it never had been the intention of Mr. Roebuck in preparing his petition, or of himself (Mr. Grote) in presenting it, that there should be any omission, or that it should be couched in a manner contrary to the established forms of the House. He was not aware that
 255
 Sir R. Inglis  only wished to observe, as the hon. Member for London had said the omission in this case had been unintentional, though he thought also that it had been made in former petitions when no objection had been raised, that the only exceptions made to this rule were in the cases of Peers and Quakers, to neither of which classes did the present petitioners belong. As the hon. Member had said the omission was one of inadvertence, there would probably be no difficulty in conforming, in this instance, to precedent. He did not wish to raise the privileges of the House too high, but every one who had had the honour of a seat in the House, as was the case with the petitioner, must see the necessity of its forms being attended to, and if the petition had been from an ordinary person, he should not have noticed it.
 Mr. Grote  proposed that John Arthur Roebuck, esq., be heard at the bar of the House as the agent of the Assembly of Lower Canada, against the Canada Bill on the second reading thereof. From the few words which were spoken in the House on Wednesday night on this subject, he hoped there would be no difficulty in his motion being allowed, and that whatever might be the opinions of hon. Gentlemen as to the policy or propriety of the measure, they would think it was not more than justice itself required that an opportunity should be given to the agent of the House of Assembly of Lower Canada, of stating their case before the House of Commons. In the preamble of the Bill now pending in the House, the House would perceive, that in point of fact, the sitting of the House of Assembly would be essentially prohibited; that this was what it was intended most particularly to prevent, and it was a question on which both the House of Assembly, and the whole body of people of Lower Canada were most
 256 257
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that although he concurred in the general considerations of the hon. Member for London as to the advantage of hearing some individual well acquainted with Canada matters on the question before the House, and therefore that it would be most desirable to hear the gentleman before named, he at the same time felt it his duty to protest against any recognition by the House of Mr. Roebuck as the agent of the House of Assembly. The hon. Gentleman on the previous night had cited the case of Mr. Lymburner in 1791, but this case differed from the present in two particulars—the first was, that Mr. Lymburner represented the whole province, or interests common to the whole province, and there was no difference or dissension; and the second point (which was more important) was, that Mr. Lymburner had been especially deputed by the community or a large portion of the community of Canada, and that he was deputed pro  hac vice; 258
 Lord J. Russell  was glad that the question had been reserved for discussion until to-day, in order that the House might fully consider the position in which they were placed. He was glad the hon. Member who had just sat down had stated his views on the question now before them, and he was also glad to find that the hon. Gentleman was of the same opinion which he himself entertained, not to allow objections of a mere formal nature to prevent
 259 260
 Lord Stanley  agreed with the noble Lord that the present Government could not, by any possibility, have any reason to oppose the hearing of Mr. Roebuck in his character as agent of the House of Assembly. It was true that that Gentleman had been received at the Colonial-office as the agent of the House of Assembly, and the Government had given their sanction to this assumption by recognising the motion of the House of Assembly for a certain sum of money to be paid to him as such agent. The Government, therefore, could not refuse to hear him; but this argument had been rendered more necessary by the opportune protest of the hon. Member for Newark. He believed that, except the present Secretary, there never was a Colonial Secretary of State who had ever received a gentleman as the agent of a colony permanently residing in this country. He could speak for himself and for the noble Lord who had preceded him in the direction of colonial affairs (Lord Ripon), and he made this statement in the presence of a noble Lord who, at that time was Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, and who would be able to contradict him if he were wrong, M. Vigier at that time stood in precisely the same situation as Mr. Roebuck, and though he was frequently received at the Colonial-office as a person perfectly competent to speak to the affairs of the province—received just in the same manner as a body of merchants in London would have been if they wished to make any representation of their views to the Colonial Department—yet he could for his own part, and on the part of Lord Ripon, declare that they had declined to receive that gentleman as the authorised and resident agent in this country of the Canadian House of Assembly. The whole colony would have a right to complain if one individual, representing only one portion of the Legislature, should be received at the Colonial-office as agent, and authorised to speak in behalf of the colony with respect to questions on which a great difference of opinion existed among the
 261 pro hac vice 262
 Sir G. Grey  said, that concurring in the conclusion at which the noble Lord had arrived in the latter end of his speech, he earnestly trusted that no more time would be wasted in the consideration of a question which the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) had admitted to be a very subordinate one. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet in so thinking, for he did not believe that any Gentleman, considering the circumstances of Lower Canada, and the provisions of the bill which had been brought in for its better regulation, objected to Mr. Roebuck being heard. But when the noble Lord assumed that the Government had recognised Mr. Roebuck in a different capacity from that in which Mr. Vigier had been recognised, he must be permitted to dispute the accuracy of that statement. The noble Lord said, that the Government had recognised the salary of Mr. Roebuck, but the fact was, that the Government had
 263 Stanley 264
 Mr. C. Buller  understood the hon. Baronet to say, that he was unable to find Lord Glenelg's letter in consequence of the great confusion that prevailed in the Colonial-office. [ "No, no!" 265
 Sir G. Grey  explained, that he had not made any search for Lord Glenelg's answer at the Colonial-office, and he had no doubt that, had he searched for it, he should have found it. That answer might be in the terms stated by the hon. Gentleman, but circumstances of a private nature, over which he had no control, had unexpectedly prevented his attendance at the Colonial-office that day.
 Mr. Gladstone  had not recommended the House to hear Mr. Roebuck in his individual capacity, but he thought that the House might take on itself to do what it had as full a right to do as the House of Assembly, and make Mr. Roebuck an agent for the purpose of giving him a claim to be heard.
 Mr. Roebuck  having advanced to the bar, proceeded to address the House. He began by stating, that it might, perhaps, be requisite at the commencement of his address that he should establish rather more strongly than he had done in his petition the peculiar position in which he wished to stand before that House. He held in his hand an attested copy of the resolutions passed by the House of Assembly of Lower Canada, appointing him agent in this country, and if it should please the House, he would hand in that attested copy to be read by the clerk at the table. He also held in his hand a letter from the Speaker of the House of Assembly of Lower Canada, communicating those resolutions to him, which letter, inasmuch as it contained terms flattering to himself, he should also prefer to hand to the clerk to be read. He did not know whether it was the desire of the House to have them read, but there they were. [The documents were handed in.] Mr. Roebuck then proceeded to say, that he appeared before the House as agent for the House of Assembly of Lower Canada under peculiar circumstances, which he hoped would win for him the kind consideration of that House. Old associations might possibly induce him to
 266 267 268 269 270 271 272 273 274 275 276 l. l. l. 277 l. l. l. 278 279 l., l. l. 280 281 "One of the most important subjects to which their inquiries have been directed has been the state of the Legislative Councils in both the Canadas, and the manner in which
 282 283 "On the 28th of January, 1831, an Address from the Assembly to the Governor, signed by Mr. Papineau the Speaker of the House, contained an assurance to the following purport:—'It will be our earnest desire, that harmony may prevail between the several branches of the Legislature, that full effect may be given to the constitution as established by law, and that it may be transmitted unimpaired to our posterity.' And towards the close of the same year a Bill passed the House of Assembly constituting the Legislative Council a court for the trial of impeachments, without any demand being put forward that it should be made elective. The conciliatory dispatch of Lord Ripon, dated 7th July, 1831, was, moreover, received in the province in a manner that might have seemed to encourage the hope that a more harmonious state of public feeling was on the point of being restored. But notwithstanding these appearances the hostility which had long existed between the two legislative bodies was not really abated, for on the 8th of March, in that very year, 1831, two resolutions were carried in the Assembly, (though they were afterwards struck out of a petition to the King, into which they had been designed to be inserted, declaring, that 'the appointment by the Executive of Legislators for life was fatal to the tranquillity and prosperity of the province, and incompatible with good government.' On the 29th of March also, the Council, on their part, placed on their journals a series of resolutions aimed at the most important privileges of the Assembly, and particularly at the one that, after a contest of many years' duration, they had just succeeded in establishing—we mean the exclusive right to control the financial concerns of the province. And it is not unworthy of remark, that in the very first of these resolutions they lay down as a positive law a practice which (however salutary) rests, we believe, in England only on a resolution of the House of Commons, adopted, like any other of their standing orders, at their own discretion, and revocable at their own pleasure. By a subsequent resolution, the Council likewise assumed to itself the dangerous right of judging what the contingent expenses of the representatives of the people ought to amount to. With these signs, therefore, of a continued hostility before us, we are disposed to ascribe the fact of no formal demand for an Elective Council having been made before 1833 simply to the expectation entertained by the popular party, that in consequence of the recommendations of the Committee of 1828, very essential alterations in the composition of the Council were on the point
 284 "We won't propose the introduction of anything new into our constitution. We won't propose any unnecessary change in the existing state of things. We are not the advocates of any wild theoretical forms of Government;
 285 286 287 288 289 290 291 l. l., l. 292 293 294 295 "Both the Council and the Government have been worsted in many a struggle that they never ought to have engaged in; and if the Assembly has in consequence grown presumptuous, we apprehend that such is only the ordinary effect of an unchecked course of success." "In the course of these protracted disputes, too, it has happened that the Assembly, composed almost entirely of French Canadians, have constantly figured as the assertors of popular rights, and as the advocates of liberal institutions, whilst the Council, in which the English interest prevails, have, on the other hand, been made to appear as the supporters of arbitrary power, and of antiquated political doctrines; and to this alone we are persuaded the fact is to be attributed that the majority of settlers from the United States have hitherto sided with the French rather than the English party. The Representatives of the counties of Stanstead and Missisquoi have not been sent to parliament to defend the feudal system, to protect the French language, or to oppose a system of registration. They have been sent to lend their aid to the assertors of popular rights, and to oppose a Government by which, in their opinion, settlers from the United States have been neglected or regarded with disfavour." 296 "Even during our residence in the province we have seen the Council continue to act in the same spirit, and discard what we believe would have proved a most salutary measure, in a manner which can hardly be taken otherwise than to indicate at least a coldness towards the establishment of customs calculated to exercise the judgment, and promote the general improvement of the people. We allude to a Bill for enabling parishes and townships to elect local officers and assess themselves for local purposes, which measure, though not absolutely rejected, was suffered to fail in a way that showed no friendliness to the principle." 297 dolus, 298 299 300 301 302 303 304 305 306 307 308 309 310
 Lord Francis Egerton  felt anxious to bespeak the attention of the House for a short time, in order that he might explain the grounds on which he was disposed to give his feeble but persevering support to the measure proposed by the officers of her Majesty's Government. He Celt it the more necessary to do this, because the measure appeared likely, as far as he could judge from recent events and from the discussions which had taken place in that House, to meet with more than the usual degree of concurrence, almost amounting to unanimity, which was accorded to other measures of a similar description, involving as it did a wide distinction from the accustomed principles of legislation; and besides, as it happened, that so many hon. Members differed from their usual course, their reasons, it was probable, would be somewhat various, and it was, therefore, the more necessary to state the grounds on which he proposed, though with unfeigned reluctance, to support Ministers. He gave his support on the ground which had been stated by the hon. Member who had spoken last—on the ground of the necessity of the case, without any party purpose or party view, and stopping only to look at the difficulties in which this country and
 324 325 326 327 328 329
 Lord F. Egerton  said, the hon. Gentle-
 345
 Lord John Russell  said, that the principle of the Bill would be debated on the question that the bill be committed.
 Mr. E. R. Rice  said, it was a great source of satisfaction to him that the great and extensive powers about to be conferred by the act upon the Governor-General, were not to be irresponsibly exercised, but were only to be called into action under the sanction of her Majesty's Government. The high-minded and patriotic nobleman who had accepted the difficult and delicate task of effecting a reconciliation between this country and the colony, concurred in that sentiment, and went out with the full and clear understanding that he was so to act. He, during the short time he had the honour of having a seat in that House, had often listened with great pleasure, and always with respectful attention, to the observations of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. It was, therefore, with great regret that he had heard from the right hon. Gentleman a threatened opposition to that part of the Bill which gave a principle of representation, and also a declaration that he should have preferred a pure unalloyed, unmitigated character of despotism, to the specious liberality of a constitutional form of Government. He believed, that accompanied with this restriction, the powers sought for by the Bill would be more cheerfully conceded. He hoped that the period during which it would be found necessary to exercise those powers would be of short duration, and that a state of things so injurious to the agricultural and commercial interests of both countries would not long continue to exist. He would, therefore, ask the right hon. Baronet and his friends not to look upon the measure as they would upon a Bill of an ordinary or party character, but arising out of a great question of national justice,
 346
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Gentleman was in error. The House was not taking two stages. They were doing precisely what must be done on every Bill. The question that the Bill be committed having been carried, he should then p u t the question as to what day, and then it would be competent for the hon. Member to speak upon the principle of the Bill.
 The Speaker  put the question that the bill be committed.
 Mr. Leader  said, that after the admirable speech made at the bar, it was almost unnecessary for any Member to make any observations in opposition to the Bill. He, however, felt called upon to address some remarks to the House in answer to the speeches just delivered. He could not help feeling, that it was a most painful and disagreeable subject to follow the hon. Baronet through the details of his speech; and he would at once remark as to the charge made by Mr. Roebuck with respect to the treatment of the people of Canada by the soldiers; that learned gentleman had good authority for asserting that great severities and injuries had been committed by the troops both at St. Denis and St. Charles, and he was justified in saying that they had been guilty of excesses in Canada as if they had been in an enemy's country; for they not only burnt the fortified houses, but they also sacked and burned other houses in those villages, The hon. Baronet said, that the
 330 Hear, hear! 331 Hear, hear. 332 333 334 335 336 337 338 339 340 341 en masse 342 343 344
 Mr. Hume  said, if so, they were in a condition always as if they were reading the Bill a second time. He would appeal to the House whether the case they had just heard at the Bar did not give a different colour to the whole transaction, and make out a case so favourable to the House of Assembly that they ought to pause before they proceeded with the Bill? He admitted it was imperative on the House to enforce obedience to the law in the colonies; but they ought not, therefore, to suspend the constitutional privileges of those colonies. From beginning to end, it appeared to him that the House of Assembly in Lower Canada had acted with great prudence and much patience. They had been invariably frustrated in their endeavours to obtain the best measures for the people by the Legislative Council, and if any punishment were to be inflicted, it ought to be inflicted on that body that had stayed the course of justice and reform. Mr. Roebuck might have made his case still stronger by showing that the House of Assembly had acted in accordance with the feelings of the people, because he might have shown, that during that period which the learned gentleman had so rapidly run over, the Governor had tried again and again, by appeals to the people, to resist the proceedings of the Assembly, but that at every new election the people sent back a greater number of members to support the popular cry, and to demand full justice. Under these circumstances, he entreated her Majesty's Ministers not to press on that which would be, in his opinion, so far from conciliation that it would tend to widen the breach. He should feel it his duty to give his opposition to the present Bill in every stage of its progress through that House and he should therefore then
 312
 Mr. Hume  did not understand that two stages of so important a measure would be taken on one night.
 Mr. Hume  had understood it was not to be committed until its principle had been debated.
 Sir George Grey  need scarcely say, that to the motion which had just been made to the House by the hon. Member for Kilkenny he should offer his most determined opposition. He was utterly at a loss to conceive how the hon. Member proposed to effect the object of which he appeared to approve—how he would send out a Governor with full powers, when he opposed the only measure which would give the necessary authority. He rejoiced that the House had listened to the learned Gentleman who had that night addressed them from the bar so ably and with such eloquence, for though there were not wanting in that Assembly many advocates who were not deficient in zeal, and whom they had heard on former occasions most fully state the wishes and represent the opinions of the Canadian people, yet he rejoiced, that the British Parliament, in accordance with the feelings which ever actuated a British assembly, had not interposed any obstacle to the hearing of a Gentleman claiming to be the authorised agent of the Canadian people, and possessed of such an authority, so far as a resolution of the House of Assembly could confer it. He was only anxious, then, to recal to the House the real circumstances connected with the Canadian controversy, to the state in which the Government and the House were then placed, and to the proceeding as connected with the Bill then before them. He would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through the remote periods of the Canadian history, neither would he recite the serious grievances which from time to time and from year to year they had heard so well stated by that hon. and learned Gentleman in his place as a Member of that House, nor the answers which had been called forth upon those occasions; but he must advert to one point in the earlier state of facts which had been referred to, and in which the hon. and learned Gentleman attempted to make the House believe, that the Canadian dispute related only to financial differences, and that the whole was merely a financial question. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, that all the Canadians required was, a control over the revenue; and in dealing with this point the hon. Gentleman had imputed great negligence and imbecility to her Majesty's
 313 314 315 316 317 318 319 320 321 322 323
 Mr. Pakington  was deeply impressed with the difficulty, as well as the great importance, of the subject under discussion, and nothing but a strong sense of duty could induce him to enter upon it at that moment. He was called upon to give his assent to a Bill, the object of which was the suspension of the constitution of Canada, and the providing a substitute for that constitution; but he would not accede to such a proposition without expressing his earnest and anxious hope—a hope that he had no doubt would be responded to by the country—that in the new arrangement which had been forced upon them they would not be unmindful of the interests of the British settlers in Canada. He might, perhaps, be told that there were no grounds for this wish—that all those parties could require would be conceded to them; but when he regarded the history of Canada for the last few years, and the tone which this debate had taken in the past week, he confessed he could not arrive at any such conclusion. The hon. Baronet, the Under Secretary
 347 348 349 "The allowance enjoyed by the Bishop is to be extinguished with his own life; and his strength having become unequal to the charge which lies upon him, an arrangement has been patched up—(for, in truth, I can hardly express it otherwise)—for the exigency, by which I have myself been consecrated as Bishop of Montreal, and am to divide with him the labours of his diocese, with the prospect, in the event of my surviving him, of assuming the episcopal superintendence of both provinces, without any addition to the emoluments at-
 350 "I have written to Lord Glenelg to state that, as matters actually stand, I must continue to administer the diocese as Bishop of Montreal, although I have the promise from his Lordship of succeeding to the see of Quebec, since I cannot pay the fees for my appointment till some emoluments shall be attached to it. The exigencies of the Church induced me to close with the arrangements under which I was consecrated as Bishop of Montreal, and I cannot repent having done so, for the most distressing inconveniences would already have been felt in the diocese had I not been invested with Episcopal powers. But, if nothing should be done to endow the see of Quebec, and the project should fail of erecting a new diocese in Upper Canada, it will be perfectly impossible for me, with my present means, to do any tolerable justice to the whole charge; and I fear sometimes that I shall be compelled to confine my visitations to the Lower Province. The Board may judge how an income of 890 l. 351 352
 Mr. P. Thomson  rose, in conformity with the notice which he had given, to move certain resolutions which had for their object to give effect to the decision of the Committee which sat on private business last year. Their object was, that a breviate of a Private Bill should be laid on the table of the House in a printed form, and that a certain time should be allowed between the printing and the second reading of the bill. He should move first, then, "That no Private Bill be read a second time until six days after a breviate thereof shall have been laid on the table of the House, and have been printed." He should then proceed to state in the resolution what such breviate should contain; namely, "a statement of the object of the bill, a summary of the
 354 355 356
 Mr. Hume  expressed his desire to know who was to draw the Bill, and who to examine it, because he feared that the present proposition would only give additional machinery in the conduct of the private business, without making it at all more clear. He was quite satisfied, that the evils which existed in the present system would be removed by having two, three, or five persons held responsible for the preparation of private bills, and that such measures should not be submitted to the superintendence of 120 Members, who attended at different times, and were, therefore, obliged to depend on some clerk or lawyer for information. Was the Speaker to examine all bills to see whether the breviate was a faithful one? For his part, he thought the second breviate more important than the first. He thought, if Committees were limited to a small number of responsible persons, their proceedings would be much more creditable to the House than those which now took place.
 Mr. Aglionby  begged to call the attention of the House to the evidence taken before a Committee which sat two Sessions ago, of which he was chairman, not as to public or private acts, but as to the wording of Acts of Parliament. He then understood the noble Lord, the Secretary of State to say, that though he did not wish, at that time, to originate a measure which would give a commission or a single officer the power of preparing Acts of Parliament, yet he would give the matter his best consideration. He was somewhat disappointed, that the noble Lord had not brought forward a measure on this subject. It was not his intention to oppose the resolutions, which he considered valuable so far as they went.
 Sir R. Peel  did not make the slightest objection to the trial of the experiment which was proposed. He presumed, that it was intended that a particular officer whose especial duty it should be to prepare a breviate should be appointed, and that it should not be left to the parties who were the authors of the private Bill. He presumed, also, that the officer selected would be a man of experience and high character. But, at the same time, that he felt perfectly confident that the instructions which such an officer would receive would be such as
 357
 Lord G. Somerset  thought, that the breviate, if introduced on the report, would be a better safeguard against objectionable provisions than if it were limited to the second reading.
 Mr. S. Lefevre  said, that every one acquainted with the manner of conducting the private business in that House must be aware that exaggerated statements were often put into Members' hands by the promoters of private bills. But a breviate, drawn up by an experienced officer, would at once inform the House of the nature and character of the proposed measure. He felt that they had cast great responsibility on the officer who was to prepare this document, and who ought to be a man of great experience and skill; but when he knew the matter was placed in the hands of the Speaker he felt perfectly satisfied.
 The Speaker  said: As the House has imposed on me a heavy and responsible duty, I think it right they should clearly understand the view I take of the question. If a breviate, such as that expressed in the resolutions, were to be proposed, pointing out any change which private bills might effect in, the general law of the country, it-was obvious that no such instrument could be introduced, unless it was proposed by a responsible person, and one well versed in the law. It appears to me, that in carrying into effect this experiment, which is in entire accordance with my own opinion, there will be great difficulty in getting a person qualified for the duty, because a qualified person will be loath to undertake it for one Session. All I can say is, that having stated the obstacle which appears
 358
 Sir W. Molesworth  said, although he felt it his duty to vote against the further progress of the Bill then under the consideration of the House, because it would suspend the constitution of a free people, yet he offered no objection to what he understood was the most important feature of the Ministerial measure, namely, that there shall be sent to Canada a person in whom confidence could be placed; whose duty it would be to administer the affairs of the province, and to reduce the people to contented allegiance. It was both a dangerous and a delicate thing to express a decided opinion as to the fitness of any individual for so difficult a task as that of Governor of this insurgent province. He did not, however, hesitate to state his humble, though decided, approbation of the choice of her Majesty's Ministers. If there were a nobleman in this country for energy, decision of character, manly and liberal sentiments, better fitted than another for so arduous a task, that nobleman was the Earl of Durham. Reluctant as he was to pin his faith on any individual, still he felt confident that Lord Durham, if left to the unfettered exercise of his judgment, would accomplish the object of his mission. Understanding, as he did, that the purposes for which Lord Durham was deputed to Canada were to restore peace and tranquillity, to recal the revolted subjects of the empire to their allegiance, to enforce in every quarter the majesty of the laws, to sustain the honour and dignity of this country—best sustained by acts of grace and mercy; and, lastly, to devise along with the delegates of the people what form of free constitution would be best suited to the province, and in what respect the existing institutions of the country ought to be changed—these undoubtedly were most onerous duties, requiring for their performance the soundest judgment and discretion, and every requisite power should in justice be given to the Governor who took upon himself so weighty a responsibility. At the same time, for the exercise of his delegated authority, the Governor should be most
 359 360 361 362 l. l. l. 363 l. l. l. 364 l. 365 366 l. s. d. 367 l. Morning Chronicle 368 369 370 371 l. 372 "Had we, on our first arrival," he said, "declared that the question of an Elective Council was absolutely a forbidden one, we should have failed,  in limine in extenso; 373 374 "In the course of these protracted disputes, too, it has happened that the Assembly, composed almost exclusively of French Canadians, have constantly figured as the asserters of popular rights, and as the advocates of liberal institutions, whilst the Councils in which the English interest prevails have, on the other hand, been made to appear as the supporters of arbitrary power, and of antiquated political doctrines; and to this alone we are persuaded the fact is to be attributed that the majority of settlers from the United States have hitherto rather sided with the French than the English party. The Representatives of Stanstead or Misissquoi have not been sent to Parliament to defend the feudal system, to protect the
 375 "If these recommendations are satisfied by the appointment of a large number of new Councillors, none of them dependent on the Government for their income, but all living by their own means, and possessing property engaged in pursuits connected with the general interests of the country, we have to report that the advice of the Committee has been followed. But if, on the other hand, their words be taken to mean that a change ought to have been made in the political character of the body, we can only repeat what we observed in paragraph four of our preceding report on the Council itself—that there does not appear to have been an alteration effected in that respect." 376 377 "In Canada (he said) we have been plagued with an old French system of government; that is to say, a Government in which the people have no concern whatever. Everything must proceed from the city of Quebec and the city of Montreal, and persons must come to the city of Quebec and the city of Montreal to do everything, instead of being able to do for themselves in their own localities. In the United States they have the English system, by which every locality has certain powers of regulating its own concerns, by which means they regulate them cheaper and much better; whereas, with us a man must make a journey to Quebec, he must go to a great expense, he must bow to this man and to that man, and rap at this door and rap at that door, and spend days and weeks to effect a little improvement in a road, or something of that kind of common convenience to a district, whereas all that is done in the United States, without going out of his own small district." 378 379 380 381 382 383 384 385 386 387
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, that although he was quite aware it would not be in his power to engage for any length the attention of the House, still he was extremely anxious to state shortly the grounds upon which it was his intention to support the Bill now under the consideration of the House. During the last Session of Parliament, when the resolutions relating to Canada were brought forward by the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, he had felt it to be his duty to vote with the minority who had opposed those resolutions—a proof that he did not participate in the views and feelings of the noble Lord upon that or on the present occasion. He had done so, because he believed and anticipated that those resolutions would, when known in the colony, throw into rebellion and revolt the people whose peaceable demeanour had frequently been the subject of compliment and respect. And after looking at the events which had since occurred, he had never ceased to rejoice at the part he had on that occasion taken, because, humble as his single vote was, if it had been in the majority with the noble Lord, he should have felt himself to be a participator in the responsibility for the awful consequences which had ensued. In coming to a decision upon the present question he had kept in view but a simple guide, and that was, to return to that course of policy which would be likely to prevent the shedding of blood, to restore tranquillity, and to give to the people of Canada in a very short time the full enjoyment of their rights, and he could not conceive any project more likely to effect this object than that which had been proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department. The constitution of 1791 was already virtually suspended; the House of Assembly had itself abrogated its functions, and it therefore could not be expected that of its own will it would soon meet for the purpose of resuming those functions to the benefit and advantage of the Canadian people. And then came the question whether there should be martial law, an attempt to establish a civil government, or au union with
 388 389 390 391 ex officio 392
 Mr. W. Williams  regretted that he felt himself called upon to oppose that Bill, but he did so upon the ground that it contained an enactment which he thought would tend to aggravate the already existing feeling of discontent amongst the people of Canada. He considered that the resolution to take the public money of the province, contrary to the express will of the House of Assembly, was a great violation of the rights of the colonists, but he considered the Act suspending the constitution a still greater violation of their rights. He would beg the House to bear in mind the statement made by Lord North in 1775, when he brought his celebrated motion before the House. He then stated, that disaffection only existed in one of the thirteen provinces. But what was the result? No sooner was the intelligence received in America than the whole of the colonies there broke out into open rebellion, and in a very short time after, the battle of Lexington was fought. He, moreover, had heard no real reason to justify the suspension of the Constitution. His opinion of such a proceeding was, that it would tend to pro-
 393
 Mr. E. L. Bulwer  thanked the Government as an Englishman (feeling, as he did, a warm desire for the honour and the power of England paramount to all party considerations) for their determination to uphold the integrity of the empire, and the maintenance of the laws. He thanked them scarcely less, as a friend to a liberal and popular policy, for their declared resolution to redress the grievances of Canada, and to restore to her, as speedily as possible, the blessings of a free constitution. The Government had been assailed by a variety of arguments, as singular and incongruous as any that the invention of an opposition ever conceived. The hon. Member for Droitwich, who spoke with
 394 395 396 caput mortuum 397 No, no! Speaker: 398 399
 Mr. Grote  said, that he scarcely expected in a speech on the subject of a Bill for making a temporary provision for the Government of Lower Canada, to have heard a general and an unmeasured denunciation dealt out by the hon. Member for Lincoln against what he had been pleased to call a small body of Radicals. He could not help thinking, that the occasion taken for making that denunciation was as unseasonable as the tone of it was, in his opinion, undeserved, and improperly harsh and severe; and he also thought, that when the hon. Gentleman condescended to ridicule his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, for doing what he must have known his hon. Friend had never done in his life—that was, to call himself a philosophical Radical; the hon. Gentleman might have recollected that the words "philosophical Radical" which he had applied to his hon. Friend, were at least as respectable as the terms "literary Whig," which might be applied to other Gentlemen in this House. He would now pass to the subject immediately before the House, and he was very sorry indeed that he could not concur in those unmeasured expressions of gratitude in which the hon. Member for Lincoln had indulged towards
 400 401 402 403 404 405 406
 Sir E. B. Sugden  had listened with much attention to the grounds upon which the arguments against the measure were founded, and more particularly to the arguments urged by Mr. Roebuck at their bar, because that gentleman was considered to speak the sentiments of the House of Assembly, and was, moreover, supposed to be better informed on the subject than any other Gentleman likely to address the House. He could sincerely say, that he thus listened with a view to information, and not at all for the purpose of finding topics for cavil. It occasioned him, then, great surprise to find that in the speech made at the bar many of the most material features of the case were kept out of view—a circumstance which he must suppose to arise from the fact that Mr. Roebuck either regarded those topics as of no importance, or that he considered those which were the most material as so exceedingly important that he felt himself incapable of entering into that part of the subject. In any observations which he should have then to make, he begged at the outset to declare that he desired to abstain from a single word calculated to give pain to the French Canadians; he should rest no argument that he intended to submit to the House upon any such ground as the origin of any portion of the colonists, for he most strongly felt that no such ground should enter into the discussion, and for this, amongst other reasons, that he remembered it was for a particular purpose, that the two colonies were kept distinct. Whatever distinctions arose from origin, or from measures of legislation, or from any other cause, he wished to consider French Canadians precisely in the same light as British Canadians, and in every respect as
 407 l. l. 408 409 410 411 412 413 414
 Mr. Labouchere  assured the House, that he did not rise at that late period of the evening to prolong the discussion on this measure; but as he had taken part in
 415 416 flagrante bello 417 418 419
 Mr. Gladstone  thought it nothing more than a debt of justice to the hon. Member for the City of London to acknowledge the candour and fairness with which the hon. Member had stated both now and formerly the strong opinions which he entertained on this question, and the consistency with which he had urged them both in good and in ill fortune. When a month ago the intelligence received from Canada was, so far as regarded the success of the British arms, of an equivocal character, the hon. Member calmly and deliberately avowed it to be his opinion that we ought to resort to a separation from Canada as the best mode of putting an end to the differences between us; and now, when the news was of a very different
 420 421 422 "Quid dignum tanto tulit hic promissor hiatu?" 423 lex stelionati. 424 425 l l. 426 ex-officio "Judging from recent events, in the little probability, even if evidence of sufficient weight could be procured to arraign the offenders, of a jury taken from the district of Montreal finding bills and convicting on them." "That it is the opinion of this meeting, that
 427 l. l. "Their monopolist happened to be one of the richest men in the world. By his immense capital, primarily employed not for their benefit but his own, they were enabled to proceed
 428 429 "Each year of his long reign has been marked by new favours bestowed upon the country. Compare our present happy situation with that of our fathers on the eve of the day when George 3rd became their legitimate monarch. Under the French Government (internally and externally arbitrary and oppressive) the interests of this country had
 430 habeas corpus 431 432 Hume 433 434 data 435 436 437 438 439 "Concidunt venti, fugiuntque nubes." 440
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt it impossible to complain of any part of the argument of the hon. Member who had just sat down, without bearing testimony, at the same time, to the ability which was displayed in other parts of that speech; but he must also take leave to say, that while a speech might be able, at the same time it might deal unfairly with the question under discussion; it appeared to him that the tendency of the speech of the hon. Gentleman, and of the speeches of other hon. Gentlemen opposite was to induce hon. Gentlemen from that (the Ministerial) side of the House to pass over to the relief of that small minority to which the hon. Gentleman had adverted. The hon. Gentleman had, under a false and mistaken view of consistency, called upon Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House to cooperate with him, because they had taken a particular line during the progress of the Coercion Bill for Ireland, in order, that by the league, the hon. Gentleman might increase the numbers of his minority. He did not say it was the intention, but it certainly was the tendency of the hon. Gentleman's speech to produce such a result. He would take the next portion of the speech, that which contained charges against her Majesty's Government. He would say that there was no portion of her Majesty's Go-
 441 442 443 444 445 446
 Sir R. Peel  said, he gave, on a former night, his cordial and unhesitating support to the Address brought in by the Government, pledging the House to the support of her Majesty, in her attempt (he hoped a successful one) to put an end to the revolt in the colony of Canada. He was now called upon by her Majesty's Government to take into consideration a measure of totally a different nature—a measure for the suspension of the constitution and privileges of the people of an important province. It was his intention also, after mature reflection, but yet with great reluctance, to give his support to the proposition then under the consideration of the House. He gave his support to that proposition, because he found no safe alternative to which he could resort. If he had any doubt of the justifiableness of the proceeding—if he saw any other practicable mode of arranging the differences which had unhappily arisen between this country and her colonies—he should be induced to withhold his assent from the present Bill. But he considered that it was justified, in point of equity, by the conduct of the House of Assembly of Lower Canada, and he saw in point of prudence no other course, which, under the circumstances, could be pursued. He should deeply regret if their justification before the House and the world rested on a minute inquiry into the acts and proceedings of the Canadian House of Assembly. It rested on the simple, plain, and intelligible ground on which he had given his support to the resolutions of last year. Five years had now elapsed since the popular Assembly of Lower Canada had wholly refused to make any provision for the carrying on of the civil government of the colony. Five years had now elapsed since the judges, the civil officers and public functionaries had been left without that provision, for the affording of which the faith and honour of the Government
 447 448 bona fide 449 450 451 452 453 454 455 456 457 458 459 460 461 462
 Lord John Russell  said, that with respect to the real subject of debate, namely, whether the principle of this Bill should be affirmed by the House or not, so much had already been said on all sides of the House, and with such very great ability, and they had placed the subject in such various lights, that it made it unnecessary for him to enter much, if at all, into the discussion. But in the course of the debate, there had been mixed up so many other topics with reference to what on a former occasion he had said in the House, and so much censure had been passed on the conduct of the Government, that he felt that he could not allow the debate to close without some reference to these topics. And, first, with respect to the measure before the House. He would ask, had those most opposed to it suggested any rational plan as an alternative? Admitting, for the sake of argument, that the Legislative Council had been wholly in fault, and that the House of Assembly was wholly blameless, yet they had by general confession a House of Assembly and a Legislative Council so constituted that the result was the stoppage of all legislation, the entire refusal of the supplies necessary to carry on the Government, and the total absence of those laws which were necessary to the well-being of the community. In this state of things, an hon. Gentleman had made a proposition which seemed to him nothing more than this, namely, that the House of Assembly should be brought together again. There was, however, one part of the plan to which all parties were
 463 464 R. Peel: R. Peel 465 466 467 468 469
 Lord John Russell  moved that the
 472
 Mr. Wakley , having a motion on the paper for that day for a Select Committee to inquire into the constitution of a society in Glasgow, under the title of the "Association of Operative Cotton Spinners of Glasgow and its neighbourhood," could not agree to the motion of the noble Lord unless he had a pledge that the men lately sentenced to transportation should not be sent out of the country before that motion came on.
 Lord John Russell  would not give a pledge, but he did not think it possible that these men could leave the country before the expiration of a week.
 Mr. James  said, that although he agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury that the class from whom the petition emanated were not properly represented in that House, he thought the wording of the petition incautious and disrespectful.
 Mr. Ellice  assured the House that he approached the consideration of the subject with great reluctance and difficulty. But in consequence of what had passed during a former debate, and of the apprehension that serious consequences might ensue from any great division in that House on any part of the bill lending to misapprehension in Canada with respect to the feeling of the people of England on the subject, he thought it his duty to offer to the consideration of her Majesty's Government whether it might not be possible, looking at the advantage of unanimity, so to alter the preamble of the Bill as to prevent any misunderstanding between the two great parties in the House. The hon. Gentlemen opposite might take that statement as they pleased. If he had only party objects in view, he should never
 485 Hear, hear! 486 487 488 489 490 491 492 in toto 493 494 495
 Mr. Ellice  explained. After hearing the right hon. Baronet's Speech, he did not perceive any essential difference in principle between him and the proposers of this Bill. The right hon. Baronet proposed the concession to the Governor of Canada of the utmost latitude of powers for the carrying of the provisions of the Bill into effect. The particular plan proposed by the Government for accomplishing the objects which were proposed in this Bill was not suggested as imperative upon the House. He believed that the whole House were agreed that Canada could not be governed except upon the representative principle. Government entertained no intention hostile to the preservation of that principle in Canada. With regard to the precise nature of the powers to be conceded to Lord Durham, it was necessary that the views of all parties in that House should be ascertained; but it appeared to him, that much of the discussion suggested by the right hon. Baronet was upon very unimportant subjects.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that as he concluded from what the noble Lord had said, that there would be no division to-night, and that as the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him, had recommended to the House to discuss the question upon its merits, he would ask the indulgence of the House for a few moments to make a few observations upon the question; and he felt that this was more particularly necessary from the fact, that he did not share in the opinions of either of the two great parties in the State; and he was sorry to observe, that if any Member ventured upon this course, he had little chance of being tolerated in that House. He assured the House, however, that he did not rise to vituperate any party, neither her Majesty's Ministers nor their predecessors; that he had no charge of high crimes and misdemeanours to bring against them; that his simple charge against them was, that they regulated the policy of this country towards the colonies as it appeared a very large proportion of the country desired to regulate its policy. What he meant was, that there were distinct principles on which a colonial connexion might be maintained with the mother country, and that the majority of persons who had influence and authority in this country maintained, that one which the Government of this country had acted upon, and which was, that the government of a people in a distant country was a source of power and wealth to this country, and that it was advisable to make great sacrifices and incur great expense in order to maintain what was then termed the integrity of the empire.
 519 520 521 522 523 524 525
 Mr. Reddington  said, it was with considerable reluctance he felt it his duty to give a vote upon this occasion in favour of a measure which he could not but admit trenched deeply on the constitutional liberty of a free people. As an Irish Member, he begged to deny the justice of the parallel which had been so frequently drawn during the debates on this question, between Ireland and Canada. For a long period Ireland had been afflicted with grievances of an extraordinary magnitude. But the people of Ireland had taken peaceable and constitutional means for the redress of those grievances; and he should blush for his countrymen had they broken out into such disloyal proceedings as the Canadians had unfortunately been induced to follow. With reference to the argument of the hon. Member for Bridport, that all our colonies should be emancipated, although of a very extreme nature, it was at all events candid and straightforward, and deserved fair consideration. Undoubtedly in the vicissitudes of human affairs, it was but natural that colonies should rise in power and vigour, as the mother country decayed, and, in the maturity of their strength, might be disposed to throw off the yoke, as they no longer needed the protection of the country whose supremacy, in earlier times, they did not dispute. But when a comparison was raised between the American war of independence and the present contest in Canada, let it be borne in mind that while the Americans struggled against the tyranny of the mother country, and had just and strong ground of complaint, the Canadians had rebelled against its authority without such powerful justification. In conclusion he must state, that he gave his support to the Ministerial measure, in the earnest hope that it would be effectually the means of putting an end to those unhappy disputes in Canada, and prevent the further effusion of human blood.
 Colonel Evans  said, that, representing, as he did, a large constituency, he wished to say a very few words on the question before the House, before they went into committee on the Bill. It was well known that Mr. Roebuck had acted not only as the agent of the Canadians, but that that learned gentleman had also taken the
 531 532 533 534
 Mr. Borthwick  did not intend at that late hour to go into a discussion of the merits of the Bill. The question before them was whether they should commit the Bill  pro forma 539 Vindicator 540
 Lord John Russell : Perhaps the House will allow me to say a few words. The hon. Member, who has just spoken, is quite correct in supposing that after the power-
 518
 Lord John Russell : I feel it incumbent upon me to address a few words to the House after the speech of my right hon. Friend. I must say, at the commencement of my observations, in consequence of some
 496 497 498 499 500 501
 Lord John Russell , in moving that the Speaker leave the Chair, for the purpose of going into Committee on the Canada Bill, observed, that on going over the Bill he discovered a great number of verbal amendments to be necessary; and it was essential that they should commit the Bill, in order to give an opportunity to make those amendments. Of course it was more convenient that the Bill should be discussed in the amended form, if there was no objection to the principle involved in the motion for going into Committee. He should, therefore, propose that they go into Committee  pro forma
 Mr. A. White  agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Wynn) that this petition ought to be withdrawn. He was as much a friend to the working classes as any Member of that House, and he had used as strenuous endeavours to obtain household suffrage; but he thought that every petition to that House ought to be worded in respectful language.
 Mr. C. Buller  was not going to trespass on the attention of the House at any length, nor to enter into a subject fully on which many other Members had already spoken. He hoped the House would do him the justice to believe that it was with extreme reluctance that he had given his assent to the Bill under consideration. In considering the present matter, he believed that it was not for the House to inquire into by-gone transactions, or by whose neglect it was, that those measures had been omitted to be taken which the necessities of the case required; but their business was, in a wise and honest manner, to take the best means now of relieving the colony from its present position. Feeling this, he had given his support to the measure. It was considered by some that all that was harsh towards the people was to be sanctioned in the Act before the House, but his firm belief was, that such was not the fact, but that its ultimate object was to establish a good government for the colony on the best and soundest basis. It was, therefore, that he hailed the passage in the preamble in the Bill, which was to be made the subject of the amendment with the sincerest satisfaction. The Government in the present case had taken a most wise course in laying on the table the instructions which were given to Lord Dulham, and by that means had detailed the plan at length which they intended to adopt, in order that the governor—and he hoped he might speak of him as the future pacificator in Canada—might receive lull instructions, and that a better course, if possible, might be
 517
 Mr. D. Callaghan  said, that the constituency which he represented felt much sympathy for the sufferings of the Canadian people. On the occasion when the resolutions of the noble Lord were before the House, he did not vote for them, as he had not been able to make up his mind on the subject. Those resolutions appeared to be the cause of what had since occurred. He did not think that there was a case sufficient to justify a suspension of the Constitution. An attempt was made to draw a comparison between Ireland and Canada, but there was this difference, that, whilst successive Administrations had refused to acknowledge the grievances of Ireland, those of Canada had not only been acknowledged, but attempts had been made to redress them. He was not the advocate of armed resistance, and deeply regretted what had taken place. The revolt appeared to have been put down, and he did not think that there was a sufficient case to justify him in supporting
 541
 Mr. Baines , notwithstanding the indisposition he always felt to occupy the time of the House, could not satisfy himself, on a subject like this, involving the interests of millions of human beings at home and in our colonies, by giving a silent vote. He felt it due to the Government to say, that they had done themselves honour by declaring, that they would govern Canada on no other principles than those of constitutional liberty. An important crisis had now arisen in the colonial history of this country. If that crisis were used wisely, the melancholy events which had recently occurred in Canada might he retrieved, while, if wisdom did not direct the councils and the legislation of this country, we might have again to pass through scenes similar to those which took place between the years 1774 and 1782, both in North America and in England during the struggle for American independence. It appeared from the preamble of the Bill introduced into this House by his noble Friend, the Secretary for the Home Department, that the House was to be called on to declare, that it was expedient that the province of Lower Canada should be permanently governed under the dominion of Great Britain. To that proposition he was not prepared to give his assent; and in order to arrive at a just conclusion on this point, it was proper to inquire what was the cost of governing Canada as a dependency on this country, and what the gain we derived from its possession? As to the cost, it appeared from the financial statements laid before this House, that it amounted to the sum of from five to six hundred thousand a-year. The Paymaster of her Majesty's forces said to 600,000 l. l. l. 511 "With respect to Canada (including our other possessions on the continent of North America) no case can be made out to show, that we should not have every commercial advantage we are supposed now to have if it were made an independent state. Neither our manufacturers, foreign commerce, nor shipping would be injured by such a measure. On the other hand, what has the nation lost by Canada? Fifty or sixty millions have already been expended, the annual charge on the British Treasury is full 600,000 l. l. l. 512 513 514
 Mr. G. F. Young  was of opinion that the practical speech of the hon. Member for Coventry, must have produced a very strong impression on the House. That
 509 510
 Mr. Warburton  rose to oppose the motion, because he was anxious to state his views in support of the plan which he had on a former night submitted. As he had twice addressed the House on this subject, he felt bound to give way to those who might wish to deliver their opinions on the principle of
 477 l. 478 479 480 481 482 l. l. 483 484
 The Speaker —Will the hon. Member divide?
 The Speaker  begged to draw Mr. Wakley's attention to one of the expressions contained in the petition. The petitioners spoke of a rabble of Lords, but they would not say that there was a rabble in the House of Commons. The exception was an inference that they intended to say that there was a rabble in the other House.
 The Speaker  said, that the House certainly could not receive a petition which contained language disrespectful to the other House.
 Mr. Hutton  said, that the grievances of Canada had excited the strongest degree of sympathy in Ireland, because the Irish people were themselves suffering from grievances as serious. Speaking of the men who were immediately connected with, and who stood foremost in, the present struggle, he must say, that he was of opinion that Mr. Papineau was not a man of sufficient forbearance, or of sufficient firmness of determination or constitutional knowledge, to be able to extricate the people from the difficulties to which he had been instrumental in conducting them. He could not think that the time for the separation of the colony from this country
 516
 Mr. Slaney  said, that it was his misfortune to differ in opinion on this subject from those with whom he usually voted, and he most earnestly desired, that before any final determination should be arrived at, the whole of the measure, as well as the state of the colony, should be inquired into. Looking at the mode in which the colony had been treated, and the line of conduct which they had pursued, he was far from thinking that there were not many circumstances which tended to excuse the conduct of the Canadians in the present revolt. From the year 1771 to 1831 the whole history of the colony tended to show that its inhabitants had strictly followed the example set to them by the mother country. He did not deny that many of the claims which were made were unreasonable, and could not be granted; but there were others which were just. Instead of granting these latter claims, however, the consideration of them had been delayed, and no answer was given, and he must say, that he thought that it was by these means that the people were thrown into a position, by their being open to be led by bad advisers, that had induced the present unhappy revolt. Instead of listening to the advice of Mr. Roebuck, who had been their supporter, they had submitted to be led by others, and their differences with England had been increased and aggravated. Considering these circumstances, he must confess that his opinion was, that the greatest allowance should be made for them. No one could view the present state of the colony without feelings of the
 515
 Mr. Wakley  had heard with some surprise the soft and bland tones of the great warrior who had just spoken, and as he was his representative in that House, he would make one or two remarks in reference to what had fallen from that gallant General. He, in the first place, felt himself bound to state, that he represented a larger proportion of this metropolis than the gallant General, and the conduct of the Radical party in this assembly had given, so far as he had been able to learn, no dissatisfaction to his constituents. He spoke only from the information which he himself had acquired from his intimate connexion with his constituents. It could not be supposed that he would stand there in opposition to their will, when it was recollected that his position in that House was a very peculiar one, inasmuch as he considered himself pledged to resign his seat if ever he should be called on by a
 535 Laughter. Oh, oh! 536 537 538
 Mr. Wakley  would not withdraw the petition. He regretted that the expressions objected to had been inserted; but he felt, at the same time, that it was his duty to present it. Petitions had been presented to the other House, charging Members of the House of Commons with violating their oaths in the vote which they gave on the Irish Church question. Under these circumstances, he hoped that the House would show that they were not thin skinned enough to reject a petition because it contained allusions to persons who were not Members of that House. It ought to be borne in mind that the property qualification had excluded from that House those who represented the feelings and opinions of this class of petitioners.
 Mr. Wakley  asked in what manner petitioners were to express their sentiments if that House chose to attach innuendoes to their expressions—which they disclaimed—as an excuse for rejecting their petitions. In this case the petitioners explicitly stated that they did not say there was a rabble in this House—but that there was a rabble of Lords. And he said the same thing—there was a rabble of every class of society. He had already expressed his regret that these expressions were in the petition, but he did not think they should be made the ground for not receiving it. If, however, the motion for excluding it was persevered in, he should divide the House. The working classes ought to be more effectually represented in that House. At present they were only indirectly represented. Till they were allowed to exercise the Parliamentary franchise, he should look with much calmness upon such expressions.
 Mr. Wakley  thought both hon. Gentlemen by far too captious, for the petition did not speak of a rabble in the House of Lords, but of a rabble of Lords. 475
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that he was placed in a very peculiar situation. He wished to discharge his duty to those persons who had committed their interests to his care. The object of the petition was to obtain a remission of the sentence on the five men, whom the petitioners believed to have been unjustly sentenced at Edinburgh: He took it that they had that one object in view, and that object only—that it was not their intention to insult the House, or to use any expressions offensive to the feelings of its Members. Considering they had that sole and unadulterated object in view, he thought it better to withdraw the petition to-day, and would certainly do so, with the permission of the House He would then write to the chairman of the meeting, at which the petition was agreed to, and if the petitioners were still of opinion that it ought to be presented, he should feel it to be his duty to offer it again to the House, and would certainly press the question to a division. He was happy to say that there was now no obstacle in this House to the presentation of petitions. When he first had the honour of a seat, however, a very great difficulty existed in this respect, and Members had frequently to wait for five or six weeks together, without an opportunity being afforded for laying petitions on the table, in consequence of the discussions which took place on petitions.
 Mr. Wakley  had a petition to present from the great Radical Association of London. There was a prayer to this petition, as of course there was to all petitions; but as the petitioners had requested him to move that it be read by the clerk, he hoped the House would have no objection to that being done. 474
 Mr. Gillon  said, he saw so much evil to forbode from this measure, so gloomy a perspective of increasing dissatisfaction in the breasts of the colonists, of slumbering hatred, which would at a future time again manifest itself in open revolt, and, above all, so gross a violation of the character for justice which this country ought to maintain, that he felt bound to express his strong opinion against the principle of the Bill. As had been eloquently stated by a noble and learned Lord in another place, the sacrifice of this, or of all our colonies, was a slight consideration when compared with the national character for justice, those great principles of eternal justice which had been so often alluded to, but which, he feared, we were now about to depart from by our acts. It was monstrous to concede to our colonies a privilege one year, and deprive them of it the moment they sought to exercise it. The conduct of a few ill-advised individuals in no way
 526 527 528 529 animus 530
 Mr. Guest  objected to the reception of the petition, on the ground that it contained the following language disrespectful to the House—"That your petitioners frequently find unworthy imputations cast upon the working classes, who are sometimes designated as a rabble. That your petitioners do not deny that there is a rabble of the trades, as there is a rabble of the Lords, and a rabble of the aristocracy, but they do not say that there is a rabble in your honourable House."
 Mr. Guest  said, that the petition was not calculated to serve the object which it had in view.
 Mr. Guest  put it to the hon. Member for Finsbury, whether he would not withdraw his petition.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it was his intention, notwithstanding what he had just heard, steadily to adhere to the course which he had on a previous occasion stated his intention to pursue, because he was satisfied of the justice and the reasonableness of the propositions he had made. If he had entertained a doubt upon the subject (which he did not) before the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Ellice), who from personal and local knowledge was well qualified to form an opinion of the interests of Canada and of the real nature of the Canadian question, and who this night had made a speech confirming in every respect the impressions which he (Sir R. Peel) had formed of the right hon. Gentleman's competence to judge in the matter, that doubt was removed, for the right hon. Gentleman had (he would not say it was
 502 503 504 505 506 507 508
 Mr. Williams Wynn  would be sorry to object to the reception of any petition; but there was no grievance which might not be complained of in courteous and decent terms. Whether the language used in the petition was disrespectful to this or to the other House of Parliament, they were equally bound to reject it. He was sorry the hon. Member thought fit to divide the House. He thought it would be better to withdraw the petition.
 Sir William Somerville  would trespass
 542
 Lord Dungannon (late Mr. A. Trevor)  thought it right that the country should know that the present Government were not able to carry on their measures without falling back upon the support of the right hon. Baronet. They had been forced to look for support to that side of the House, for a storm was passing over their heads which they would find it difficult to dispel. They were now beginning to feel the effect of those principles to which they had too long given encouragement. The hon. Member for Finsbury Lad made a most extraordinary declaration—that a revolt was justifiable provided only it was successful. There were times when no man would have dared to avow such a doctrine in that House. If the present. Government were to continue in office to whom were they to look for support? They would owe that support altogether to the right hon. Baronet and those who with him, acted on principle, and not party spirit. Were the right hon. Baronet occupying a seat on the opposite benches how different would be the conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite! Would they give that support to him which they were glad to receive from him now? They had brought forward a measure which they could only carry by the support of that (the Opposition) side of the House. The country would now see to whom its confidence was to be given. They would see whether they were to continue to look to the present ministry, or to those who, in times of difficulty and danger, were able to guide the vessel of the State. The present Government had to thank themselves for the difficulties in which they were at present placed. There never was a Government in a more contemptible position. He repeated there never was a Government equally contemptible. Without the support they received from that side of the House, they would not be able to hold office for a single day. The country would see that confidence was only to be placed in those who were the friends of peace and good order. For his part, he would pursue the course adopted by the right hon. Baronet, in whom he had the most implicit confidence, and by whose aid alone the circumstances that had arisen could be brought to a happy conclusion.
 Viscount Sandon  was understood to object to Ministers dictating to the House to adopt one particular mode out of many for the settlement of the disturbed state of affairs in Canada, more especially as the mode suggested appeared to him to be perhaps the very worst they could have selected. He could not understand the nature of the cumbrous and imperfect machinery, by the aid of which Ministers propose to carry their intentions into effect—machinery involving the re-construction of the elective franchise in Canada and the establishment of new modes of return, as well as of the trial of the validity of those elections; and all this in a country which was just emerging from rebellion. It was quite unfair to call on the House beforehand to give its sanction to such a project. He, therefore, would support, with cordiality, the amendments of the right hon. Baronet.
 Mr. Ellice  did not rise to answer the right hon. Baronet, but to declare to his noble Friend how certain he felt that his noble Friend's concession, in withdrawing that part of the preamble of the Bill to which the right hon. Baronet objected, would produce a most beneficial effect, by the almost unanimous vote on the question that would be the result. As he had stated last night, he saw no difficulty in reconciling this concession with the perfect preservation of the principles of the Bill. Both parties agreed that to the noble Earl to whom was to be intrusted the arduous task of reconciling the differences in Lower Canada, and establishing a free and liberal Government, the fullest means of obtaining the best information as to the general feelings and wishes of the people of the colony should be allowed. Knowing that there was that agreement on the subject between the two parties, he had anticipated that the question might be determined without having recourse to any division. In the opinions
 559 560 561 562 563
 Lord Stanley  said, that before the House went into the consideration of the next clause, he wished to make some objections to its provisions, which were not of a nature so purely verbal and technical as that which had been offered to the section last before the House, and to which he sincerely hoped the Government would be induced to accede. On looking at the Bill as last printed, with reference to the powers given to the Governor-general (it was all very well to talk of the Council, as a matter of courtesy, but in reality everything rested with the Governor, who was dictator) he thought that they were of a nature far too large and comprehensive. The Council was, no doubt, a very decent appanage to pass the laws of the Governor in Canada, but it occurred to him that, as to the House of Assembly, there were other parts of the constitution which should not have been altered by this temporary Act. He had been induced to bring forward this objection because the Bill gave to the Governor
 589 590
 Mr. Edward Ellice  agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that it would be unwise to give to the Governor-general of Canada any power to repeal the Acts of the British Parliament, more especially if the laws which he should make were only to remain in force for the three or four years during which he should remain in authority; but he entertained some doubts on the Clause of the Bill now before the House, and thought that care must be taken that, in imposing restrictions on the authority of the Governor, the interests of the country should not be permitted to suffer. The legislation of the colony had hitherto been of a somewhat temporary nature, as, for instance, the Legislative Council had passed a Bill for the registration of deeds under the Tenure Act; but it was for a limited period only, and would shortly expire; and the amend-
 593 594
 Lord John Russell  suggested the introduction of the word "special," in lieu of the word "legislative."
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was the intention of the Government, if this bill were passed into a law, to enable the lieutenant-governor for the time being to use the powers vested by this bill in the governor. There might be many measures which it would be necessary to take at once in order to secure the peace of the province, and which might render it inexpedient to delay the exercise by the lieutenant-governor of the powers with which he would be invested till the arrival of Lord Durham.
 Lord John Russell  said: I wish to address some observations to the House with respect to the course we mean to pursue relative to this Bill. I stated yesterday my view of the case, in reference to what fell from my right hon. Friend the Member for Coventry; and I certainly said, that I should be prepared this day, after consultation with my colleagues, to state the mode in which the Government meant to proceed with respect to the Bill, and the amendments proposed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Tamworth. Accordingly, Sir, the whole subject has been considered by her Majesty's servants, and I have now to state their opinion of the manner in which we ought to proceed on this Bill. It was the anxious wish of her Majesty's Government that Parliament might have the opportunity of considering the whole of this subject and the whole policy intended to be pursued. No one, I think, has found fault with that proceeding. Indeed, the only fault which was mentioned on the first night's discussion was stated by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and amounted to this, that we had not brought forward the question in a more solemn manner by a message from the Crown, asking the advice of Parliament on the subject. Sir, without taking that mode of proceeding, yet I do think it right that the whole policy to be pursued should coincide with the view of Parliament, and that Parliament should be called on to pronounce its opinion respecting it. In pursuing this view we certainly have placed ourselves in difficulties with respect to the manner in which that advice should be asked. I am ready to admit, that part of that policy being to exercise the prerogative of the Crown, that either to enact or place in
 544 545 546 547 548 549 Loud cheers. 550
 Mr. Harvey  said, that having expressed no opinion whatever on this interesting and momentous subject out of the walls of that House, and having yet had no opportunity given him of expressing his opinion within it, he owned that he had been inclined to trespass at some length on the patience of the House, to state the reasons which had induced him on a recent occasion to vote against the second reading of this Bill, But he should now
 564 565 566 567 568
 Sir E. B. Sugden  rose to propose an amendment. He thought that it was desirable that the House should know what were the real powers of the Bill. He had understood from his Friends around
 586 pro formâ, 587
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion with the right hon. and learned Member, that the designation of the new Council was unfortunately selected, because, first of all he thought that it was likely to create confusion with reference to the Council which had up to this time been in existence; and, secondly, because he thought the name was most unpopular in Canada, if he had been desirous of appointing a body of this description, he would not choose the most unpopular name he could discover to give them.
 Mr. Hume , after the explanation which had taken place, only wished to state that in the views which the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) had propounded for the first time in that House as to the manner in which Canada should for the future be governed, so far as he understood them, he entirely concurred, and from what he knew of the sentiments of the people of Canada they would be perfectly content with them, and if they were only acted upon he was sure that they would be anxious to preserve the connection with this country, and he was equally satisfied that if they had been only heretofore acted upon the present difficulties never would have arisen. With respect to the noble Lord's (Viscount Howick's) reference to the period when he took an active part in the Colonial-office, he (Mr. Hume) was bound to say, that he had been the means of communicating addresses of thanks to
 583 584
 Sir George Grey  would beg, in answer to the observations of the right hon. and learned Member opposite, to state that there had not been any substantial alterations made in the bill last night. With
 588
 Sir G. Grey  admitted, that the difficulties they had to contend with were of considerable magnitude; and with respect to those stated by his right hon. Friend, he regretted that they could not be altogether removed consistently with the object of the Bill. He admitted, that it would be highly inconvenient to let the Governor in Council possess the power of making permanent laws, but it was a difficult thing with regard to local improvements. A distinct provision was made by the Legislature in 1832 for public improvements; he therefore did not think that there was any objection to leaving it to the Governor in Council to make appropriations of the revenue to complete the harbour of Montreal. With respect to the amendment of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Exeter, he thought that it was immaterial whether it was adopted or not. If, however, it was thought that the adoption of the amendment was desirable, he should be obliged
 595
 Mr. Ward , having on a former occasion stated his acquiescence in the general principles adopted by her Majesty's Government with respect to the affairs of Canada, would not on the present occasion have troubled the House with any remarks, had he not been particularly referred to by the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel), and the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice), as being one of the Members who had rested their support of this bill upon the principles involved in the words of the preamble then proposed to be omitted. He had certainly attached great importance to those words, because they would go to satisfy the Canadian people that the colony would be governed upon principles worthy of this great country and of an enlightened age. To these sentiments he still adhered; but if, adhering to them, he were asked whether he would object to obtaining the unanimous vote of that House, or would oppose the withdrawal of the words in the preamble he would at once say that he would not; because he believed that the right hon. Baronet was strictly and technically right in the proposal which he had made, and that it was contrary to what was perhaps the wise custom of the Parliament to introduce words into the preamble of a bill which were not followed out by any enacting clause in the body; and in reference to these words
 585
 The Attorney-General  replied, that the objection of his hon. and learned Friend was rather unprofitable and a waste of time, for, with all submission to his hon. and teamed Friend, the effect of the Bill was the same as it originally stood. They were discussing the Bill as it now stood, and was it a ground of complaint, that they had by certain amendments anticipated some of the objections of his hon.
 596
 Sir R. Peel : Sir, when I first became possessed of the bill of the noble Lord for making a temporary provision for the Government of Lower Canada, I availed myself of the earliest possible opportunity of giving public notice that there were two provisions in that bill to which I entertained insuperable objections; and that it was my intention to move amendments to those provisions, and to take the sense of the House for the purpose of having the deliberate decision of Parliament on the subject. I took the course—rather an unusual one—of giving notice of the amendments which it was my intention to propose, for the express purpose of disclaiming any advantage from concealment, and of enabling the noble Lord to take the measures which are usually taken on important questions, to secure such an assemblage of Members as should clothe the decision of this House with the important character of numbers. From the first I never entertained the slightest doubt that I should succeed. I felt so satisfied that the amendments which I intended to pro-pose were founded on reason and common sense, that I paid the House of Commons the compliment of believing that they could not resist the adoption of them. And when I heard hon. Gentlemen on the other side say that the very words in the
 551 552 553 554 à priori, centre-projet à fortiori 555 556 557 558
 The Solicitor-General  observed, that the argument of the noble Lord was in effect that it would be dangerous to empower a temporary government to make other than temporary laws; but he would call on the House to consider whether it would not be attended with much more difficulty to themselves to send out a governor with dictatorial powers, and to say that on certain subjects he should have full authority, but that on others they felt they could not trust him, and therefore they must abridge his dominion.
 Sir W. Follett  did not think, that the learned Solicitor-General had given any answer to the observations of the noble Lord, or that the difficulties which he had
 591 592
 Sir William Follett  stated, that his only object was to exclude from the operation of the clause the laws which he had stated; he had no wish to exclude from the control of the Governor in council any local matters when some legislation was necessary. He, therefore, would adopt the suggestion of his hon. Friend, and hand over his amendment to his control. It was the opinion of every lawyer with whom he had conversed, that as the Bill stood originally it would give to the Governor power without check or limit to legislate to any extent and on any subject. Whatever were the objects of the Bill, he felt bound to say, that a measure of such great consequence, involving the suspension of the constitution of one of our most important colonies—a Bill which had been designated by its introducers as a Bill of pains and penalties, and which gave to the Governor of the province power without check or control—it was impossible that such a measure could be framed with more rash inattention and want of care than was evident in the Bill as originally introduced. He thought, that the House and the country had a right to complain of the manner in which the Bill had been introduced, for the substantial alterations made in the Bill had only been introduced at the present late hour. It would certainly be understood in the colony, that the Bill contained provisions of a very different nature from those which it now contained.
 Viscount Howick : The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has not failed to avail himself of the opportunity which he thought was afforded to him by my noble Friend's concessions to endeavour to throw ridicule upon the Government; but I assure him, and I assure the House, that although his wit was directed against ourselves, I, at least, was not prevented from enjoying it; because I felt that his sneers and taunts were not deserved, since that change in the policy of the Government against which they were directed has not taken place. Had we believed such a change to be required for the good of the country, I know that my noble Friend—and I entirely concur in his feeling—would never have been deterred by any sneers or by any taunts, however well deserved, from taking the course which he thought his duty to the Crown and the public prescribed to him; but I deny that there has been any necessity for taking a course affording just grounds for the ridicule with which we have been assailed. I say that, although we did assent, for the reasons so well stated by my noble Friend, to the alteration in the preamble of the Bill which was proposed by the right hon. Baronet, we in no one respect or particular deviate from the policy which dictated that preamble, nor in any respect propose a change in the line of conduct which we had previously determined to adopt with respect to this momentous question. The right hon. Baronet has stated in very strong language his condemnation of the course which we have pursued in presenting these instructions to the House, and also his opinion condemning the substance and the nature of those instructions. Upon these two points, avoiding as far as I can entering upon other topics, which have been so fully discussed in the House, I am anxious to offer a few words. With respect to the production of the instructions, I think that that course of proceeding was justified by these considerations. In the present state of Canada, feeling it to be our painful duty to propose the suspension of the power now possessed by the representatives of the inhabitants of the colony, we are compelled to recommend to the House that it should invest the governor-general, now about to proceed to the colony, with powers of the most arbitrary, and, I believe, most unprecedented description. I do not think, considering how long the disputes in Canada have been going on, how many professions have been made by different
 570 571 R. Peel 572 573 574 575 576 577 578 579 580 581 582
 Sir George Sinclair  said, that as he had never taken part in any of the discussions respecting the affairs of Canada during the present or any former Session, he should take the liberty on this occasion to trespass on the patience of the House. He believed that no Bill had ever been introduced to which, during its progress through the Committee, so much had been added, or from which so much had been taken away. The acquiescence of the noble Lord in the very seasonable suggestions of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Coventry, had taken no one by surprise on either side of the House. Without pretending to the gift of second sight, he had at once felt persuaded that the noble Lord would give the preference to second thoughts. This result was anticipated by all the Gentlemen who sat around him as soon as they heard the very first sentence of the very able, lucid, and useful speech of his right hon. Friend—so useful to the country, and at the same time so useful to the Government. He knew not whether his right hon. Friend was in the habit of killing two birds with one stone, but he had certainly attained two objects in one speech. He had both shown his patriotism and served his party. He did not for one moment imagine, after the disclaimer of his right hon. Friend, that he had communicated his views beforehand to the noble Lord; but his own sagacity and experience must have convinced him that such a complimentary precaution would be quite superfluous; and, without any assurance from the noble Lord's own mouth, he must have known that he was rendering a most essential service to the Government—extricating them from a notable dilemma, aad sparing to them the danger and mortification of a defeat which was probable in this House and inevitable elsewhere. This proposition must have come like a godsend upon the astonished mind of the noble Lord; he must have felt, that
 "Quod obtanti Divûm promittere nemo "Audebat, volvenda dies en attulit ultro." 617 618 Morning Chronicle 619 bonâ fide 620 621
 Sir Harry Verney  did not consider the conduct with respect to the Canada Bill of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had been so chivalrous as his hon. Friend had just represented it. On the contrary, he considered that conduct to be totally the reverse of chivalrous. In talking of the Bill, his hon. Friend had not been able to place his finger on any part of the conduct of her Majesty's Government with respect to it, that he could justly condemn. As to what his hon. Friend had adverted to, with regard to the not sending additional troops to Canada, the conduct of the Ministry, in that respect, had been approved of by his Grace the Duke of Wellington. [ "No, no!" 622 623
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Baronet who had just relieved himself by the delivery of a long speech, had taken a great deal of trouble to attack the policy of the Government. If he did not know that his hon. Friend conscientiously thought that there could not be a worse Government than the present one, and that he had entertained that opinion for the last two or three years, he should have looked upon his speech as a faithful transcript of the leading article of a morning print. After all his long tirade against the Government, the hon. Baronet said, he was going to vote for the Government bill. [" No, no. 624 625 626 627 628 629
 Sir R. H. Inglis  did not rise for the purpose of following or answering every statement made by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who, however he might think the principles which he was accustomed to advocate were popular, was himself no proof of their popularity. He would not, like the hon. Member, be tempted to enter into the merits or otherwise, of the present Administration, nor at this hour, when he could not believe there was any real intention, notwithstanding the amendment had been proposed, of taking the sense of the House by a division, should he enter into the general question of the proceedings and policy of her Majesty's Government either before the rebellion and revolt in Canada or since, with reference to the best mode of proceeding. He rose for the single purpose of urging her Majesty's Ministers to remember, that even if at this moment the rebellion were suppressed, from that moment their difficulties began. They would have then to deal with a people divided in religion, divided in blood, and divided in all the pursuits of civil life: Protestant and Roman Catholic; English and French; commercial and agricultural. He conceived that a great mistake had been com-
 630 631
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, the hon. Member for Kilkenny had observed that the House of Assembly in Lower Canada had not been guilty of any infraction upon the principles of the constitution of that colony, and the hon. Member had asked her Majesty's Ministers and the Parliament why, by such means as this Bill, they sought to put an end to the House of Assembly? He had no difficulty in supplying an answer to that question. It was a fact well ascertained that several members of the House of Assembly were already in gaol on charges of high treason, and by the last accounts which had been received from that province, it appeared that rewards had been offered for the apprehension of not fewer than twelve other Members of that body upon similar charges. He asked, therefore, whether under such circumstances any rational man could think of continuing that legislative body with any hope or expectation of legislation from it calculated to tranquillise the province; on the contrary, could any being doubt but that the assembling such a body would add to the agitation which unfortunately already existed there? The hon. Member for Kilkenny had designated the Bill as a despotic measure; he concurred with the hon. Member in thinking that it was a strong measure; he believed that in the history of Parliament its parallel was not to be found. But did history present any similar necessity for such a measure? He believed from the best consideration he could give to the
 632 633
 Mr. Grote  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down, and who declared himself a supporter of this measure, had told the House, nevertheless, that it was a strong measure, which had no parallel in British legislation. The description which that hon. Gentleman had thus given of the measure must serve as his excuse for troubling the House with a few observations at this its last stage. He desired to enter his protest against the third reading of a measure of this severe description, though he was well aware how unavailing such a protest would be. The hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford had stated one thing which was most true, and which deserved to be well laid to heart by every Gentleman who considered this subject. He had said when this
 634 635 636 637
 Mr. Warburton  entirely agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Member for London, that by this measure they were destroying a free constitution to have, probably, in its place one approaching despotism. They were not only effecting a revolution, but they were doing so in the spirit of those revolutions that were occurring in South America. But what he would contend for, as he had on former occasions, was, that as England must cease to govern these states at no remote period, it ought
 638
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that the hon. Member who had last spoken had forgotten that this was not a permanent but a tem-
 639
 Sir E. B. Sugden  rose to make one observation, which was, that the alterations introduced into the Bill had verified the prediction of his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel), that the instructions from Lord Glenelg to Lord Durham would never be carried into effect, and would not be acted on, for, as the Bill was now framed, it would be impossible for Lord Durham to call together a convention; and the noble Lord was now deprived of the power of making an infraction of the Canadian and the English constitutions. Ministers had, by their alterations, left the Bill precisely in the state in which the hon. Member for Tamworth wished it to be, for the noble Lord (Lord Durham) would only have the exercise of the prerogative at his command, and he would be a bold man who would venture to use it in calling a convention.
 Sir George Grey  in a matter of mere law would be sorry to put his opinions in competition with those of the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he must say, that in the present instance the hon. and learned Gentleman was wrong; for in the instructions given to Lord Durham, that noble
 641
 Mr. Wakley  said, that the only reason why the House had been induced to look with the slightest favour on the Bill of the noble Lord was the circumstance that it was to be carried into execution by the Earl of Durham, and from the consideration, founded on his Lordship's character, his energy, and his discretion, and also of his love of liberal principles, that the House had a security for the discreet, firm, and fair exercise of those powers. But it now appeared that the noble Lord would not reach Canada till the end of April or the beginning of May, and in the meantime it was proposed to allow the act to be carried into effect by the commander-in-chief; and he (Mr. Wakley) therefore wished to direct the attention of the House and of the Government to the accounts which had been received from Canada of desperate engagements, or he should rather say massacres, which had taken place there, and which were of so sanguinary a nature as not to be described in the English language, and the recital of which could not but harrow up our feelings. In  The Morning Chronicle The London Gazette 642
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the only part of the hon. Member's speech which required any notice from him, was that in which he had quoted the statements appearing in  The London Gazelle. 643
 Mr. Wallace  said, that he approved of the Bill generally; and thought that the country was deeply indebted to the learned Lord who had brought it forward; but there were some of its provisions to which he could not consent. In the first place, by an act, which he held in his hand, it was provided that sheriffs-depute should reside in their counties for the period of at least four months in each year; but by the present Bill it was provided that that act should be repealed, and that the sheriffs, instead of residing for four months, should hold eight courts within their respective counties in every year. It was also provided in the present Bill that the sheriffs should personally attend to their duties,
 718
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, that by the present law of Scotland, the sheriffs-depute were compelled to reside four months in every year within their respective counties, and the Lord-Advocate proposed to repeal the clause of the act containing that important provision. He (Mr. C. Fergusson) could not agree in the propriety of repealing the existing law, and he trusted that the learned Lord would reconsider the Bill with a view of leaving out the first clause altogether. It had been said that the sheriffs-depute ought to be persons frequenting the courts of law, but he could see no necessity for such an arrangement. The first clause of the Bill was the one he objected to, as he wished to see the sheriffs-depute residing more in their respective counties, and the whole business not left to the substitutes. The Bill, as a whole, would be of the greatest advantage to Scotland.
 The Lord-Advocate  said, that there were sheriffs-substitute constantly resident in each county of Scotland, so that the business of the counties was promptly attended to. The sheriffs-depute and sheriffs-substitute had power to decide in civil and criminal cases, with certain reservations, and it was his object, by the present Bill, to extend their power. It had been said that the sheriffs-depute ought to reside for a longer period in their respective counties, but he could inform the House that, with one exception, those sheriffs who resided constantly in their counties were not those who gave the greatest satisfaction. The present Bill enforced the holding of at least eight courts in each year, and it was further proposed that each sheriff should report to the Secretary of State the number of courts held, so that there would be a sufficient check on the conduct of the sheriffs. The general opinion of the lawyers of Scotland was, that the sheriffs ought not to reside constantly in their counties, as by such a residence they lost their habits of business, and acquaintance with the laws.
 The Attorney-General  had no hesitation in saying, that the time the sheriffs resided within their respective counties was of little importance, provided they were compelled efficiently to perform their duties. There was no necessity for constant residence, and it was highly important that the sheriffs should be familiar with the practice and decisions of the higher courts in Edinburgh. He thought the first clause as well as the others would introduce great improvement in the law of Scotland.
 Sir G. Sinclair  expressed his concurrence in the clause as it stood in the Bill.
 Mr. Gillon  thought it quite useless to retain two officers when one was sufficient for the discharge of the duties. In his county the opinion of the sheriff-substitute was held to be as good as that of the sheriff himself, and therefore the retention of a second officer was wholly unnecessary. He had no objection to the clause under consideration. With respect to residence, he could state that the sheriff of Lanark, one of the most important counties in Scotland, was resident within the county, and he (Mr. Gillon) did not see how the arguments of the Lord-Advocate and the Attorney-General in reference to the necessity of attendance in the Parliament-house could hold good.
 Mr. Hume  looked upon this clause as intended to keep up a system of sinecures, and he maintained that the charge brought forward by his hon. Friend, the Member for Greenock, and which he (Mr. Hume) had himself made fourteen years ago, remained wholly unanswered.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that he had no difficulty in answering the case put with regard to the exception of the sheriff of the county of Lanark. The principal city of that county (Glasgow) was second only to the metropolis of Scotland, and from its commercial character necessarily law proceedings arose, and the consequence was, that the sheriff was in constant employment, and his judgment and his law were kept up by the number of causes brought before him. That was not the case with other counties in Scotland, and therefore the same exception could not be applied. He (the Lord Advocate) wholly denied that the office of sheriff was a sinecure. On the contrary, after thirty years' experience, he could state that the duties of the office were extremely severe, and a litigant, for a trifling fee could obtain the judgment of the sheriff at any time.
 Mr. Hume  reiterated his former statement, that the offices of sheriff were sinecures; for a cause was tried at Perth, and the sheriff resident in Edinburgh. The office of sheriff-depute should be abolished, and that it should be compulsory upon the sheriff to reside in his county, or that the sheriff's office should be lopped off, and the sheriff-depute retained, with the salary of both, or more, if necessary.
 Mr. Pringle  concurred with the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate. The office of sheriff in Scotland was no sinecure, the salaries were extremely moderate, and such as would not secure the services of an efficient officer to be resident in any county. It was most desirable that those officers should have the opportunity of an attendance in the superior courts, and in that view he was supported by the judges in Scotland and other eminent law authorities.
 Mr. Wallace  had been informed that the sheriffs were, of all other legal men, the least seen in the Parliament-House. He was so told; but of this he was certain, that if the salaries were 800 l. l.
 Mr. Forbes  objected that the power was more appropriately vested in the sheriffs, who were more competent to exercise it from the possession of local knowledge.
 Sir R. Inglis  would not then enter into the details of the measure, but lest an unfavorable impression might exist out of that House that the evil of non-residence was still to be charged against the church, he believed that no Member of the Legislature, whether hostile or friendly to the establishment, could for a single moment dispute the fact, that at present there were more resident clergy than had been for the last twenty years; a benefit exclusively effected by the energies of the church herself.
 Lord John Russell  stated, that on another occasion he should have to introduce a Bill for the regulation of deans and chapters of cathedrals, by which he hoped to effect a saving of 120,000 l. l. l. 723
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the anticipations of the noble Lord were rather too sanguinary; because he thought that the last Bill alluded to was most vicious in principle and injurious in tendency. He had no doubt that such a measure, from the strong opposition it was likely to receive throughout the country, could only pass that House, if so much could be effected. It should be borne in mind, that although the church had received many pecuniary and other favours from the ancestors of hon. Members, that House had not contributed anything to her support.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the church had gained one million by Queen Anne's Bounty, and a million and a half by grants from that House, for building churches.
 Mr. Hawes  had strong objections to the principle of the measure, as pluralities were still to continue, and as he thought that no individual should hold two livings. Neither did the Bill make any provision for those ecclesiastic districts that by its own clauses were to be made parishes.
 Sir Robert Inglis : On former occasions when this question was in its corresponding stage before the House, I resisted it by a negative; but having never detained the House either by a statement of my objections, or by a division, I am anxious, with their permission, to take this opportunity of expressing briefly the general grounds of my opposition to the principle of the measure. 724 725
 Mr. Shaw  said, if the noble Lord intended to name another day for the discussion of this measure, he should not impede the second reading of the Bill, but defer expressing his opinion till a future stage. If it was put off, he hoped it would be deferred till after the Committee on the Poor-law Bill, with which it was connected. The Poor-law Bill ought to have the precedence.
 Lord John Russell  intended to take the Poor-law Bill first, and to defer the discussion of this measure till afterwards, though he could not name a day for that Committee.
 Alderman Thompson  said, he did not think there was any good ground for the hon. Member complaining of the Bill being opposed at the eleventh hour. When the hon. Member brought forward the Bill last year, he had expressed to the hon. Member that he entertained strong doubts as to its operation, and when it was introduced this year he had stated distinctly that he would not pledge himself to support it. It was hardly necessary for him to point out the importance of the Registry Act which this Bill proposed to modify. It would be recollected that the Shipping Registration Bill had been under the consideration of a Committee of that House for many years, and it came before them so strongly recommended by that Committee that it passed through the House without any opposition. The particular clause enabling shipowners to raise money by mortgage had been strongly recommended by the Committee, and Lord Tenterden had also expressed a strong opinion in its favour. That clause
 729
 Mr. A. Chapman  supported the Bill, which went to establish a system of registration of liabilities similar to that which existed with reference to other descriptions of property in the county of York. From that system of registration no inconvenience had either arisen or been complained of. The Bill would work no hardship, and was only a just protection to the fair, honest tradesman furnishing the tackle and furniture of a ship against the preference which a mortgagee now had. On the whole he supported the Bill, which he thought would work beneficially even for the shipping interests themselves.
 The Solicitor-General  gave the fullest credit for sincerity to the hon. Member who had introduced the Bill, and the hon. Member who had supported it; but he was opposed to the measure upon general principles. The hon. Member for Whitby had assimilated the provisions of this Bill to the registration in the county of York, but that very system already prevailed in respect to shipping, which, as regarded other property, only had existence in the county of which the hon. Member had spoken. In fact, there existed now a registry of shipping, and if a mortgage was about to be effected, information of previous liabilities could be ascertained. But what did this Bill propose? Why, that any individual who chose to call himself the creditor of a shipowner, might impose on that shipowner the difficulty of being unable to raise money upon that description of property. In fact, the bill gave to a man on his own  ipse dixit
 Sir J. R. Reid  said, that as a shipowner, he never was more pleased in his life than he was with the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, and who, in his opinion, had upon this question hit the right nail on the head. He had looked at the petition presented by his hon. Friend, the Member for Tynemouth, in favour of the measure, but he could not find that one single shipowner had signed it; and after consulting a large number of the body, he could state with truth, that with one or
 731
 Mr. Jervis  dissented from the grounds of opposition to this Bill taken both by the hon. Member for Dover, and by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General. He was one who thought that all descriptions of property should be debarred from mortgage unless notice was given to enable all persons to come in and say—"I object to this security, having myself an equitable claim upon the property." This bill had first introduced that principle, and he hailed it as a good measure. He hoped, however, the hon. Member for Tynemouth would allow it to go to a Committee up stairs; or, even approving of the principle of the Bill, he should be compelled to give a reluctant vote against the second reading. His hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor General had said, that this was a bad bill, because his hon. Friend, the Member for Teignmouth, had taken a wrong tribunal to adjudicate on the rights which it affected. Let that be settled in a Committee up stairs. Matters of detail might be considered there. He was in favour of the principle of the measure, as he considered that it would give the honest creditor a protection against the fraudulent shipowner, which at present he did not possess.
 Mr. Clay  could not agree with the statement which had been made, that the grievances which his hon. Friend, the Member for Teignmouth, sought to remedy were of a trifling kind, but he might be permitted to doubt whether the remedy for those grievances was within the reach of legislation, or at least within the reach of that particular remedy which his hon. Friend proposed to apply to them. His hon. Friend called on the House to affirm a great principle, affecting great interests, and a large-amount of property, for the protection of a class, which, although respectable, his hon. Friend must allow, was not very considerable in point of numbers. His hon. Friend proposed to put simple contract creditors on a footing with mortgage creditors. He thought this unfair, as a mortgage proceeded on an agreement between the parties, and it did not seem equitable to him to place a simple contract debt on the same ground.
 732
 Mr. Ingham  said, that the shipowners of the north entirely coincided with him in the objections which he entertained to this bill, and he felt a strong objection, both to the principle which it established, and also to the selection of the shipowners for the first exemplification of that principle. The hon. and learned Member for Chester seemed to think that when a man had incurred a simple contract debt, he ought never to make a title to any property which he wished to alienate without first satisfying that debt. Let the hon. and learned Member bring forward that general proposition and discuss it, and he (Mr. Ingham) should be ready to meet it. But in what a position did his hon. Friend wish to place the ship chandler? He wished to give them the benefit of a mortgage without the expense. What, however, was the dock owner's situation now? He might if he pleased, if not paid for the repairs, detain the ship itself. The effect of his hon. Friend's bill would be, to give the ship repairer greater facilities for recovering his debt than any other person possessed. It might be made the means of an unjust creditor levying an exorbitant demand on the shipowner. Suppose a merchant had put an East India-man into dock, and had contracted with the dock owner for her repair for a sum of 500 l. l. l. l. l. 733
 Sir J. Duke , as an extensive shipowner, must say that he was opposed to this measure, and he could show that the shipowners of Scotland and of Newcastle and Sunderland participated in his feelings with respect to it; but he was quite sure from the temper of the House, that it would not be necessary to enter into the evidence. He had been engaged in the shipping trade for twenty years, and he never knew but one instance of a fraudulent mortgage by a shipowner.
 Mr. P. Thomson  would recommend his hon. Friend, after what had passed, to withdraw his bill. In his opinion his hon. Friend did perfectly right in bringing in the measure; but it was incumbent on him to show, either that it would benefit the shipowners themselves, or that society generally was so much injured by the existing law that an alteration was absolutely necessary. From what had passed it was quite clear that no such case had been made out. He therefore recommended his hon. Friend to withdraw his measure till some degree of unanimity prevailed on the subject.
 Mr. G. F. Young , in reply, said that he had been urged by the shipowners themselves to introduce his bill, but when he found their representatives, instructed by their constituents, opposing it, he felt that it would be useless to press the measure. He repudiated the idea of his being actuated by any other desire than that of benefitting that commercial interest with which he was intimately connected, and which he had exerted himself in promoting for many years.
 Lord John Russell  said, that, as the hon. Baronet opposite had asked him a question with respect to the steam-vessel Caroline, reported to have been burned in Canada, he felt called upon to rise. In answer to that question, he begged to say, that her Majesty's Government had received no official communication with regard to that transaction, and it was, therefore, impossible for the Government, until a dispatch was received, to state the character of it. The latest dispatch from Sir Francis Head was dated the 28th December. There were other accounts from Sir John Colborne of the date of the 2nd January, in which it was stated, that it had been arranged between him and Sir F. Head that all future operations against Navy Island were to be carried on under his direction, and that he was taking steps with that view with all possible dispatch.
 Mr. Lucas , in moving the second reading of this bill, observed, that his object in introducing it had been to improve the condition of the peasant tenantry of Ireland, with reference to a subject in which their individual interests were, almost without an exception, involved. By a report of the Poor Law Commissioners for Ireland it appeared that Conacre was found to be general in every barony which had been visited by the Assistant-Commissioners, with the single exception of a barony in the county Mayo; and the
 734
 Sir R. Inglis , seeing in their places the noble Lords, the Secretaries for the Home and Foreign Departments, wished to ask them questions on two points which he knew excited very great interest at the present moment, both in the House and the country. He had, however, he begged to add, every reason to hope, that the answers he should receive would, in the fullest sense of the word, be satisfactory. The first question was relative to the American steamer Caroline. As he could not be content—indeed, as he would not condescend to qualify the transaction in the style it had been treated in the American papers, he would simply say, that his first question was relative to the steamer Caroline. The second question was, would the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, object to state to the House the relation in which Mr. Fox, her Majesty's Minister in America, was now placed in respect to the United States government?
 Lord Palmerston  was happy in being able to answer the second question proposed by the hon. Baronet, With regard to the first, he understood no official account as to the affair of the Caroline had yet reached the Colonial-office, which, therefore, knew of it only through the doubtless much exaggerated statements contained in the American papers. With regard to the relation in which Mr. Fox stood at the present moment with the government of the United States, he was
 716 717
 Sir Charles Style  said, that although he thought the Bill insufficient for the purposes for which it was intended, and was persuaded that it would impose heavy expenses, without corresponding advantages, yet he could not reconcile it to his conscience to withhold his support from it. Whatever faults there might be in the measure, sooner than that the poor of Ireland should remain in their present depressed and degraded state, he was prepared to adopt a measure even still more objectionable in its character. The first thing that struck him as objectionable in the Bill was, that one-half of the burthen was to be im-
 775 l. 776 777 778 "Nothing can exceed the miserable appearence of the cottages in Donegal, or the desolate aspect of a cluster of these hovels, always teeming with an excessive population. Yet, if you enter their cabins, and converse with them frankly and kindly, you will find the people intelligent and communicative, quick to comprehend, and ready to impart what they know. They admitted that they were too numerous, 'too thick upon the land,' and that, as one of them declared, 'they were eating each other's heads off—but what could they do? There was no employment for the young people, nor relief for the aged, nor means nor opportunity for removing their surplus numbers to some more eligible spot. They could only therefore live on 'hoping,' as they said, 'that times might mend, and that their landlords would sooner or later do something for them.' Yet, with all this suffering, no disturbance or act of violence has occurred in Donegal. During the severe privations of the last summer, when numbers were actually in want of sustenance, there was no dishonesty, no plundering—the people starved, but they would not steal; and although their little stock of cattle and moveables have been notoriously lessening these last four years, and especially in the last year, which seems to have swallowed up nearly all their visible means, they have yet paid their rents—the occupier's share of the produce has been insufficient for his own support, yet the landlord's share has generally been paid in full; and I was assured by the agent of one of the largest proprietors that he had no arrears worth noticing."
 Mr. Shaw  intended to support the principle of the bill by voting for the second reading; but he thought that the details of it would require many alterations and amendments in Committee. He did not agree with the hon. Baronet (Sir Charles Style) who had just sat down in the principle that the poor had a right to relief; nor did he agree with him in the proposition
 779
 Mr. O'Connell  agreed with one-half of what had just fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, and that was a great deal, he thought. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman that if the Bill did not pass this year, as he (Mr. O'Connell) certainly hoped it would not, a measure giving some kind of relief to the poor of Ireland must some day pass. At the same time he did not see why it should be expected that the House of Commons should be unanimous in introducing Poor-laws into Ireland at all. Had he (Mr. O'Connell) been in London a few hours sooner, he should have felt it his duty to have trespassed upon the House at considerable length in stating his objections to the Bill now proposed; but as his arrival had been delayed, he should confine himself to one or two observations only in the present stage of the Bill, reserving himself until the proposition for going into Committee, when he should state his objections at length, and move that the Committal of the Bill be deferred for six months. He could not agree in the principle of any Poor-law as proposed to be applied to Ireland which should go beyond the extension of relief to the lame, the impotent, and the blind—those who from permanent physical causes were utterly incapable of labouring for their own subsistence. To that extent, and to that extent only, would he go in the introduction of a system of Poor-laws
 780
 Mr. Gibson  rejoiced that there was at least one Irish question upon which all sides of the House were agreed, and he
 781 782
 Mr. James Grattan  said, in his judgment the present measure was the best ever introduced for the improvement of the condition of Ireland. He trusted her Majesty's Government would keep the Bill in its present shape, with the exception of the clause relating to emigration. He thought also that the relief ought to be confined to indoor relief, as by increasing the various modes of relief the object of the measure would be wholly destroyed. With these alterations, and by the omission of the emigration clause, the Bill would be a blessing to the country to which its operations were directed. The hon. Member who had spoken last had said leave Ireland alone; but that would never do when it was notorious that the assassinations, agrarian combinations, and outrages—all were to be traced to the state of destitution which, unhappily, generally prevailed in Ireland. The establishment of boards of guardians would of itself be productive of great good. The noble Lord below him (Lord Morpeth) was entitled to great praise for the mode in which he had brought the Bill forward, and he trusted that the Government without vacillation would carry it through in a bold, manly, and straightforward manner.
 Mr. Wrightson  said, that having some years ago been engaged as a commissioner to inquire into the state of the poor in Ireland, he hoped to be permitted to express his opinion on the present measure. Undoubtedly the Government had taken great pains in the matter; they had consulted persons of high attainments upon the subject, and the result was the Bill now on the table, the great objection to which was that part which involved the public with a degree of liability with regard to the great mass of the labouring classes of the people. He thought that liability to be of a very injudicious character. The classes of people who were to be entitled to relief ought to be specified, and when the Bill was in Committee, he should feel it his duty to propose amendments to attain that object, and to confine relief to the lame, blind,' and impotent, following as near as possible the words contained in the statute of Elizabeth and to exclude from the provisions of the Bill young healthy men who were able to earn their own livelihood.
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  begged to ask the hon. Member who had just sat down, if it
 783
 Mr. Hindley  observed, that it had been said that this was not a party question. He wished it were a party question, for it would then be better for the poor of Ireland. They would then have had both sides of the House richly clothed; but because the poor of that country had no party in that House, hon. Members could
 784 785
 Lord Clements  was sure, that the hon. Member who had just sat down, would himself, on reflection, condemn the intemperate language which the House had heard from him. The speech of the hon. Member was, he must say, more suited for the Committee than for the present moment. He was himself disposed to think that the mendicancy clauses had better be omitted. If reasons were given to satisfy him that they ought to be retained, he should be glad to see them form part of the bill, but he thought this was not the present time to discuss that question. In reference, however, to the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member in the beginning of his speech, he must say, that it was very unfair in him to say that both parties in that House had agreed to oppress the poor of Ireland. He would assert that but one feeling prevailed in the House, and that was anxiety to remedy their condition. He should not have ventured to rise on this occasion, but that he wished to make one remark, which he begged to do with great respect and deference to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. He thought it desirable that the noble Lord should, on going into Committee, lay before the House a more general view than he had hitherto done of the way in which he would recommend that the discretion given to the Poor-law Commissioners should be acted on. He himself approved of the powers which were vested in the Poor-law Commissioners, but no explanation had yet been given of the way
 786
 Mr. William Roche  said, that having but that moment arrived from Ireland, he had no opportunity of hearing the arguments and opinions adduced during the present discussion; but, nevertheless, he could not forego the occasion now presented of expressing his conviction that it was high time to extend to Ireland a system of protection for its poor; and that he was more disposed to regret that circumstances should have prevented its commencement at a much earlier period, than to quarrel with its adoption now; convinced as he was that if adopted some years ago, and therefore now in active and mature operation the condition of the Irish people, and the face of that country would present a much more gratifying aspect. Few opposed the measure on principle, and therefore, the sooner they came to the details and thereby expedited practical proceedings with a view to arrive at the test of experience, the sooner would they be enabled to discover faults, if any, and to smooth down difficulties. Difficulties no doubt must attend the maturing of every new measure and extensive change; but that he was quite sure so soon as the machinery was made by practical knowledge and experience, to work with ease, the measure would be found to be one most salutary and beneficial to all classes of the community. Nevertheless, no one felt more than he did that it was only a beginning and a fragment of what was due to Ireland, and necessary to remove the impediments and to call forth the sources of her prosperity—sources in which no country more abounded, but which from,
 787 d.
 Lord John Russell  certainly could not agree with the hon. Member for Ashton, who seemed to think that the House must intend to oppress the poor because there was an agreement between both parties to pass this measure for their welfare. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think that we ought to go back to those times when beggary was generally permitted, and when it was considered to be rather a merit than otherwise that the whole country was overrun with troops of mendicants. The hon. Gentleman seemed also to think that at present the law permitted vagrancy in Ireland. But so far from that, as the law now stood, vagrants might be transported. The hon. Member, therefore, was mistaken in supposing that this bill introduced for
 788 789
 Mr. H. Hinde  rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the Bill be divided into two Bills, the first referring to the 10 l. l. l.
 Colonel Evans  said, he believed the Bill to be an extremely useful amendment of the Reform Act, and he sincerely thanked the noble Lord for the amendment which he had introduced. At the same time however, he could not but express his intention to vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury, which was only consistent with the view which he took during the passing of the Reform Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it appeared from what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that the duty of the Conservatives was to oppose a bad law before passing, and to support it after it had passed, maintaining it unchanged in its original form. It was certainly a curious sort of Conservatism for hon. Gentlemen opposite to support a law against which they had so vehemently protested, as they did against the Reform Bill. The right hon. Gentleman, and those around him, were continually crying out against every improvement, and saying, "let well alone." They would admit of no alterations in the Reform Bill, against which they had ever exerted all their energies. The right hon. Gentleman had said, he had contended against the rent-paying clauses of the Reform Bill, and been successful in having them removed, and in his (Mr. O'Connell's) opinion, it would be better to strike out the rate-paying clause also; and he should therefore vote for the amendment.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not say whether his obedience to the laws was or was not greater than that of the right hon. Gentleman. He regretted, however, that the right hon. Gentleman should have lost his temper.
 Mr. O'Connell : Then all I have to say is, that the right hon. Gentleman can say an uncivil thing in good humour—that's all.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, he concurred in much of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, but in considering the question he hoped the interests of the coalowners of the north were not the only interests which would be regarded. He disapproved of invidious distinctions, and as the system of combination in this trade existed as much now as ever, he thought that the whole subject, without reference to any part of the country, should be inquired into.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, the amendment suggested by the hon. Member for Leeds, would have been better discussed on a question of registration than on the present occasion.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, that the principle involved in the proposition was, that property should not be the basis of the qualification, for it did away with the necessity of paying rates, which might be looked upon as a test of the  bonâ fide
 Lord John Russell  felt extreme astonish-
 805 "Ut belli signum laurenti Turnus ab arce Extulit,"
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he was astonished at the statement just made by his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny. It was well known that one of the purposes of the Reform Act was to remove the species of temptation to which the elec-
 798 l. l. 799
 Lord John Russell  had only to say, that the proposition of the hon. Member was far wide of the alteration which he proposed—an alteration which was originally suggested by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster. He proposed it on the ground, which he considered a just one, of punctuality in the payment of the rates year after year. It often happened that persons failed in paying those rates at the necessary time for entitling them to be placed on the register, and, therefore, said the hon. Gentleman, was it that persons to whom the Reform Bill intended to give the franchise were by this provision prevented from exercising it, although every person admitted that those were the persons for whom the Reform Bill was chiefly intended. But the hon. Member's proposition now was, that the franchise ought to be given to persons for whom the Reform Bill intended it. The Reform Bill adopted the principle established in the constitution of this country respecting scot and lot voters, that the payment of the rates should be looked upon as the criterion of their solvency. The hon. Member wished them to extend the franchise to those who did not pay taxes, and who gave no test of solvency, a proposition consequently differing from the Reform Bill, and one in which he could not therefore agree. It would be in fact, to admit that the Reform Bill, and the ancient constitution, were altogether wrong, and that insolvency and beggary were no obstacle to the exercise of the franchise.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he had stated upon a former occasion the grounds upon which it had been judged proper to unite these two subjects in the same Bill. He could not say, that the hon. and learned gentleman had convinced him by any of the reasons which he had advanced, that he was wrong in adopting that course. He therefore thought that the House should pass into Committee upon the Bill as it stood at present.
 Mr. C. Buller  complained of the charge made against the supporters of the motion proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury, that they wished to have the electoral qua-
 806
 Mr. C. Buller  thought, the best provision of the Reform Act was the extension of the franchise to 50 l. l. 803
 Colonel Sibthorp  had not the slightest political respect for either Whigs or Radicals; and since the noble Lord had been altering, patching up, and mending the measure of reform, which he had told him at the time of passing, he knew nothing about, he would ask the noble Lord why the 10 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that when this subject was last before the House, he had stood forward for the purpose of vindicating the honest freemen of England from the charges of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, her Majesty's Attorney-General, who had thought fit to designate them "the curse of the country." He was happy again to have the opportunity of standing forward boldly in behalf of those injured, individuals whose character he was ever ready to defend. The two points which, formed the subject of the present Bill appeared to him to be totally incongruous; and, for his part, he never would become a party to any such unjustifiable and underhanded trick. He certainly would not commit himself by giving his sanction to any Bill of this, he was going to say, nefarious description.
 Mr. P. Thomson  stated, that as soon as the Government heard of the rumour of the intention to alter the duties on linens and linen yarns, no time had been lost in making representations at Paris against the proposed change; but from the communications made to him he was not led to hope that the decision which the French Government would come to on that point would be very satisfactory to himself or to the hon. Member (Mr. Baines).
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, the unfortunate accident to which the noble Lord had alluded, had occurred so recently, that the Government had not had time to investigate the circumstances attending the loss of the Killarney steamer. It was, however, a subject well worthy of the most attentive consideration, and it was unquestionably of the greatest importance to ascertain whether in regard to steam-boats generally some restrictions could not be made as to the quantity of live stock shipped on board those vessels, similar to those restrictions which existed in regard to other passage-boats.
 Mr. Maclean  objected to proceeding with the Bill. If it were proposed on the ground of fraud on the part of the overseers, he could understand it, but none such was alleged, and the House was left entirely in the dark as to the reasons for proposing the measure. If it were correct to relieve the Parliamentary electors, why did they not make it more extensive and let it apply to voters under the Vestry and Corporation Acts, in both of which Acts payment of rates formed part of the qualification? He objected also to the introduction of a series of changes without the reason for them having been unfolded by the leader of that House; and unless good grounds for this measure were brought forward, he hoped that it would be rejected on the third reading.
 Mr. Maclean  said, there was one portion of the clause on which he should divide the House, unless the noble Lord opposite consented to alter it. The bill required the payment of rates and taxes to give a right to vote, but it never could have been the object of its framers to apply any other test than that of solvency to claimants for the
 810
 Mr. Baines  suggested to the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, whether proof of one year's payment of taxes would not be sufficient. He did not mean to divide the House on the subject, but as the law at present stood, it was necessary, in many cases, to go back for, perhaps, twenty years, and he had seen great inconvenience resulting as the consequence to the revising barristers. He thought it would be better, if the payment of one year's rates and taxes before entering the name of the elector on the register was made sufficient. He only wished to suggest the matter to the noble Lord, and had no wish to impede the progress of the bill.
 Mr. Baines  asked whether the Government had directed its attention to the alteration
 774
 Mr. Baines  approved of the principle of the Bill, but he contended that its operation ought to be extended. By the Bill as it at present stood, the extension of the time for the payment of rates and taxes, applied only to persons whose names were already upon the register of the past year, and not to those who claimed in virtue of their occupancy to have their names inserted upon the register for the first time. This was a distinction unknown to the Reform Act, and he hoped the noble Lord would extend the time for the payment to the 11th of October in the preceding year, as well to those names which were not in the former register as to those that were inserted in that register. He might mention, to show the importance of this alteration, that in the borough which he had the honour to represent there were upwards of a thousand names claiming to be registered in the last revising barristers' court, not one of whom could have availed himself of the benefit of this Bill if it had then been passed into a law. Nothing could be more detrimental to the Reform Act than to grant the privileges under it partially or parsimoniously.
 Sir E. Sugden  could assure the hon. Member for Dublin that he had not lost temper.
 Sir E. Sugden  felt some surprise at the Bill proposed by the Government, support for which was demanded, not only from those who advocated the present small measure, but also from those who were in favour of a stronger measure. He recollected that the noble Lord once denounced
 804
 Sir E. Sugden  observed, that he had only talked of obeying the law, and had said nothing of alterations of the law. To obey the laws, he had said, was the duty of the Conservatives; but perhaps the hon. Member for Dublin did not fully understand that duty.
 Mr. Goulburn  feared, that the object which the hon. Gentleman had in view would not be attained by his resolution, as it went merely to the continuance of the present Act, and not to the inquiry proposed.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that he meant to effect the inquiry by means of an instruction to the Committee. With respect to what had fallen from the noble Lord, (Lord
 815
 Mr. Labouchere , on bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, for the House resolving itself a Committee on the Coal Trade
 813 l. 814 d.
 Mr. Labouchere  then proposed a resolution, to the effect that a Bill should be brought in for continuing the law now in operation with respect to the coal trade of the metropolis.
 Mr. Warburton  said, in explanation, that when the names of the electors were once on the register, it never after became necessary for them to prove the payment of rates and taxes.
 Mr. Warburton  would ask why householders should be required at all to prove their solvency, and why a rule should be applied to persons resident in England which was not applied to electors in Scotland. He was prepared to vote for the amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury, but he would go farther than that hon. Member; and he was sure that if the hon. Member would propose a regulation for England similar to that which existed in Scotland he would succeed. He really hoped that some hon. Member would put a motion to that effect on record, in order that the opportunity of exhibiting the opinion of the House to the public might not be lost.
 Mr. Leader  said, that at his election for Westminster there were not ten or twelve, but hundreds of persons holding the 10 l. 802 l.
 Mr. Hume  was prepared to say that much mischief had hitherto proceeded from the system at present acted upon, for during the last Westminster election but one he saw some dozen persons who were prepared to vote for Mr. Leader if the committee would pay their taxes; but he had reason to believe, that their votes were eventually secured by the Conservative candidate. When the clause in the Reform Bill referring to scot and lot voters was before the House, it was predicted that this would be the result, and it was the result; and he thought that the noble Lord was bound to complain of the Reform Bill. His object in passing that measure was not to have any constituency consisting of less than 300 voters, but he must now be well aware that there were forty with less than that.
 Mr. Hume : Will it be open for the Committee to inquire into the conduct of the Bank of England during the last eighteen months?
 Mr. Hume  said, it was not his intention to propose any alteration in the agreement made with the Bank of England, but he wished to know how that agreement was to be carried out. He should therefore move, whenever the proposed Committee should be appointed, that the inquiry should be extended into the conduct of the Bank of England. He also wanted to know what was to be done with the Bank of Ireland, as the expiration of its charter was fast approaching?
 Mr. Hume  inquired whether the Government intended to renew the Committee, or take any measures with respect to the Bank of England?
 Mr. T. Duncombe  rose to introduce an amendment, which, as he thought, would be a great benefit. He proposed to leave out the last two lines in the first clause, "except such as shall have become payable from him previously to the 11th day of October in the preceding year." The effect, if the omission which he suggested were adopted by the House, would be to enact that, after the passing of that Act, no person should be required, in order to have his name retained in the list of voters for any city, town, or borough, in England, for any year, to have paid any poor-rates or assessed taxes. This was a simple and summary mode of repealing the rate-paying clauses of the Reform form Act. It was for the House to say whether the clause should be repealed, or whether the remedy which he proposed
 795 l. l. l. 796
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proposed to proceed with the inquiry on joint-stock banks before any measures should be be taken with regard to the Bank of Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it certainly was not his intention to propose any question before that Committee the tendency of which would be to alter the arrangements deliberately entered into between that House and the Bank of England; at the same time he thought it would be impossible for the Committee to consider the state of banking generally throughout the country without taking into account a certain portion of the proceedings of the Bank of England, as connected with the circulation of the country.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, it was of much greater importance to propose such measures as were likely to be carried into effect than to push principles too far and fail altogether. The Bill of his noble Friend met the case of a man who, under existing circumstances, would be deprived of his vote by an accidental omission to pay his rate, and supplied a remedy for that inconvenience, whereas the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury would extend the franchise to an individual who might be insolvent. He could not help observing that the practice pursued by some hon. Members on the present and other occasions was calculated to place the Ministers in a false position, for whenever an advanced step in the course of amendment was taken by them, it was misrepresented to the country by its being immediately contrasted with some more extreme measure. He begged to remind the House that when the present Bill was introduced in a former Parliament, it was received with general satisfaction by the Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in the course of next week he should propose the re-appointment of the Committee on joint-stock banks.
 Mr. Gillon  said, it had been ruled that the non-payment of rates and taxes formed no valid objection to the right of voting. He thought his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, had used his argument fairly enough, and was right in his facts. As to the amendment of his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury, it should have his cordial support.
 Mr. Praed  considered that it was necessary he should correct a misapprehension into which an hon. Member had fallen with respect to what he had stated. He never said, that the rich and the reputable would pay their rates, while the poor and disreputable would not pay; he thought, on the contrary, and said, that many reputable people might not pay their rates, but he was of opinion, that the payment of a man's just and fair debts afforded a fair test of his respectability. He objected to the clause however, on grounds totally distinct from those relied on by hon. Members opposite. The opinions of right hon. Members, not now in the House, referred to by the hon. Member for Marylebone, supplied no evidence as to what they thought of the present Bill. On the opposition side of the House, they desired to abide by the Reform Act in its present state, and to take it as a whole. As to the evil arising from the non-payment of taxes, it was every year decreasing, and he really thought that, after the change in the franchise which that measure effected, it was not unreasonable to expect the continuance of such a test of solvency, of respectability, of attention to, and interest in, public affairs, as the punctual payment of rates and taxes supplied. He was resolved to oppose the amendment.
 Mr. Praed  could not see the propriety of mixing up one part of the Bill with the other, and thus making them stand or fall together. The principle involved in the two parts was entirely different. The stamp duty on the admission of freemen was imposed only for fiscal purposes, and had no reference to their right to vote; and even during the discussion on the Reform Bill not one word was said on the necessity for this payment. Up to that time the admission to the freedom was the means of acquiring several pecuniary privileges, and the right to vote was only an incidental advantage. These pecuniary privileges had since been taken away, and all that remained of the right for which they had to pay the stamp-duty was the exercise of the elective franchise, for which they ought not to be made to pay. With the ten pound householders, however, the case was different. They had a right conferred upon
 792
 Sir Adolphus Dalrymple  could not sup-
 791
 Mr. Hall  had no doubt, that if the right hon. Members referred to were in the House, they would vote against the amendment; they opposed the extension of the franchise, and now they desired to cripple its exercise as much as possible. He could name three Gentlemen, Members of that House, whose sufficiency could not be doubted, whose names had been struck off the register of voters, in consequence of not having paid their rates. In small boroughs, where parties were divided, the rate-paying clauses of the Reform Act, in addition to many other evils consequent upon them, placed the election too much in the hands of the overseers. Candidates were frequently called upon to pay the voter's taxes for him; and he had no hesitation in declaring, that some years ago, he had assisted in the payment of the rates and taxes of some persons occupying 10 l. l.
 Mr. J. Jervis  considered it impossible to find one argument in favour of the course followed by the noble Lord. It was a truckling and a middle course, and if this measure were taken as a sample of the policy of the Government, he was sure they would derive commendation from no party in the House, and that the people without would give them no credit, but that hon. Gentlemen opposite would be praised for spoiling the question for which they were all contending, viz., freedom of election.
 Sir S. Whalley  supported the amendment, and referred to the opinions expressed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire, during the debates on the Reform Act. Their opinions, he had no doubt, would have more weight with the House
 800 l.
 Mr. Clay  said, that before the passing of the Reform Act, the qualification of voters was on a far different footing from
 797
 Lord Ebrington  wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether the attention of the Government had been directed to the recent loss of the Killarney steamer, and whether Ministers had any legislative measure in contemplation for the purpose of securing passengers against the risks to which they are constantly exposed on board Steam-boats as at present conducted?
 Lord Ebrington  did not think the payment of rates the best qualification, but, as he considered that the amendment would defeat the object of the Bill, he should vote for the proposal of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Hume  did not deny, that there existed a necessity for such a measure as the present, but he thought that the House ought to be made acquainted with the engagement which the right hon. Gentleman had entered into in reference to this measure. He knew that many complaints were made of the manner in which the money voted by Parliament was applied—namely, to the salaries of masters, instead of building school-houses. But the greatest objection of all was that the means of diffusing education were afforded to one class of persons only in Scotland. He was for diffusing education as widely as possible, but he did not see why the schools should be under the control of any particular sect or class. He very much questioned the propriety of granting more money until the whole case was before the House; and he must say, that he had been much disappointed because the Government had not brought forward some plan of general education, not only with regard to Scotland, but to the whole kingdom. From returns which he held in his hand he found that in some of the parishes of the Highlands the most lamentable ignorance prevailed. In one of them, for instance, out of a population of 1,095 souls, only 172 children between the ages of five and fifteen were able to read, and ninety six only could write. He would not oppose any measure calculated to promote and extend education, but he hoped that some system would be adopted which should be unfettered by any exclusive principle, and that before the House agreed to any further grant of money, it would be put in possession of the whole of the facts of the case, both as to the plans to be adopted, and the persons in whose hands the money was to be placed.
 Mr. Colquhoun  was favourable to the measure, and trusted that a similar enactment would be extended to other parts of Scotland. The money was not so much wanted for the building of schoolhouses, or the building of masters' houses, as for the salary of the masters.
 Mr. Wyse  supported the Bill; for, notwithstanding all the energies of the Church, and the munificence of the people, it was quite clear that the aid of the Government was required for the establishment of a sufficient number of school-houses, to supply the wants of the country.
 Mr. W. Campbell  was grateful for the introduction of the present measure, and hoped that it might be extended.
 Mr. R. Steuart  was glad that the Bill was to be introduced, for he was sure it would lead to a general inquiry into and extension of the system of education in Scotland.
 Mr. Wallace  could not altogether approve of the outlines of the Bill which the right hon. Gentleman wished to introduce. It would have been more agreeable to him if it had been not only a measure to extend education in Scotland, but also to alter and improve the system of education in that country. He spoke of the system of parochial education, which required great improvement. The chief evil of the existing system was the appointment of schoolmasters for life. The former system was to choose schoolmasters for a limited time, and he would endeavour to restore that system. There was a time when Scotland was justly noted for the excellence of its parochial system of education, but it now deserved a very different character. Schools that were not under the parochial system were a great deal better managed than parochial schools at present. They had better teachers, and the scholars were much sooner brought to that degree of knowledge derivable from elementary education than could be required at the parochial schools; and he believed it would be found that the system upon which the masters were chosen, and under which the parochial schools were managed and endowed, was the root of the evil of which he was speaking. His wish was, that a Bill should be introduced for the extension of education throughout Scotland; and he should be still more happy if it were a Bill for the general improvement of the minds of the people throughout the kingdom.
 Mr. Gillon  did not think, that the present system of the parochial schools in Scotland had been characterised in too strong terms by the hon. Member for Greenock. It was of a most faulty nature; and in many places not only faulty but disgraceful. Many of the schoolmasters were incompetent to perform the duties of the responsible situations which they filled. It was not so much the want of money or of an improved system that was required, as of a better method of electing the masters. At present, men who were in every way qualified by their character,
 823
 Captain Gordon  was sure that the people of Scotland would feel grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for the proposition which he had now made, and particularly for the assurance that the public grants would be continued. With regard to the proposition made to alter the system of appointing schoolmasters for life, he trusted that the Government would consider well before they introduced any alterations in the system which now prevailed, which he believed gave great gratification to the people of Scotland.
 Mr. Borthwick  could not hear the national Church of Scotland called a sectarian establishment without protesting against it. The Church of Scotland, like the Church of England, embraced the majority of the people within its pale, and he was sure that no Dissenter in Scotland would oppose the education of his children being conducted in the parochial schools, whatever they might do in England or in Ireland.
 Mr. Shaw  did not object to the introduction of the bill, and he was glad to find that it had received the sanction of the highest medical authorities. He did not mean to say, that the administration of the medical charities in Ireland was incapable of amendment, but he knew that great exertions had been made by private individuals to effect improvement; and they ought not to do anything to prevent the exercise of private charity, nor to interfere in the management of the medical department, in which there were to be found no better educated men than those instructed in the medical schools in Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rejoiced at the introduction of the bill. He hoped that it would not interfere with private charity, but its object was a more general and perfect superintendence over
 832
 Captain Wood  said, that the refusal of the noble Lord gave him some surprise. If the returns gave any inconvenience to her Majesty's Government, or could have in the slightest degree the effect of militating against her Majesty's service, he would be the last man in the House to wish them; but he confessed he could not himself clearly see how it was possible they should have that effect. He (Captain Wood) was anxious, not alone that they should have been granted, but also that the date of the enlistment of each deserter should be added to them; because he considered that it was the duty of the House to direct the Government how to provide proper soldiers for the respective services in which they should be required to act. In his opinion the main cause of desertion might be attributed to the inadequacy of the pension given to the soldier on the expiration of his servitude. Sixpence a day, which the last warrant granted, was quite insufficient as a remuneration for past services; and the soldier who had wasted his life and strength in dangers and distant climates often found himself obliged to have recourse to the workhouse when he was discharged and returned to his own country. Without pledging himself to any of the hon. and gallant Member's particular views who had moved for their return, he (Captain Wood) thought that they should be either granted or a sufficient reason assigned for their refusal.
 Mr. Borthwick  expressed a similar hope, and observed that there was no similarity in the statement made a few evenings ago by the hon. Member for Westminster and that made to-night by the hon. and gallant Member near him (Captain Boldero). The statement of the hon. Member for Westminster had followed the invocation by the hon. Member for Leeds of the curse of heaven on the heads of the Ministry. He was aware that he was out of order in alluding to a past debate, but he was glad to find the motives of the hon. Member for Westminster were different from that which he had at the time supposed them to be.
 Mr. Borthwick  had no wish to be out of order—he merely desired to justify his own condemnatory observations upon the speech of the hon. Member for Westminster on the occasion to which he had referred.
 Captain Boldero  had not moved for the return with the view of raking up past errors, but he had hoped that it would have been granted in order to check a crime which he regretted was so great in extent; still, however, as it had been
 831
 Captain Boldero  wished to call the attention of the House, and of the noble Lord the Secretary at War, to a subject which had made a considerable impression on the public
 824 d. 825 l. l. s. s.
 Mr. Shaw  was of opinion that the reasons stated by the noble Lord were sufficient to show the inexpediency of
 829
 Mr. Warburton  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention to introduce any clause to prevent clergymen from holding office as managers or directors of the companies in question?
 The Speaker  begged to call the hon. Member's attention to the fact, that it was not usual to go back to particular expressions and words used by any hon. Member in a past debate, though it was open to the hon. Member to make a general allusion to that which had passed on a former occasion.
 Mr. Leader  hoped the gallant Officer would persevere with his motion. It seemed to him most strange that the noble Lord should refuse this return. That refusal might have the effect of inducing the public to suspect that desertion from the army in Canada was more prevalent than it actually was. The noble Lord perhaps imagined that a statement of the number of desertions might act as a sort of bad example to the troops now going out to Canada. But surely it would be much better to let the fact be known, than to leave the country to form an exaggerated estimate of the number of desertions. He was rather surprised that the noble Lord did not make some remark upon one observation which fell from the gallant Officer opposite, who had said that
 828
 Mr. Hume  regretted that it was not the intention of the hon. and gallant Officer to press his motion. Great expense was now experienced by the country in consequence of the extent to which the army required to be recruited owing to the desertions that took place in Canada. A better system of paying and rewarding the soldiers might prevent this. He would submit to the noble Lord that, for the good of the service, he ought to furnish the return applied for. Not only ought such a return to be made with respect to Canada, but with respect to the troops in all the British colonies. It was extremely desirable to know in what country and from what regiments, too, desertions were most frequent; because it might be discovered to what circumstances those desertions were attributable, and thus a remedy might be more readily devised.
 Mr. Thomas Attwood  hoped the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reflect a little before he gave effect to such an  ex post facto
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that there was no prohibitory clause in the bill at all. Its object was merely to give validity to certain contracts which had been made in ignorance of the law. If the House should deem it expedient to introduce such a provision as that adverted to by the hon. Member for Bridport, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should be ready to discuss the question; but the present was not the proper time. The subject would be more properly introduced when the Church Bill, now on the table of the House, came under consideration. In that bill there were certain clauses to prevent clergymen from entering into trade; and, if it were considered expedient, a clause might be introduced to prevent them from becoming directors and managers of joint-stock companies. His
 820
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the law with respect to clerical members of joint-stock companies. He felt it necessary to make this motion in consequence of a recent decision by the Court of Exchequer, to the effect, that it was unlawful for
 817 818 l. 819
 Viscount Howick  was afraid that it would not be easy for the Government to comply with the motion of the hon. and gallant Officer. He did not, however, see, even if the returns which the hon. and gallant Member called for could be laid before the House, in what manner the production of them could promote the object which the hon. and gallant Officer had in view, or assist the House in determining what kind of a preventive system should be adopted. He thought that a knowledge of the precise extent to which desertion had gone in former years could afford no certain data on which to ground measures for its repression, and he apprehended that very considerable inconvenience must result to the public service, if it became publicly known how many persons had deserted from her Majesty's troops in a given period. He, therefore, hoped that the House would concur with the Government in refusing to comply with the call which the hon. and gallant Officer had made for the production of these returns. At the same time, he could assure the hon. and gallant Member that the subject to which the hon. Member had called his attention had not escaped the notice either of himself or of those who had preceded him in the War-office. A very long correspondence had taken place between the War-office and the military authorities in Canada, as to the discovery of means for checking the crime of desertion, which had prevailed there to a considerable extent. He was happy, however, to inform the hon. Member— and, considering the source from which he derived his intelligence, he could speak with some confidence on the subject—that since the commencement of the late unhappy disturbances, and from the time when the troops knew that their services were really wanted, there had not taken place actually one desertion. But, as he had said before, various measures had been proposed, and various plans were at this moment in operation, with a view to check the crime of desertion. It was now upwards of eighteen months, in fact nearly two years, since he had had the satisfaction, in bringing forward the army estimates of stating in that House that it had been determined by the Government to effect reliefs in our colonies in the manner suggested by the hon. and gallant Officer opposite. He could assure the hon. and
 827
 Viscount Howick  had not gone into a statement of the reasons which induced him to oppose the present motion because he understood from the opening speech of the hon. and gallant Member that he did not mean to press it to a division, and he should therefore have been uselessly taking up the time of the House. But his reason was, that he could not help fearing that if the number of deserters in Canada were printed and circulated by the authority of the House, it might possibly have the effect of suggesting the crime to the soldiers in that colony. No benefit had been pointed out which would result from printing the return; it was not such a return as the hon. Member for Middlesex desired, for it would simply state the number of desertions, and have no reference to the date of the first enlistment, and it would give the House no materials for the preparation of any measures which ought to be adopted to remedy the evil. Seeing no good, therefore, in the production, and fearing that some inconvenience might,
 830
 Sir H. Verney  rose to postpone the second reading of this Bill until after Easter. It was
 833
 Sir E. Knatchbull  thought, the better way would be, to read the Bill a second time at the present moment, and afterwards to send it for consideration to a Select Committee.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that, as there was great opposition to this Bill, and as some persons opposed the principle, and others the details, of the measure, he thought the course proposed by the hon. Member behind him (Sir H. Verney) was the most convenient that could be adopted. A Select Committee would have an opportunity of examining evidence, and the report of that Committee might enable the House to form a correct opinion on the subject. He had no wish that the measure should pass the second reading without full discussion.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that, if he understood the noble Lord to mean that the Committee would have the power of taking evidence, and of reporting their own opinions to the House, he should be glad if the course proposed were adopted.
 Mr. Pryme  said, the result of this Bill would be to impose a heavy burthen, and he should feel it to be his duty to give it the most strenuous opposition. In his opinion it was a most mischievous measure, and could be productive of not the slightest amount of good. His hon. Friend had, no doubt, introduced this Bill with the best intentions, as there was undoubtedly a grievance in regard to this subject for which a remedy was necessary. He had felt this to be the case, and had also introduced a measure with a view to remove the grievance, but his Bill and that of his hon. Friend were very different. He would, therefore, propose that both Bills should be referred to the proposed Committee, in order that they might take evidence and report in regard to each of the measures.
 Captain Pechell  objected to wasting the time of the House by a discussion on the propriety of postponing the second reading of this Bill. In his opinion it would have been better to have gone to the second reading at once, for it was impos-
 834
 Mr. M. Philips  wished to state, that in the borough he had the honour to represent, there were 33,000 rate-payers, to 18,000 of whom this Bill would have reference. It was, therefore, highly important that a measure affecting so large a portion of the people, should be fully considered. If the Bill of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Buckingham, and the Bill of the hon. Member for Cambridge, were referred to a Select Committee, he thought that the Bill of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, for the recovery of tenements, ought also to be referred to the same Committee, as the subject of all the three Bills was intimately connected.
 Mr. Briscoe  thought, a Bill of greater importance than that proposed to be introduced by the hon. Baronet, the Member for Buckingham, was seldom brought under the consideration of Parliament. The Bill affected the working millions, on whom the prosperity of the country chiefly depended, and, in his opinion, the time of the House could not be better employed than in discussing a subject so important, and affecting so large a portion of their countrymen. He could not, however, approve of the measure proposed, nor could he see how any Select Committee could render it acceptable to the House. There was not a single clause in the Bill to which he could give his support, and the very first clause contained a provision so unjust and injurious, that he was sure the House never could agree to it. If the Bill were sent to a Committee, it would come out from that Committee without a single clause remaining as it stood at present: but if the sense of the House were in favour of the course which had been proposed, he should not offer any further opposition to the measure.
 Viscount Sandon  rose to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, in what way he proposed to constitute the Committee—whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to name the Committee himself, or to leave the nomination to the hon. Mover of the motion before the House? He hoped the Government would take the matter into their own hands, as it was a measure affecting in a most important manner the internal government of the country.
 Mr. Wakley  also hoped the Government would feel it to be their duty to take the
 835
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that, though he had originally been willing to give every possible support to this Bill, yet he had always considered many of its details defective, and, after mature deliberation, he had come to the conclusion, that both the principle and details were so bad that he could support neither. There was no connexion between this Bill and the one he had introduced for the recovery of tenements, and he did not think, that they ought to go before the same Committee. He hoped, however, that the House would insist on the two Bills for rating of tenements, and on his own Bill, being taken up by her Majesty's Ministers. He had often wished the Government to take the measure he had brought forward into their own hands, but had never been able to induce them to do so. The Government had as yet brought forward no measure in relation to the law of landlord and tenant, notwithstanding what had been said on the subject in the report of the Civil Law Commissioners; and if they would take the three bills to which he had alluded, into their own hands, they might then bring forward some general measure embracing the object of the three bills now before the House. The whole subject would then be in the hands of those who ought to take the matter up, and he trusted the House would join with him in requesting Government to take the management of the whole three bills into their own power, and not leave the matter to the efforts of private Members of that House.
 Mr. Ayshford Sanford  said that he had intended to support the second reading of this bill, though there were many of its details which he should wish to see altered, but after what had passed, he thought the better course would be to refer the whole question, and not the bill itself, to a Select
 836
 Sir H. Verney  begged to assure the House that the turn which the discussion had taken, gave him as much satisfaction as if he had personally succeeded with his bill, and he greatly rejoiced that the whole question would be referred to a Select Committee under the responsibility of the Government.
 Mr. Baines  advised the Government to have nothing whatever to do with the bill, which was of a most obnoxious character, and would only bring odium upon them. It would be best, in his opinion, at once to dispose of the bill.
 Lord J. Russell  remarked, that this was not, by any means, a pleasant subject for the Government to take up, though he felt the full force of the suggestion, that if a measure of this kind were adopted, the occupiers of small tenements in country districts would be greatly relieved. On the other hand, however, the bill if passed in its present shape, would inflict a great hardship in several of the large towns, upon the owners and occupiers of small tenements. The subject was one deserving of inquiry, and he would, therefore, undertake to name a Select Committee which should be attended by some Member connected with the Government. Further than that he would not at present undertake.
 Sir R. Peel  trusted that when the Committee was appointed, the Members composing it would feel the importance of closing their investigation as soon as possible, consistent with a full and ample inquiry, as the question, remaining open, would throw a vast deal of property into embarrassment. The noble Lord thought that a bill of this kind would be a benefit to the country districts, but would inflict a hardship on the large towns. He begged to ask what effect it would have upon the owners of small tenements in the country, and trusted that point would be inquired into. It was well known that the owners of property in the country districts erected cottages to increase the comforts of the agricultural labouring population, without any adequate return in the way of rent, and if the consequences of such a bill should be to compel the owners to pay rates, he very much feared that their desire to accommodate the poor would be very much abated; for then, they would not only lose the interest of the money
 837
 Sir E. Sugden  thought this bill ought not to be passed without the public being satisfied that it had attracted the attention of both sides of the House. He thought it a dangerous precedent to come to this House for a remedy against a judicial decision. Nothing, generally speaking, could be worse than such a course, but in this case where the mischief arose from a technical point, he entirely agreed in the necessity of an immediate remedy, having a retrospective operation. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on a former evening had said, that it was intended in the Benefices Pluralities' Bill to provide as to the trading of clergymen. He had referred to that bill, but did not find any such provisions, and he trusted that some means would be taken to enable clergymen to embark their capital in fitting mercantile speculations. As regarded the proceedings still pending, he thought the clause relating to costs ought, instead of being discretionary, to be positive, and the party declared to be entitled to his costs, as he would be if the proceedings went on.
 The Solicitor General  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman on the great importance and delicacy of this measure, and said, that the suggestions thrown out would receive the fullest attention on the part of the Government.
 Mr. Barron  rose to move, that an Address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she would be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission to inquire into the constitution of the Board of Charitable Bequests in Ireland, and into the present charitable funds and property in this portion of the United Kingdom. The Board of Charitable Bequests, as at present constituted, did not fulfil those functions which it was expected to discharge at the period of its formation. The Board was composed of the judges of the land, and of the archbishops and bishops. What would be thought, if all the judges of England were appointed to manage the charitable bequests of England? Was it not as absurd
 891 l 892 893 894 l. l primâ facie l 895 l.; l. l. l. l., l., l.; l. l.; l. l. l.  896
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that after so many Commissions had been issued, he felt quite horrified at the proposition of
 897
 Mr. Wyse  defended the appointment of Commissioners, because he thought they were more competent to inquire into these matters than Committees, He considered it to be necessary to make a proper inquiry into these funds. The Board of Charitable Bequests was merely a Board for receiving applications made to them; but he contended there ought to be a Board maintaining a constant and vigilant observation from year to year over the administration of these charities. Members of his own family in Waterford had left a considerable portion of property, for the purpose of establishing alms-houses for poor men and women; but those bequests had never been carried into effect. The misapplication of funds of this description had the very worst moral influence in the country; it dulled the energy of benevolence, and prevented the application of funds to useful purposes, because a conviction lurked in the minds of men that if they made charitable bequests, there was no guarantee that those bequests would be properly applied. The misapplication of these funds had made religion a matter of monopoly.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, if he were called
 898 899
 Mr. Shaw  said, he could not but think it would be much better if the noble Lord would at once consent to take the matter into his own hands. Surely, no charge had been made—no case for inquiry into the constitution of the Board of Charitable Bequests had been made out; but even if there had, a commission was unnecessary, for that board was created by an Act of Parliament, a reference to which would give all the information that could either be afforded or required. He, therefore, hoped that the hon. Member would not press his motion, but accede to the suggestion of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that no inquiry was necessary into the constitution of the Board of Charitable Bequests; but it did not follow that there ought not to be an inquiry into the working of the board, and a general inquiry into the management of the charity property. He admitted that, as stated by the hon. Member (Mr. Wyse), the effort he had made some years ago to secure from local authorities, either grand juries or bodies of magistrates, an useful superintendence over the charities had
 900
 Mr. Barron  would, by the leave of the House, withdraw his motion, and give notice of his intention to bring in a bill embodying the principles suggested by his noble Friend, the Secretary for Ireland.
 Mr. Wallace  called the attention of the House to the petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Edinburgh (presented 5th of February), praying that no experiment on Mr. Rowland Hill's plan might be entertained, unless based on its main principles. Much alarm had been occasioned throughout the country by the notice given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of his being about to make an experiment of his own in contradistinction to that recommended by the Post-office Commissioners. In the course of last Session it was distinctly stated, that there commendations of the Commissioners with regard to the twopenny and threepenny postage being reduced to one penny, and the collection being made in advance by the use of stamp covers should have a fair trial. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer was asked in December last what he meant to do upon the subject, he replied, that he intended, instead of following the recommendation of the Commissioners, to bring in a bill to authorise the use of twopenny stamp covers, within the twopenny district. If the right hon. Gentleman had offered a premium for a plan by which to overthrow the recommendation of the Commissioners, a better mode could not have been devised. The Chamber of Commerce in Edinburgh, considering the great advantage that would accrue to the country from the adoption of a uniform system of charging postage, and of making a large reduction of the rates, had taken alarm at this proposal, and by their petition strongly urged upon the House that some means should be taken to prevent the right hon. Gentleman from following up his intention. On this occasion he would confine himself to this plain and simple question,
 901
 Mr. Wallace  would not occupy the time of the House in replying to the statements which had been made, but he must make one or two observations on the remarks of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the contracts for the packet service. In 1836 the St. George steam-packet company offered to carry the mails to Ireland for nothing; but what did the Government do? They refused this offer, but allowed in the same year an Act to be passed by Parliament limiting the liability of the company. This was done under the plea of assisting the inland navigation of Ireland; but 200,000 l l 906
 Mr. Wallace  again rose to comment on another petition which he had presented from the constituents of the right hon. Gentleman then in the chair. He thought that the great constituencies of Edinburgh and Glasgow had been hardly dealt with in not having a day mail, when Dublin, Manchester, Birmingham, and other places, had been allowed the benefit arising from this recommendation of the Post-office Commissioners. But these Commissioners had also recommended that Edinburgh and Glasgow should be included in the arrangement. He had been assured that the day mail to Dublin had been established at the request of the Irish government. To this he had no objection; but if the Irish government had the power of controlling the Post-office authorities, and of preventing the extension of a similar advantage to other parts of the kingdom, he did most seriously complain. He must insist that many of the recommendations of the Post-office Commissioners had not been complied with, and one — the most necessary of any to remedy the defects of the present system—the recommendation of placing the whole of the Post-office matters in the hands of Commissioners, had been, if not entirely overlooked, at least disregarded. The change had been recommended in the report of July, 1835; but the report had not been circulated till 1836: how it had been kept back, or by whom, he did not know; still it was not delivered. In February, 1836, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been asked whether he intended to carry into effect this recommendation? His answer was, that he intended to introduce a measure founded upon the report. It was not, however, till nearly the end of the Session, the 8th of July, that a bill was introduced; it then passed through its several stages in that House, and reached the other House on the 4th of August, and was on the 12th of August thrown out of the House of Lords, because there was not sufficient time at that late period of the Session to give due consideration to so important a subject. Thus, although the bill was promised in February, it was
 907 908
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not rise to object to the motion of the hon. Member, but he must complain of the hon. Member's unfairness in giving notice of one motion and then bringing forward another. The hon. Member had given notice that he should call upon the House to "consider the petition from Edinburgh, presented 5th February, for establishing a morning mail to Scotland." Instead of confining himself to this, he had made a distinct charge against the Government, and concluded with a motion for returns of what had been effected towards carrying out the Commissioners' reports. Such a course of proceeding was
 909 910
 Mr. Gillon  thought, that they ought to facilitate, by every means in their power, the transmission of letters and newspapers. The right hon. Gentleman had objected to the expense of establishing day mails, but he thought, that, having sent them to Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool, and Ireland, it would not be any great stretch of generosity to extend them to Scotland. The same mail would carry the Scotch as carried the Birmingham letters. At War-
 911
 Sir George Sinclair  was of opinion, that the establishment of a day mail would be a great convenience to the people of Scotland, and that it might be obtained at a comparatively trifling expense. He would call the attention of the House to the present position of the twopenny-postmen employed in London. They had recently had some additional onerous duties imposed upon them, without their receiving any additional pay.
 Mr. F. Baring  said, that he had no doubt, that the establishment of the day mail would be of great use to Edinburgh, but it was a matter in which he thought the House would not interfere. With regard to the wages paid to the twopenny-post letter-carriers, he was of opinion that the pay which they received was a sufficient remuneration for their services, al-
 912
 The Attorney-General  felt, that he ought not to allow this subject to be discussed without expressing a hope, that the officers of her Majesty's Government within whose province the matter lay, would give the subject their most serious and speedy consideration. He had no doubt, that the establishment of a day mail to Ireland was most useful; and he had no doubt, that it was proper that it should be seen whether the plan with regard to that portion of the kingdom succeeded before it should be carried into effect with reference to another portion of the kingdom. It had succeeded, and why was it not adopted now with regard to Scotland? The line was already formed to Liverpool, and the mail might be conveyed on without much additional expense. Not only Edinburgh, but the whole of Scotland was interested in the matter.
 The Solicitor-General  observed, that the case of such partners did not come within the operation of the 57th of George 3rd, and, therefore, it would be unnecessary to include them in the present Bill.
 Sir R. Peel  would take that opportunity to express his regret that the Government had not moved for the appointment of a Committee, composed of the most able lawyers and the most eminent mercantile men in the House, to consider the whole case. Had such a step been taken, this benefit would have resulted—that there would have been placed on the records of the House a statement of the reasons which had induced Parliament to interfere for the purpose of reversing the decision of a court of law. The appointment of a Committee would also have been followed by this advantage—that all the cases requiring a remedy would probably have been anticipated, whereas it was now not unlikely from the necessarily hurried manner in which the Bill must be passed through its different stages, that some of these cases would not be provided for. At the same time he admitted that a necessity had arisen which justified the adoption of an extraordinary measure like that now before the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could assure the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that but for the pressing nature of the case the Government would not have objected to the appointment of a Committee. Had the Government delayed to take immediate steps to provide a remedy in the emergency which had arisen, they
 919
 Sir E. Sugden  said, the only question to be considered was one in regard to time, for it was impossible to pass this Bill without a full investigation of its merits, and of the causes which' had rendered it necessary. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to think that the danger of being charged with timidity justified the course which the Government had pursued on this occasion; but was it possible for her Majesty's Ministers to ask any person to pass this Bill before it had been subjected to the investigation of a committee? He believed the House would not be asked to pass the Bill before a Committee had sat upon it, and it was upon that belief he had acted; and he therefore trusted that a full investigation would take place. The question, therefore, as regarded the appointment of a
 920
 Mr. Courtenay  said, it seemed to him that a general misunderstanding pervaded the House in regard to the proceedings in the Court of Exchequer. The fact was, that no positive decision had yet been given; an opinion only had been expressed, and the House was not legislating in consequence of the decision of a judge.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that facts had been stated of persons having already taken advantage, of the present state of the law; and as many more might, before the end of the week, avail themselves of the decision which had been given in the Court of Exchequer, to resist payment of their lawful debts, he thought the Government perfectly justified in the course they had adopted.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the opinion he had before expressed had been confirmed by what had fallen from his hon. Friend (Mr. Courtenay). The House was in fact called upon to act in regard to a decision which had not yet been given.
 Mr. Courtenay  could assure the House that no decision had yet been given. The judge had expressed an opinion, but had refused to give a final judgment till the special demurrer which had been taken should have been argued.
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that that was what he had stated, and he thought, before the Legislature had been called upon to interfere, there ought to have been a decision. The right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had stated that the Government would have been charged with timidity if they had acted in a different manner from what they had done; and he took credit to himself for the course they had pursued; but he could not conceive a more unnecessary display of courage than had been made by the Government on the present occasion. The right hon. Gentleman said, "See what magnanimity we possess in bringing forward the present measure on our own responsibility;" but he (Sir R. Peel) could give the right hon. Gentleman no credit for the course he had pursued, or the magnanimity he had displayed. The
 921
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was quite satisfied that the course which the Government had pursued was perfectly justified by the circumstances. He, however, begged to say, that he had made no claim to courage in bringing forward the present measure, and he had only stated that the objection of timidity might have been raised against the Government.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that to all intents and purposes there had been a judgment. The court had decided that two clergymen being Members of a joint-stock company, the company could not enforce payment of a just debt. That decision, he thought fully justified the present measure, although he acknowledged that no formal judgment had been entered on the record.
 Mr. Courtenay  thought, that the circumstance stated by the Solicitor-General made an important difference in this case, so far as the Legislature was concerned. It was certainly important to know whether a judgment or merely an opinion had been given.
 Mr. Maule  thought the Government perfectly justified in the course they had adopted, but he did not think the bill would apply to every case. It simply had reference to mere shareholders, and would not apply to those clergymen who were Members of the direction of joint-stock companies.
 Sir W. Follett  thought, that if the bill was to be made retrospective in its operation it ought to take in all parties. With respect to the interference of the bill with pending suits, it would be recollected by the House, that last Session a bill was introduced which affected causes that had arisen under the operation of the Municipal Corporation Act. He did not say that the bill ought to be made to apply to a case
 922 bonâ fide
 The Solicitor-General  intimated that he should make such alterations in the bill as would make it applicable to clergymen, whether they were directors, managers, or shareholders.
 Mr. Aglionby  hoped that the learned Attorney-General would not confine his Bill to defining the limits of manors only, but that he would direct his attention also to lande within manors.
 Lord Eliot  wished to ask a question of the President of the Board of Trade. As, however, he did not see that right hon. Gentleman in his place, perhaps some other Member of the Government would be able to give him an answer. He had seen it stated, that it was the intention of the French Government to impose a considerable additional
 890
 Lord John Russell  regretted that his right hon. Friend was not present, as the hon. Gentleman had alluded to what had fallen from him a few nights ago. The hon. Gentleman said, that his right hon. Friend had fallen into an error respecting the state of education in the colony, but he did not think that what had been stated by the hon. Gentleman shook in the slightest degree the statement of the right hon. Gentleman or any other person on this subject. His right hon. Friend said, that the constituent body that elected the House of Assembly of Lower Canada was remarkably ignorant, and that the very great majority, as he said, and a large proportion, as others asserted, could nei-
 916
 Lord John Russell  said, that for the sake of uniformity it might be desirable to agree to the motion, but he thought that it would be better to leave the matter to the discretion of the Speaker.
 Lord J. Russell  owned it did not appear to him to be especially incumbent on the Government to give an opinion upon this Bill. It was a matter of general legislation, upon which individual Members, being as much interested, were as much bound to give an opinion as the Government. He confessed, however, that in his mind it was not a matter of legislation of very high importance. He was ready to assent to a qualification, because he thought public opinion was in favour of a qualification; but as to any great particular advantage to be gained from it, he
 926 927 bona fide
 Lord John Russell  said, that as the Canada Government Bill had been returned from the other House with only one amendment, the House would probably permit him now to proceed with it. The amendment made by the Lords was merely a provision requiring Members of the Special Council to take the oaths of allegiance before sitting or voting at the board. He therefore moved the House to agree with the Lords' amendment.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would be glad to see the amount of qualification trebled, instead of being diminished. If the present bill was allowed to pass, he could not see how a fellow possessed of a common country stallion, whose labours produced him an income of 300 l
 Sir Edward Sugden : The House seemed to be agreed on all sides, that there ought to be some alteration of the qualification. There must be time allowed to see what that alteration ought to be. He would therefore propose, that the Chairman do now report progress, and ask leave to sit again, in order that time might be obtained to consider the subject, and to frame the necessary clauses.
 Sir E. Sugden  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman on the Treasury bench whether it was the intention of her Majesty's Government to take any part in this bill? It was of so important a nature that it ought to attract the attention of the Government. It appeared to him that the real object of the bill was to give that which was not really a qualification the character of a qualification, while it provided no means of testing the qualification of any persons who might be elected to represent a borough or county in that House. It was true that at present it was possible to evade the law. But he understood the real object of the hon. Member for Bridport to have been, to get rid of all qualifications. Not succeeding in that, however, he had now proposed a bill to establish something in shape or form of a qualification, but which in fact was a mere nullity, and intended to effect the other object. He was of opinion, that the greater the extent of the franchise, the more reason there was for a sure and proper qualification on the part of the representative. A man, either by inheritance, or by his own talent and industry working his way up in the world, might become possessed of property which would give an assurance to his constituency that he would perform his duties in a satisfactory manner. He did not mean to say that a man would neglect his duty because he was not possessed of property, but the possession of property was a security to the country in the case of a Member of Parlia-
 923
 Mr. Goulburn  did not oppose the motion of the learned Attorney-General; but he was glad to find that he had omitted
 914
 Mr. Goulburn  did not intend to object to the motion, but did not clearly understand the object of the hon. Member. It appeared, that at present the list of names in a division in Committee was given. By giving all the amendments introduced into a bill in Committee, the votes would be swelled to a most voluminous extent. The amendments could not be given short so as to make them intelligible, for a division in Committee frequently took place on the motion to leave out a single word, which often involved the most important considerations.
 Mr. Goulburn  concurred in the view taken of this subject by his right hon. Friend who had just sat down, and especially that care should be taken to prevent the "loose dealing" (of which the noble Lord had spoken) in funded property. Perhaps it might be thought that this was a question in which he ought not to interpose, inasmuch as he was one of those from whom no property qualification was required. But it should be remembered that the Members for the Universities were required to have some qualification in
 929
 Mr. Labouchere  replied, it was undoubtedly true, that there was a probability of an increased duty being imposed by the French Government on linen and cotton yarn exported from this country into France. The Government of this country had made representations on this subject to the Government of France; but he was bound to say, that there was no reason to believe, that there was any chance of the Government of France acceding to those representations.
 Mr. Labouchere  begged to state, that so far from the recommendations of the Commissioners a pointed to inquire into the Post-office establishment not being attended to and supported by the Government, he (as one of those Commissioners) knew there had been on the part of the Government a most anxious desire to carry those recommendations into effect. When the Commission was appointed it was stated that the Commissioners would be a mere screen to the Government to stave off all reform, and that there was no real intention of looking into the abuses of the Post-office. He on that occasion gave a pledge in his own name, and in the name of his Colleagues, that they were determined to look fully and fairly into the subject, with a desire to lay before the public the sincere impressions which the inquiry might make upon them, and he now trusted that by the course they had taken, the expectations of the country had not been disappointed. The Commissioners made their reports without any communication or previous consultation with the Post-office or the Treasury, as they might have done, in order to ascertain whether the opinions of those authorities coincided with their own before being promulgated to the world. It must necessarily have sometimes happened that there should be a difference of opinion between the Commissioners and those two departments. He believed that the Commissioners would not have done their duty if they had by previous communications endeavoured to avoid that difference of opinion. At the same time they had no right to blame the Post-office authorities or the Government for exercising their own judgment with respect to the recommendations of the Commissioners. Nevertheless, he was not aware until this report with regard to the twopenny post-office came under consideration, that any important recommendation of the Commissioners had not been carried into effect as far as lay in the power of the Government. He denied that it was the fault of the Government that the Post-office had not been placed under the management of
 904
 Mr. Warburton  would merely observe, that during the discussions which preceded the passing of the Reform Bill, when the qualification of Members elected to serve in Parliament came under the consideration of the House, a minister of the Crown stated, in his place, that it was never intended that the statutes regulating the qualification, should bear a stringent construction or be rigidly adhered to; that the only object was to secure the return of Members who would be respectable in station and character; that the object was not that they should actually possess the qualification required, but that they should be of a sufficient degree of respectability. Such, too, was the simple object of his bill. The number of petitions presented during the present Session against persons returned for not possessing the requisite qualification, was eighteen. That would serve to show the extent in which it was doubtful whether Members returned duly elected, possessed the requisite qualification or not. During the last Session, one
 924 l l
 Mr. Warburton  could not consent to extend the qualification merely to funded property, when he knew many leaseholds as good as freeholds. He had no objection to withdraw the provisions in the Bill as to professional incomes, and leave the qualification to be upon real and personal property of a tangible character. He desired also to equalise the amount of the county qualification to that now necessary for a borough qualification, viz., 300 l
 Mr. Warburton  remarked, that his hon. Friend proposed that the amendments in Committee should only be inserted in the votes when a division took place.
 The Speaker  stated, that he was most anxious to afford every facility regarding the printing of the votes which would meet the feeling of the House. The House, he was sure, was aware that the votes should be drawn up in such a manner as not to be too voluminous, so that they could be printed and delivered as soon as possible in the morning. Most hon. Members were anxious that the votes should be delivered at their several residences before they left their houses in the morning, and he hoped that the House would not hastily come to a decision which would swell the size of the votes in such a degree that it would often happen that they could not be printed until a late hour. If the hon. Member chose to leave the matter in his hands, he would endeavour to adopt some arrangements to meet his views. He would avail himself of the present opportunity of making a suggestion in another matter connected with the printing the votes. It often happened that when the
 918
 Mr. Hume  would willingly leave the matter in the hands of the Speaker, and withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Hume  proposed a motion to the effect that every motion in a Committee of the whole House in which a division takes place, be recorded and reported in the votes of the day, and the number and names of the Members voting be recorded, in the same manner as in the divisions in the House. The motion had already been agreed to by the House, but had not been acted
 917
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the statement of the noble Lord merely rested on his own authority; he should produce something like proofs if he wished to remove all doubt on the subject. The charge of ignorance, however, did not justify the depriving of the people of Canada of their constitution. If this were the case, the ignorance of the people in many parts of England would afford a justification for taking away their civil rights.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had a variety of returns to move for respecting Canada, but in the absence of the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies he should abstain from making any observations. The hon. Member moved for various returns. The hon. Member said, he was sorry that the right hon. Member for Coventry was not in his place, for if he were he believed that the right hon. Gentleman would have availed himself of the opportunity of giving an explanation of a statement he made the other night, that not more than two in a hundred of the constituency of Lower Canada could read or write. He believed that the right hon. Gentleman in his statement alluded altogether to the elder part of the population, and not to the rising generation. He was authorised to state, that since 1833 there had been founded in that colony 1,216 schools, which had not less than 65,000 scholars. This was a very large proportion, for the whole population of the colony did not exceed 800,000. It was also stated, in that which he believed to be the best history of Lower Canada, namely, that written by Mr. Macgregor, "that the schools
 915 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that the object of his hon. Friend (Mr. Wallace) was precisely that which the right hon. Gentleman professed to be his; namely, that no alteration should be made until the whole plan had been fully determined upon. The right hon. Gentleman, however, said he was willing to make a partial attempt to carry Mr. Hill's plan into effect. It was not a partial trial of that plan, because Mr. Hill suggested the reduction of the duty to a penny. Two years had elapsed since the right hon. Gentleman declared that the present system should be altered; yet nothing had been done. The Post-office Commissioners had made ten reports, and he remembered no instance in which so many recommendations of a commission had been left unnoticed. He admitted that several useful alterations
 903
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was his intention to propose any reduction in the duty on the importation of French brandy into this country. It was hardly consistent for this country to complain of the French Government putting a duty of 100 per cent. on British produce, while we levied a duty of 700 per cent. on an important article of French exportation.
 Mr. Thomas Duncombe : Seeing the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his place, I wish to put a question to him on a subject which engaged much attention last Session, and on which the public are now getting anxious for some information. I allude to the subject of Church-rates. I wish to ask my right hon. Friend whether it is the intention of her Majesty's Ministers to proceed at once by the introduction of a Bill for the abolition of Church-rates, or whether it is their intention to revive that most desirable inquiry as to the manner in which Church leases are granted and renewed, which was commenced last Session, and abruptly terminated by the demise of the Crown?
 Mr. Hawkes  thought, that funded property should be admitted as a qualification as well as land. He was disposed to support the view taken of the subject by the hon. Member for Aylesbury.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : At an earlier period in the present Session a similar question was addressed to my noble Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and I have great pleasure in repeating the answer he then gave. It is the intention of her Majesty's Government to move the re-appointment of the Committee to which the hon. Member alludes, and to found whatever enactments may be necessary upon the recommendations of that Committee, after it shall have entered into a full and extended inquiry into this very important subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  presumed that the only object of the present motion was to raise a discussion. To that he had no objection. He should ill discharge his duty, and not be showing that respect which he entertained for a Committee of this House, if he were to prejudge a question which was now under the consideration of a Committee up stairs. He had been called upon to consider the propriety of adopting Mr. Hill's plan. For that gentleman he entertained very great respect, but he could not, in deference to Mr. Hill's judgment, hazard the loss of an enormous amount of revenue. If he had made the experiment of Mr. Hill's plan, and had reduced the postage of all letters from their present amount to a penny, the increase in the number of letters that would be required to be delivered by the Post-office in order to prevent a loss would be from their present amount of 43,000,000 to somewhere about 400,000,000. No person on earth could imagine that any permanent arrangement could be made that would augment the correspondence in this country within any limited period to such an extent. All existing arrangements would have to be reorganised, and that upon a mere hypothesis. He would not presume to say that Mr. Hill's plan was wrong. Indeed he had consented to the appointment of a Committee, to whom that plan was submitted, and he thought it would be only prudent to await the report of that Committee, in order to see whether they considered it feasible The twopenny postage was an increasing source of revenue, which clearly proved that the present rate
 902
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it did not follow, that because France proposed to increase the duty on an article of British produce, we should reduce the duty on an article of French production. He did not consider such a mode of argument logical. In reply to the question which had been put to him, he would only answer, that he had no intention of proposing any reduction of the duty on French brandy imported into this country.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the experiment of the stamped covers was not of his seeking. He had not the slightest difficulty, if the same Gentlemen who first wished to see the experiment tried were now desirous that it should be suspended, to accede to their request. With regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Kilkenny as to the recommendations of the Commissioners not having been acted upon, he wished to remark, that it was much easier for Commissioners and Members of Parliament to lay down a principle than for those who were charged with the execution of it to apply that principle. No principle was laid clown more authoritatively than that of applying the system of contracts to our packet communications. Every body seemed to consider that there was no port in which that experiment could be better tried than in the port of Liverpool. Parties informed him that if the unjust competition of the Government packets against the owners of the commercial packets were withdrawn, those owners were of that character that they would undertake to discharge the duty of carrying the mail for nothing. He and the Admiralty had been engaged from that time to the present in trying whether they could ob-
 905 l l
 Mr. Praed  would either go farther than the hon. Member for Bridport, or he would not go so far. That the bill was, in some respects, an improvement he did not mean to deny. He thought, however, the hon. Member's bill went too far in allowing professional income to amount to a qualification. The qualification arising from the possession of funded property, was a great improvement as far as it went. It may, perhaps, admit of a question, whether it was desirable to have any qualification at all. The great objection to the present system was, not that it exclusively permitted landed property to be the qualification, but that it gave occasion for gross frauds. That inconvenience would continue just as much under the present bill. With reference to the quotations made by the hon. Member for Bridport,
 925 l l
 The Attorney-General  said, that in rising to move for leave to bring in several Bills to amend the law as it at present stood with regard to real property, he should feel it necessary to occupy the attention of the House only for a few moments. The Bills which he proposed to introduce were substantially the same as those which had been introduced in a former session, and they were founded on the report of the Real Property Commissioners. The first was a Bill to facilitate the enfranchisement of lands of copyhold and customary tenures. He had wished to abolish the tenures altogether, as he knew they were attended with very great inconvenience, in producing disputes between the lords of ma-
 913
 Sir R. Inglis  recollected a case which occurred about two or three Parliaments ago, which went to show that a conveyance, which was considered as a mere accommodation, did actually vest in the Member for whose accommodation it was done, the absolute right to the property, &c, conveyed. It was held in a court of law, that the creditors of the person to whom the land was conveyed for the purpose of enabling him to qualify were entitled to the property in payment of debts. The best qualification, as it appeared to him, consisted in lands, whether freehold, copyhold, or leasehold, and the next best was money in the funds.
 Sir Robert Peel  thought, that the difficulty to the Bill and the difficulty to the parties to whom it would apply would be in making the declaration, which was to be considered as equal to an oath. The Bill required, that Gentlemen elected as Members of Parliament should declare, that according to the best of their knowledge and belief they were entitled to sit and vote in the House of Commons. Now, suppose the case of a professional man, whose usual income did not exceed 100 l l l 928 l
 Sir R. Peel  did not, when the right hon. Member for Coventry stated that the people of Canada were educated in the proportion of two in a hundred, understand him to pledge himself as to the precise number of the educated and uneducated people there. He believed the right hon. Gentleman meant to imply that the state of education was so limited in Canada that a great part of the population who enjoyed the elective franchise, were not able to form a very accurate judgment on the matters involved in dispute.
 Sir R. Peel  could not consent to the undertaking the hon. Member for Bridport desired. He repeated, that he was ready to add personal to the existing landed qualification, but he could not commit himself to the proposition for making the qualification for counties the same as that required for boroughs. He reserved himself also on the question as to the amount of the qualification.
 Lord John Russell  thanked the hon. and learned Gentleman for the temperate tone in which he had discussed the measure. If the hon. and learned Gentleman paid a very just compliment to the disposition of the House during the last session to discuss the question without any mixture of party feeling, he must say, that the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech of that evening was well calculated to keep up that disposition; for nothing had fallen from him that could possibly tend either to excite party feeling, or to produce an acrimonious disposition with regard to the proposed law either in that House or in Ireland. He differed very widely from the view of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He had stated on a former occasion the grounds upon which he thought the introduction of a Poor-law advisable for Ireland, and many of those reasons it was unnecessary for him to repeat; but at the same time he would state some of the grounds upon which it appeared to him that the hon. and learned Gentleman was mistaken, both in his general conclusions with respect to the operation of Poor-laws and in the ground of his opposition to the present Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman had very fairly and very candidly declared at the outset of his speech that he was against compulsory relief altogether—that whatever the merits or demerits of the Bill, no system of Poor-laws for Ireland which imposed compulsory relief would satisfy his objections. The hon. and learned Gentleman held that compulsory relief was altogether an error—that it dried up the sources of private charity, and ought not to be resorted to by any state. That was perhaps too large a question to enter upon
 966 967 968 l. l. l. l. 969 970 971 "Upon the best consideration which we have been able to give to the whole subject, we think that a legal provision should be made and rates levied as hereinafter mentioned, for the relief and support of incurable as well as curable lunatics, of idiots, epileptic persons, cripples, deaf and dumb, and blind poor, and all who labour under permanent bodily infirmities; such relief and support to be afforded within the walls of public institutions; also for the relief of the sick poor in hospitals, infirmaries, and convalescent establishments, Dr by external attendance and a supply of food as well as medicine, where the persons to be relieved are not in a state to be removed from home; also for the purpose of emigration, for the support of penitentiaries to which vagrants may be sent, and for the maintenance of deserted children; also towards the relief of aged and infirm persons, of orphans, of helpless widows with young children, of the families of sick persons, and of casual destitution." 972 973
 Mr. Sham  agreed with the noble Lord that the time was come when some mode of public relief must be afforded to the poor of Ireland. When, on a former evening, he ventured to say, that he anticipated on all sides of the House a general concurrence in the proposition that there must be a Poor-law in Ireland, so far as he referred to the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Dublin, he certainly rather bore in mind the observations which the hon. and learned Gentleman made on the subject last year than the notice upon which he had moved the amendment tonight. For, if he recollected aright, the hon. and learned Gentleman said last year that he thought the time had come when it was imperative that some legal provisions should be made for the poor of Ireland; he said that he was not sanguine of the success of any such measure, still that he not only would not vote against the measure, but, if necessary, would give it his support. The reasons which the hon. and learned Gentleman on that occasion gave for adopting such a course were, in his opinion, no less cogent at the present moment. On the contrary, he thought that circumstances had rather strengthened them, and that the general social and political condition of Ireland did not now less imperatively demand a remedy. He was not one of those who entertained any very sanguine hopes of the present measure. He did not believe that any one measure, whether a Poor-law or otherwise,
 974 975 976 977
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  observed, that the objections of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin resolved themselves into two parts—objections to the principle and objections to the details of the Bill—the first of which appeared to be founded in error, and the latter were capable of remedy in Committee. His own experience of the opinions of the shopkeepers and smaller occupiers in Ireland led him to form a directly contrary conclusion to that come to by the hon. and learned Gentleman; for he thought that they did care for the Bill. He lived in the adjoining county to that of the hon. and learned Member, and he had heard frequent complaints of the swarms of what were called "Kerry almanacs." The hon. Member also objected to the Bill that it would tend to repress the kindly feelings of the people. Such to a certain extent he would admit to be probable; but was it just that a poor family, themselves bordering on starvation, should, as they frequently now did, diminish their little allowance by supporting an orphan child; or that a poor cotter, having little enough for his own children, should, as he had known to be the case, receive into his house a child infected with the small-pox, thereby rendering his own children sufferers? Was this a proper state in which to leave the poor of that country? Great stress had also been laid by the hon. and learned. Gentleman on the vast amount of
 978 d. 979 l. 980 981
 Mr. Lucas  would not support the amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, because he could not coincide in his opinion, that, as there was a great deal of poverty, perhaps destitution, in Ireland, therefore they should make no legislative attempt to afford relief to the one or the other. He thought they should enter upon the subject, as they had done last year, free from all party feeling, determined patiently to consider the Bill before them, to allow it to go into Committee, and there endeavour to render it, as far as possible, what it professed to be. He concurred in the principle, but not in all the details, of the Bill. It was certainly highly desirable, that the poorer classes in Ireland should be relieved from the burthen of almsgiving to which they were at present subjected, and he would, if on that account alone, give his support to a Poor-law Bill. That burthen was deeply felt in Ireland. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member, in the fullest extent, as to the humane and meritorious feelings which induced the people of Ireland to bear that burthen. There was no people under heaven who made such sacrifices to relieve their distressed relations, or performed so much casual charity, as the people of that country; but he did not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that that was not felt by them to be what it was—a heavy burthen, or that they would not be very glad to get rid of it, if a substitute were provided. He would mention a very creditable circumstance to bear out that opinion. An excellent landlord, watchful of the comforts of his tenantry, and who was in the habit of having their cabins annually whitewashed, was thus addressed by one of them, after the interior of his habitation
 982 983 eclat, 984 l. s. 1. s. d. 1. s. d. 985
 Mr. Redington  believed, that the Irish people were the most charitable on the face of the earth; but notwithstanding the amount of charity which they dispersed, there existed still a vast amount of destitution in the country, and when voluntary charity was not sufficient to meet the exigency of the case, it was incumbent upon Parliament to interfere. He did not regard a Poor-law as the panacea for all the ills of Ireland. No one legislative enactment could remove the accumulated evils of a long course of misgovernment; but the adoption of a well-regulated system of Poor-laws would do much to beget a better order of things in Ireland, under which the country would improve; it would destroy undue competition for land, and while it would relieve the occupier, would tend to connect the proprietor of the soil, wherever and whoever he might be, with the tenants on his estate. He could not support the amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and he hoped when the bill had reached the Committee that the hon. and learned Gentleman would do all in his power to make the measure as unobjectionable as possible. The bill, if passed in its present shape, would be altogether inefficient. With respect to a law of settlement and the workhouse system, he was as much opposed to the former as he was favourable to the adoption of the latter. No doubt the workhouse was a severe test, but if it were not adopted, there would be no check to the greatest abuse; and, beginning with the workhouse system, they might afterwards extend the measure as much as the necessity of the case might be found to require. But if they did not commence with the workhouse, it would be impossible ever afterwards to resort to it. He objected particularly to the powers of the Commissioners; indeed, although he acquitted the Government of any such intention, it appeared to him as if the object of the bill were to appoint Commissioners
 986
 Colonel Conolly  was afraid the present plan was one of too great magnitude. It would have been much better, in his opinion, if they had confined themselves in the first instance, to an immediate provision for the infirm, the aged, and impotent. Relief might afterwards have been gradually and beneficially extended to the other classes of the poor. He hoped the rating would be as local as possible, confined to the barony, if not to the parish. Economy would then be strictly enforced. The hon. and learned Member for the city of Dublin had said, there were many most impoverished districts in the county he had the honour to represent; it was so undoubtedly, and in his own opinion it was incumbent upon the landlords to pay for their improvement—for he considered this Poor-law practically in the nature of a penalty on the neglect of Irish property. He was inclined to think the proportion of rating suggested as fair and equitable between the parties, and he believed the landlords of Ireland would gladly submit to bear a heavy charge for the purpose of adequately relieving the prevalent distress.
 Mr. O. Gore  supported the amendment, and objected to the Bill for two reasons, The first was the system of workhouses, and the other that of emigration, which its provisions embraced. He considered that the workhouse principle would be prejudicial to the habits and utterly subversive of the best feelings of the Irish people, and would be productive of evil, inasmuch as it would force a great mass of the Irish pauper population to quit Ireland for this country, where they could live at little expense, and where they would much rather live than be driven into a workhouse. With respect to the rates, in his opinion no rate could be levied in Ireland that would not eventually fall upon the owners
 987
 Mr. Litton  considered, that the Bill was at least worthy of the attention of the House, if it should only be found calculated to settle two or three important points. At all events, the destitution of the aged and infirm ought to be provided for, and the least that could be said of this Bill was, that it would have the effect of providing a remedy against such distressing cases; and that alone shewed that the subject was one of great national importance. It was impossible to frame a Bill that was not liable to objections of some sort, and he considered this measure ought to be allowed to go into Committee, if only on the principle that they were bound to try some remedy for destitution. It was a work of charity in which they were engaged, and he had little doubt that he should see the measure ere long supported by all the hon. Members from that country for whose benefit it was introduced.
 Mr. Barron  approved entirely of the principle of the Bill, and agreed with most of its details. He considered it so good a measure as it at present stood, that he did not see how it could be materially amended in Committee. With respect to a law of settlement, it would be an absurdity to introduce a measure giving a settlement
 988
 Mr. John Young  said, that amidst all the objections which had been made to the proposed measure, no one offered any plan in its room. He was very glad that a plan of emigration formed part of the Bill. He was disposed to think this among the best of the means of affording relief to the pauper population of Ireland, and he preferred it infinitely above the project of home colonization, to which allusion had been made, and with regard to which he thought that there were reports and papers enough on the table to show satisfactorily that pauper labour never could remunerate the state which employed it. With respect to the system of poor relief embodied in this Bill, let it be remembered that amidst all that had been said and written on this subject in this country for many years past, this was the only one that came recommended by the opinions of practical men. He thought the establishment of workhouses would prove most beneficial to the people of Ireland, especially if managed on the wise and benevolent system which had been adopted in most workhouses in England, and which he found detailed in the last report of the Poor-law Commissioners, and detailed (he was informed by a gentleman who had paid great attention to the state of the workhouses in different parts of the
 989
 Mr. J. Gibson  should support the amendment. A Poor-law, however valuable in itself, was not applicable to Ireland, owing to the peculiar circumstances of that country. To establish workhouses without law of settlement was, in his opinion; altogether chimerical; but, above all, by the operation of this law, the burden of a pauper population, arising in a vast number of instances almost entirely from neglect of duty on the part of the absentee landlord, would be thrown on the resident landlord—the very man who was accustomed to spend large sums and devote much time and labour to the improvement of the pauper population.
 Sir F. Trench  hoped, notwithstanding the panegyric which had been pronounced by the hon. Member for Waterford upon workhouses, that he should never see
 990
 Mr. Jervis , in rising to move an amendment of which he had given notice, said, that he had some reason to complain of the course pursued by the noble Lord, but he was willing to allow that subject to pass. He should now move that the Bill before the House should be re-committed, with, an instruction that, after the passing of the Bill, no sum of money should be taken by any overseer or other person in respect to the registration of any voter. The object he had in view was to get rid of the shilling at present paid at the time of registration, and which was objected to by all parties. It was paid by the 50 l 993 l. l. l.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that it appeared to him that the petition stated that as a fact which really was not so. Nobody could doubt that the allegations in the petition went directly to verify what had been stated by the hon. Member for Finsbury. In his opinion, no language could more strongly convey the allegation of perjury against the Roman Catholic Members than that which was used in the petition. The Members to whom the petition adverted, instead of doing that which was alleged, had done all that they could to assist the House to improve the condition of the church. He believed that all the statements in the petition were utterly futile and groundless. The Roman Catholic Members, together with the other Gentlemen on that side of the House, had done all in their power to remove from the Church of England all the abuses which existed in it. This being his opinion, he should support the motion for the rejection of the petition.
 Mr. Miles  called upon the hon. and learned Member for Chester, not to allow himself to be led away from his declared intention of dividing the House.
 Mr. Williams  said, that he for one should be most anxious to have the proposition of the hon. and learned Member introduced if there was any chance of passing it. He must say, however, that the proposition had nothing whatever to do with the present bill, and he would, therefore, recommend the hon. and learned Gentleman not to press it to a division.
 Mr. Jervis  said, that if the Government would undertake to bring in a bill to accomplish the object of his motion, he would waive his objection to the present bill.
 Mr. Warburton  had strong objections to the clauses in the Bill by which property could be taken from an insane person, and by which the restoration of that property was not enforced when the person was declared of sane mind, and dismissed from the
 1001 Barneby
 Mr. Barneby  would not object to postpone the third reading, but he wished to say a few words in regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury. The word "summon" was not in the Bill; nor by the clause, as framed, could any medical man be obliged to attend on the call of a magistrate to investigate the condition of persons supposed to be insane. He might further state, that he had no objection to leave out the words "goods and chattels", so as to adapt the clause
 1002
 Colonel Butler  seconded the motion.
 Lord John Russell  was exceedingly sorry that any thing should have fallen from him when the hon. and learned Member asked him to put off his Bill, which should have caused the hon. and learned Gentleman any irritation of mind. He could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that he (Lord J. Russell) had acted from what he conceived to be his duty. He had told the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he spoke to him in private, that he considered that his motion did not immediately relate to the present Bill. If he thought that the motion related to the Bill, he should have undoubtedly, out of courtesy, put off the day for proceeding with the Bill; but, looking at the motion as having nothing to do with the Bill, he did not consider that he would be acting justly by the Bill if he postponed the day of bringing it forward. As to the question itself, the
 994 995
 Mr. C. Buller  suspected that the good-natured suggestions of hon. Members on the other side of the House were intended
 997 l Cheers.
 Mr. Harvey : As the hon. Member who had just sat down was very properly considered to have a patent of facetiousness, he was not at all surprised that he should treat in that light the evident temporary coalition between the hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House and her Majesty's Ministers. He was, then, to understand that the Ministers were distinct from the Radicals, and that they desired to be so. For his purpose, how-
 998
 Mr. Horsman  understood the petitioners to avow, that the conduct of hon. Members was not consistent with the securities given. He might have misunderstood the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Plumptre) but he understood such to be the averment of the petitioners, and that they distinctly impugned the conduct of certain Members.
 Sir E. Sugden  called upon all hon. Members on all sides of the House to support the very reasonable proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Chester. What was the cause of the objection made by her Majesty's Ministers? It was not because the proposition was unreasonable, but because it exhibited to the House and the country themselves and their friends in opposition on a public question. He thought that the subject of the motion of the hon. and learned Member properly belonged to the present bill.
 Mr. Barron  expressed the hope that the hon. Member for Finsbury would withdraw his opposition to the reception of this petition. He was one of the parties against whom the vile slanders had been made, and he despised them. The Catholic Members could afford to be slandered; and he, for his part, was always anxious that discussion should be had on these subjects. He stood there in defence of his honesty, his opinion, and the construction of the oaths he had taken; and he thought he was as capable of putting a construction on them as any man in or out of that House. He courted investigation, and defied the calumnies, the slanders, and falsehoods put forth on this occasion. He could say that he had acted conscientiously, and as an honest man, in the votes which he had given, and which were alluded to in the petition. He also
 947
 The Speaker  observed, that he had no difficulty in stating the opinion he entertained upon the question. When there was any doubt, he was always disposed to give it in favour of the reception of the petition. By a certain train of reasoning, the petition certainly implied that a certain class of Members in that House had violated an oath; but then the House ought to remember that it was a mere matter of opinion, and rested entirely upon the view or interpretation which the different parties put upon the oath. As his opinion had been called for, he would state that there was one objection to the petition which had not been mentioned. It was the rule that no petition was received which complained, or took notice of any statements or proceedings which had taken place within that House. The petition before the House alluded to proceedings which had taken place within that House, and complained of the conduct of certain Members. It then became a question, whether by receiving it they would not tend to open the door for complaints being made of the manner in which Members performed their duty.
 Mr. Briscoe  begged to join in the recommendation not to divide the House. He was as sincere a Reformer as the hon. and learned Member for Chester, but there were times when it became the best and most sincere Reformers not in their zeal to overstep the bounds of prudence, and thus play the game of the enemies of Reform. He would suggest to the hon. and learned Gentleman whether the appeals of hon. Members of the other side of the House could have been made out of any feeling friendly to the cause in which he, in common with the hon. and learned Gentleman was engaged. He earnestly implored the hon. and learned Member for Chester not to persist in dividing the House.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, the petitioners considered that the security intended to be given by the act of 1829 had not been sufficient security. He thought that they did not mean to reflect on the character of Members, and conceived there was nothing in the language or prayer of the petition to exclude it from being received.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he had a petition to present from 2,600 Protestants—persons of the highest respectability and property—upon the subject of the concession of legislative power to the Roman Catholics. The petitioners stated
 942 943
 Mr. Brotherton  hoped that Gentlemen on his side of the House would not be deluded by the motion, of the hon. and learned Member for Chester. He considered that the Registration Bill would be the proper place to introduce the subject. He thought that the payment of the shilling was not a matter of the importance attributed to it, for he knew that several revising barristers had declared that it was not necessary to entitle a party to the right of voting.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged the House to understand how this Question really stood. He would take the liberty of asking those hon. Gentlemen who were anxious for a relaxation of the rate-paying clauses, whether they could effect that purpose by impeding the progress of the present bill? The hon.
 996
 Mr. Wakley  begged to remind the House, that a short time ago, in consequence of an intimation from the chair, and in consequence also of an understanding that it was the sense of the House, he withdrew a petition which contained an expression deemed to be offensive to the other House of Parliament. He considered it his duty on that occasion to yield to the sense of the House. He thought, on all occasions, that it was most unfortunate when petitions contained any expressions which might be deemed derogating from the honour of either House of Parliament: but, in the case of the petition presented by the hon. Member, the petitioners, as plainly as words could express, imputed perjury to a large body of the Members of the House. He was sure that the hon. Gentleman himself was too candid to deny that such imputation was therein cast upon a large body of hon. Members; and the petition, moreover, prayed that between six and seven millions of our fellow-subjects in Ireland should be disfranchised. It was impossible to object to the reception of that petition on the ground of that prayer; but when petitioners stated, that Members representing an immense number of the British community, had been guilty, in the discharge of their duty, of the heinous crime of perjury, it behoved the character of the House, if it had any feeling for the reputation or honour of the country, not to receive such a petition.
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that it was quite clear the hon. Member for Kent had properly interpreted the sentiments of the petition, and that a clearer imputation of perjury against any body of men had never been made in that House, and he should, therefore, move as an amendment, that the motion for the reception of the petition be negatived.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was quite as sincere as the hon. Gentleman in his desire to reform all that was wrong. The simple question before the House was whether the shilling that was now exacted on the registration of voters should continue to be exacted or not? The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) said, that he believed that the House was unanimous in wishing to get rid of the shilling, and he should like to know, if that were the case, why the noble Lord refused to accede to the present motion. Why not seize on this opportunity of effecting his object? If hon. Members wished to get rid of this inconvenient impost, he warned them to take the present opportunity of doing so, and to support the motion of the hon. and learned Member for Chester.
 Sir R. Inglis  believed the present would be the first instance of a petition, couched in the respectful language of that now upon the table of the House, being rejected. Petitions of a similar import had been frequently presented, and it was not by the construction that any hon. Member might put upon it that the petition was to be judged. It was needless for him to conceal the view which he took of the subject, but he assured the House that he was not aware of what the petition contained, or from whom it emanated, until it had been read. The petitioners were strictly in order. They alleged certain facts, and left it to the House to adopt its own conclusions. The petition stated, that in the year 1829 a certain measure passed that House, accompanied by certain securities, and it stated that these securities had proved utterly inefficacious. Did the hon. Member for Finsbury deny that such securities were given?—or would he deny, in the second place, that such securities had proved utterly inefficacious? Had they, or had they not, done anything to alienate the property of the church? If the hon. Member denied that, then he could understand his course of proceeding. The allegation in the petition was, that they had been instrumental in endeavouring to alienate
 945
 Lord Ebrington  agreed with his hon. Friend who had spoken last, that the allegations of the petition were utterly false and groundless in all their charges, both as applying to the Roman Catholics and the other Members on that side of the House. At the same time he was one who had always been an advocate for extending the greatest possible latitude to the receipt of petitions, and nothing except a strong feeling that the statements and charges in the petition were so wholly groundless and so plain, as to leave no possible doubt as to what their interpretation was, would induce him to vote for the rejection of a petition. He must, however, confess that the present petition appeared to him to go nearer to charge the Catholic Members with perjury than any he had ever yet heard; because it staled in plain language that a certain body of the Members of that House had taken an oath to preserve, to the utmost of their power, the Church Establishment; and yet that, in defiance of that oath, they had voted for measures which had a direct tendency to
 946
 Lord Clements  asked permission of the House to make a few observations on the general principles of this bill, as he had been deprived of the opportunity of doing so during the discussion on the second reading. The subjects to which he wished to speak more particularly on the present occasion were, the patronage which would be created by the till, out-door relief, and the law of settlement. These were questions of a general nature, which he should be incompetent to treat at any other period than the present. He wished to express his sincere thanks to the noble Lord (the Secretary for the Home Department) for introducing the present bill, with the main features of which he most cordially concurred. He thought that nothing could be effectually done to ameliorate the condition of Ireland, unless the state of the poorer classes was taken into most serious consideration. He rejoiced that the bill was in the hands of the noble Lord, and, without wishing to say anything to raise a party discussion, he thought that a great debt of gratitude was due from the people of Ireland to that noble Lord for the introduction of it. It was a most important measure, and he thought that its success depended very much, if not entirely, upon the manner in which the patronage it created was disposed of. He knew that many of his constituents considered that the powers of the Poor-law Commissioners were much too large. In answer to this objection, it had
 1008 1009
 Sir E. Sugden  would not rise to address the House on the present occasion, but that his connexion with Ireland had given him a deep interest in all matters that related to the welfare and prosperity of that country; he hoped, therefore, the House would excuse him if he offered a few observations upon the subject now under its consideration. He entirely agreed, that the time had arrived when some system of Poor-laws was necessary for Ireland, and he believed, that the calculations which had been made and spoken of in the course of the debate were of little or no importance; for if the views of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin were correct, there was a great deal more destitution existing in Ireland than the framers of this measure supposed, and that great extent of destitution rendered this measure still more necessary than if the framers were accurate in their calculations. It had been said, that it was very difficult, in speaking on this subject, to know what was destitution and what was poverty. He thought that what was poverty in Ireland would be destitution in England, and, therefore, in speaking of poverty and destitution, the one was so much mixed up with the other that it was impossible to separate them, or to state what was the amount or number of those in a state of
 1010 1011 "That the Commissioners should be authorised from time to time to visit, inspect, and inquire into the management of every hospital, asylum, infirmary, dispensary, mendicity, or other charitable institution, not wholly supported by voluntary contributions, and not being an institution dedicated exclusively to religious purposes or a school, and to require from all persons in whom any estate, property, or funds, should be vested or held in trust for any such charities, a true account in writing of the estates, funds, rents, &c, and the appropriation thereof, and of all other particulars relating thereto, as the Commissioners should think fit; and that the Commissioners might from time to time, having reference to the statutes, charters, deeds of foundation, or endowment, will of donor, or by-laws, by which any such hospital, asylum, infirmary, dispensary, mendicity, or other charitable institution, should be by law governed, make and issue all such orders as they should think proper for the government of every such hospital, &c, and the officers thereof, as the Commissioners might deem necessary for the prevention of any conflict between the objects and purposes of any such institution and the objects and purposes of this Act." 1012 1013 1014 1015
 Viscount Morpeth  hoped that his noble Friend (Lord Clements), and the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, would not suppose, that it was from any disrespect to them that he abstained from following them into the details of this measure, particularly after the opinion which the House had expressed in a very intelligible manner the other evening, that it would be desirable to go at once into Committee. He did not understand that his noble Friend or the right hon. Gentleman were opposed to this Bill on principle, and he thought that it would be most in accordance with the feelings of the House to go now into Committee, and then use their best endeavours and utmost exertions to make the present such a measure as would conduce to the welfare of Ireland. He had, therefore, only to thank those hon. Members who had" given their opinions on subjects connected with the details of the Bill, and he could assure them that their suggestions should be carefully considered by the Government, in order to make the Bill perfect if possible. He had the more satisfaction in recommending the adoption of this course, as, after all the censures which had been cast on the Bill, no other measure had been proposed which presented any feasible alternative.
 Sir Francis Burdett  wished before the question was put to express his strong feelings of opposition to the measure. He thought it was not maintainable in principle; that many of its clauses were most objectionable, and he was persuaded it never would be carried into effect. It might be said: "Why object to the Bill in this stage, since the clauses may be altered in Committee?" Certainly, from the examples which they had had of other Bills that had gone out of this House in so totally different a shape from that in which they had come into it, they might fairly expect that this Bill would undergo many modifications before it got through the Committee. But he objected to the Bill altogether. It appeared to him that her Majesty's Ministers had not even taken the trouble of applying to the Members of this House who belonged to that part of the empire, and whose advice, opinions, knowledge, and information would undoubtedly have been of the greatest possible importance. It was a Bill totally
 1016 in toto 1017 1018
 Mr. Barron  could not help congratulating the people of Ireland upon the sympathy which had been shown for them by the hon. Baronet. It was certainly quite consistent with all his past conduct. It was quite in consonance with his subscription to the Spottiswoode fund. He could not but congratulate the people of Ireland upon the appearance of a new advocate in their behalf. Still, he owned the hon. Gentleman's advocacy appeared in rather a suspicious light. He believed he knew somewhat more of the people of Ireland than the hon. Baronet; and what he did know of them convinced him that they would receive this bill as the greatest boon and the best practical measure that had ever been propounded for their benefit. The lame, the blind, the decrepid, and the aged would be protected by this bill; and he would ask any man of common sense whether that would not be a great step gained towards ameliorating the condition of the poor of Ireland? He begged to tell the hon. Baronet and all those who objected to this bill, that he had attended public meetings in Ireland, and he had found only one opinion expressed, as to the usefulness of this bill, and as to its probable practical working. In the county and city of Waterford there had been a
 1019
 Sir W. Brabazon  was strongly opposed to the bill. He had received communications and letters not only from his constituents, but from large bodies of the people of Ireland declaring their decided opposition to the measure. He felt himself called upon, therefore, to oppose it. Founded, as it was, upon the workhouse system, he entertained a sincere conviction that it was not calculated to meet the ends proposed. The numerous objections to the bill had been ably stated by the hon. Member for Dublin, on the former day's discussion, and in the arguments then adduced he most fully concurred. He entertained very unfavourable impressions of the bill, and he had formed them after a careful perusal of the clear and lucid report of the poor-law Commissioners, the result of a careful investigation in Ireland, during three years, which they had passed in the execution of the trust reposed in them. It appeared to him strange that all their trouble was to go for nothing—that the valuable mass of evidence collected by them was to be laid aside, and, as he might say, considered as so much waste paper, while the suggestions of another gentleman sent, indeed, on the same mission, but who had only the experience of a few weeks in that country, were adopted. Why was that? Why did Ministers so pertinaciously adhere to this measure? It must be from a decided conviction that this bill of relief would act
 1020 1021
 Mr. C. A. Walker  was of opinion that the noble Lord, in introducing this bill, had acted in accordance with the opinion generally entertained upon this subject by the Irish landlords.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the mode of appointing the Poor-law Commissioners for Ireland. He desired to see them resident in Ireland, and consequently possessed of local knowledge. He thought it altogether impossible that the English Poor-law Commissioners could comprehend the necessities of the rural districts in Ireland.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that the English Poor-law Commissioners were possessed of very considerable experience in the operation of the existing poor law, and were, therefore, properly prepared to superintend its execution in Ireland. At the same time, he was by no means disposed to deny that it was desirable to have individuals resident in Ireland to administer so much of the act as would require local knowledge and management. The right hon. Gentleman would, however, find at the end of the act the power specifically given of sending one of the Commissioners to Ireland, at the same time that the whole operation of the act would be under the superintendence of the board in London, with a view to insure regularity.
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to the idea of English Commissioners being permitted to override Ireland. One of the chief objections which he found to this bill was, that it gave to persons unconnected with Ireland the power to carry its provisions into effect; that it not only took away this power from individuals identified with Ireland, but intrusted it to persons who he would not say were aliens, but who were remote from Ireland. He should be happy to get rid not only of this particular plan, but of the bill altogether.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  thought, that the residence of at least one Commissioner in
 1022
 Mr. Goulburn  suggested that there should be an office in Dublin for the reception of information of every description connected with the operation of the proposed law, whether under the control of resident Commissioners or not. The object of his right hon. Friend near him (Mr. Shaw) was to secure the existence of some constant resident authority in Dublin, capable of giving information upon every subject which might arise.
 Mr. C. Buller  observed, that the English bill was a remedy against dishonest mendicancy, while in Ireland the great object to be attained was the introduction of a system merely to provide relief for the destitute, they not having hitherto been entitled to it. The circumstances! of the two countries were, therefore, different; and being so, he thought it would be most unfit that the persons appointed to administer a poor-law in Ireland should be the same persons who were intrusted with a similar law under perfectly different circumstances in England. He was of opinion, that there should be established for Ireland an entirely independent board.
 Mr. J. Grattan  thought, that a board composed of Irishmen, and resident in. Ireland, would be the most ineligible thing possible. By the bill they were to have one Commissioner to attend in Dublin, and that, in his opinion, would be sufficient, acting as he would in co-operation with the English Commissioners, who he felt convinced would discharge their duty fairly, effectively, and justly.
 Lord Clements  agreed with the hon. Member for Liskeard, that there was a difference between the circumstances of the two countries, at the same time there would be also found many points of similarity. The same law might be good for both countries, although governed by different principles. He thought that the assistant commissioner would be able to attend to the duties required under the bill, and give every necessary information.
 Mr. Lucas  was of opinion, that in order to prevent delay by the transmitting of information and communications to London, there should fee a permanent board in Dublin; but that board should be removed from all Irish prejudices. In-
 1023
 Mr. O'Connell  conceived it to be a great defect in the bill that the working of it should be carried on at Somerset-house, or else that a Commissioner should be appointed to attend in Dublin, who would have to inform himself upon all local circumstances. He apprehended that every part of the bill would be found to be full of these defects, which he wished hon. Members would consider when considering the bill altogether. He would propose an amendment at the present stage, but that it would not correspond with the working out of a bill of the kind—a bill founded upon the abuses of the English system, which created a pauper population of a particular kind, shrinking from work, and throwing themselves on the parish. In Ireland there was no such shrinking; the labouring classes were most anxious to procure wages to live upon. It was known to all England that they walked to the remotest part of it in order to earn wages, and it might therefore be readily supposed that they would earn them at home if they could. The English Poor-law served as a kind of screw upon the English labourer who wished to be idle; the Irishman required no such stimulant, and yet the same principle was applied to both. The hon. and learned Gentleman moved as an amendment to the first clause, that instead of the words "the Poor-law Commissioners for the time being shall be the Commissioners to carry this Act into execution,"these words be inserted—that" the Poor-law Commissioners for Ireland be the Commissioners to carry this act into execution."
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that this clause left to a witness called before the assistant commissioner the option whether he would be examined on oath or not. Now, if two witnesses were examined, one on oath and the other not on oath, he thought that the Committee would know which of the two witnesses would be most credited. The assistant commissioner in the English Poor-law Bill had power to examine a witness on oath or on his declaration, according to his discretion. Why did this bill differ from the English bill, in leaving the option with the witness instead of leaving it with the assistant commissioner?
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the discretion had been left with the assistant commissioner, because the current of legislation for some years back had run in favour of dispensing, as far as possible, with the administration of oaths. Whether the witness gave his evidence on his oath or on his declaration, he would be equally liable, in case his evidence were false, to the penalties of perjury.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the answer of the noble Lord anything but satisfactory. He thought that it would be far better to leave the option with the assistant commissioner than with the witnesses.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought the best way of amending the clause would be to abolish the oath altogether, and allow of no other form of giving evidence than upon a declaration. He moved that the words '' upon oath," be omitted.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, it surely ought not to be attempted to alter the existing laws relative to the obligation of taking oaths, or making a declaration by a sidewind. What he would propose was, not to take away or to extend the obligations, but to leave it just as the law now stood. This was not the fitting occasion to settle such a question.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, they were now, on the 12th clause, discussing a point which ought to have been raised on the second reading. He could not advise the appli-
 1026
 Mr. O'Connell  remarked, that the House had already acted on the principle of abolishing superfluous oaths, in the case of Excise and Custom-house oaths, and of the oaths formerly taken by persons receiving half-pay. He was perfectly prepared to go the length of abolishing oaths in all civil cases heard before the courts, and he thought the security of a declaration amply sufficient in the present instance.
 Viscount Howick  felt himself compelled to resist the amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin (Mr. O'Connell), from the inconvenience to which it would lead. Whatever opinions he might entertain about the desirableness or expediency of abolishing unnecessary oaths, he thought that that object could only be effected by a separate and express Bill. It would be highly inconvenient that the power proposed to be granted to the Commissioners to examine on oath should be withheld.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, that this was a very important clause. It gave the commissioners power to throw into one union any amount of territory, or of population, they might choose. They might include a whole province in one union. He thought that some limit ought to be placed on this power.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the question of the size of the unions had been discussed very much last year, and it had been considered very seriously whether
 1029
 Captain W. D. Dundas  said, that from his experience of the working of the new Poor-law in England, he could state, that large unions had been found very inconvenient. He thought that there ought to be some limit to the unions.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, that no doubt the unions ought not to go beyond a certain extent, but the circumstances of locality must and ought to affect the extent of every union, and it would be impossible to make any general rule upon the subject.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that in the bill of last year it was provided that the unions should be of such an extent as that no person should be distant more than ten miles from the workhouse. According to the present Bill it was impossible to know how many workhouses there would be, or what distance those persons who sought relief would have to travel before they could reach a work house.
 Mr. Goring  said, that in the English Act it was provided that no parish should be included in a union which was distant more than ten miles from the union workhouse, and that provision was found to work well. He should wish to place some specific restrictions on the size of the unions, and in order to do so he would move as an amendment, "That no parish should be included in a union if it were more than eight Irish miles distant from the union workhouse.
 Viscount Howick  said, that in his own county some of the unions were very large; and, indeed, it would be utterly impossible in some instances to limit them without great inconvenience.
 Sir Robert Peel  was of opinion that it would be most unwise to confine the powers of the Commissioners within too narrow limits. If the unions that were at first established were found to work well, nothing would be more easy than to extend them. He considered it an objectionable provision that in every instance the workhouse should be erected in the immediate vicinity of popular towns.
 Mr. O'Connell  was persuaded that though the Government introduced this Bill for the purpose of conferring a benefit on Ireland, they had not estimated the expense of erecting these union workhouses. He thought the expense would be twice or three times as much as what was calculated upon. It was last year said that one hundred workhouses would be sufficient. Did any one now imagine that number would be sufficient? It was easy to begin with a limited number of workhouses in England, because where they were not established parochial relief was continued. But what would be the case in Ireland? The workhouses would not be sufficient to afford adequate relief, whereas the belief would exist that a right to relief was secured from the imposition of taxation. If they were to have Poor-laws in Ireland let them be established simultaneously, their expense estimated, and relief be placed within the reach of every individual.
 Mr. Wakley  said, it was always with regret that he had to speak in the language of complaint, but unfortunately he had too often occasion to address that kind of language to the House. He had strong objections to every thing in the shape of injustice; and the manner in which a large portion of the people were treated by those who, day by day, were allowed to commit a breach of the privileges of that House, was most annoying to his feelings. He alluded to the press. With regard to the press, he had, individually, no cause to complain of its conduct, either before or since he had been a Member of the House; for, on the contrary, it had done him the greatest service, as it was to the press he owed the attainment of the high station he had the honour to hold as a representative of the people. He had been for a long series of years exposed to the abuse of the press, and it was to that abuse he was indebted for his seat in that House. Individually, therefore, he had no cause to complain; and it was on the part of the working millions who came to that House complaining, by petition, of the grievances to which they were subjected, and to seek for redress of those grievances—it was on the part of those who uttered their complaints to that House that he stood forward to complain of the injustice of the
 1006 The Morning Chronicle The Morning Chronicle The Times 1007
 Colonel Perceval  felt it to be his duty to move an amendment to the motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Roscommon, not for the purpose of stifling inquiry into the allegations of the petition presented by that hon. Gentleman, because he had no doubt whatever of the authenticity of the signatures to the election petition; but he was induced to adopt this course for the purpose of preventing great inconvenience and unnecessary expense to certain parties connected with the case in question. It was, therefore, his intention to move that a witness should be called to the bar of the House and examined on oath, that the House itself might decide as to the course which was proper to be taken after hearing the evidence of that witness. He could not but express his regret that his hon. Friend did not give him a few days' notice of this petition and its contents, because in that case he should have made it his business to produce at the bar of the House the three persons who had signed the petition. It was true that his hon. Friend had told him, more than a week ago, that he would present a petition bearing strongly on the case; but he did not intimate its purport, and he believed that his hon. Friend was not then aware of the subjects of which the petition would treat. He now, therefore, on the part of the petitioners, and as the representative of the county of Sligo, complained that the materials, or purport, or subjects of the petition had not been made known to him before, or he would have secured the attendance of the subscribing petitioners at the bar of the House. He thought he had a right to complain, because now at the eleventh hour, this petition was brought forward for the purpose of stifling investigation into the merits of the election petition. It was now the 13th of February, that this petition, and the motion founded on it, were brought under the consideration of the House, while the order of the day for the ballot for the committee on the original election petition was fixed for Thursday next, the 15th of February. The consequence would be, that if this motion, were agreed
 1042
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that Mr. Moffat, being one of the sureties, could not be examined before the Select Committee. By referring it to a Select Committee, they would therefore be depriving the sitting Member of his evidence. He thought it would be more convenient to follow the course recommended by the right hon. Baronet opposite, and examine the witnesses to-morrow. At the same time, he wished, that Gentlemen would endeavour to satisfy themselves by an inspection of the signatures. He did not know himself in which of the petitions the signature was disputed, as three of them appeared to be in the same character and handwriting.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that before he made the motion which was on the paper, he should take the liberty of presenting to the House a number of petitions which had been intrusted to him, and which had reference to the case of the Glasgow cotton-spinners.
 1060 No, no! 1061 1062 l. 1063 1064 1065 1066 Hear, hear! 1067 1068 1069 1070 l. l. 1071 1072 1073
 The Lord Advocate  was bound to acknowledge the perfect courtesy with which the hon. Gentleman had brought forward this question. But while he acknowledged this personal courtesy to its fullest extent, he must regret that, in reference to other persons, not present to defend themselves, the hon. Gentleman had made some observations which he conceived to be totally unfounded. He referred to the opinions alleged to have been delivered by the learned Judges, and he must say, that, with the exception of one particular allusion only, no such opinions had been delivered by them—and before he concluded the observations he had to make, he would direct the attention of the House particularly to an opinion of one of the Judges in a case allied to the present, and which he should submit to the House as expressing sentiments honourable to any Judge in any country. But when the hon. Member complained that an observation had fallen from one of the Judges to the effect that the guilty persons were punished for the sake of example, and not because of what they had done, it might be asked what punishments at all were adjudged in any part of these realms but as an example? In no case was punishment dealt out on a criminal in satisfaction of the vengeance of the prosecuting party, but for the good of society alone, for the repression of crime; on such grounds alone was a judge justified in pronouncing the sentence of the law against any individual. Such a sentiment as this was doubtless uttered by the learned Judge, but in every other respect the imperfect and erroneous view which had been given by the hon. Member of the opinions delivered by the learned Judge, showed that he had been entirely misinformed as to the real facts of the case. He regretted that he had not been present when the hon. Gentleman first brought the question before the House, but he had had no idea, from the feeling which prevailed in Scotland respecting these proceedings, that they were likely to engage the attention of the House during the short interval between the assembling of Parliament and the recess. Had he been at all aware that it would be brought
 1074 1075 particeps criminis, 1076 alibi 1077 1078 1079 1080 "Thomas Riddle, it is impossible not to be sorry, as well as surprised, at seeing a person of your appearance where you are. But you have committed a very great crime, and in order that neither you, nor anybody else, may have any pretence for not understanding its atrocity, I shall tell you the facts, as stated in the indictment to which you have now pleaded guilty. The indictment sets forth that you had struck work. But this is not your crime—it is not even a part of it. The law now entitles you, and every man, to strike work when he pleases. Your labour is your own, and you may sell it as you please. So may every other man by law. Whether there be certain persons who won't let this law be acted upon we shall see immediately. The indictment also states, that you struck in concert with a number of other operative cotton-spinners. But this is no part of your crime either. The law not only allows every man to demand what wages he pleases, and to refuse working if he does not get them, but it allows him to arrange and combine with others, in order that by concerted strikes, they may make their joint demand more effectual. Masters may combine against workmen, and workmen against masters. By law the market of labour, like that of capital, is free. Would that the workmen of this country had always shown themselves worthy of the recent removal of the old restrictions on the power of demanding what wages they chose, and of uniting to enforce this demand. But your crime is this—namely, that you, along with some of your associates, invaded the house in which a person lived who chose to be satisfied with lower wages than you and they were holding out for; that you did this under cloud of night, and when the inmates were in bed; that with sticks, stones, and menaces you broke open the door, and even shook bricks from the partition in which it was fixed: that you threw the inmates into a state of great terror and alarm; and that you compelled the workman you were in quest of 'under terror of personal violence, and in fear of his life, to swear or promise, that he would leave the cotton-mill in which he was then working.' Now, all this is bad but its chief guilt consists in the
 1081 1082 1083
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that, in his judgment, it had been proved that the prisoners were rightly found guilty, and that the punishment was not greater than was necessary. He had looked over the evidence with the utmost attention and that suspicion which such evidence induced; but it did appear to him on the evidence, without feeling any bias from other causes in operation on his mind, that he could not have voted for the motion of which the hon. Member for Finsbury had given notice, but had since, as he understood, withdrawn, for an address to the Crown, praying the commutation of the sentence which had been passed on the fire con-
 1084 l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that before the amendment was put, he would beg leave to state to the House, in the absence, from indisposition, of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, what course the Government intended to pursue on the present important question, and he felt satisfied from all the observations he had heard during the evening, that that course would be consonant with the views of all parties. This was a subject of all others that required the unanimity of hon. Members, that the public might know that the House was about to legislate for the benefit of the whole community, and he thought it would be expedient that hon. Members should merge minor differences, and at once go to the principle of the question. Although he thought the House would generally
 1098 Wakley: 1099
 Mr. Hume  was certain the working-classes only desired justice, and on their behalf he trusted that the inquiry proposed by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be allowed to take place. He thought that if his hon. Friend, the Member for Finsbury, persisted in his motion, it would be said that he attached himself to one particular class, whereas he was sure his hon. Friend had in view the interests of all classes. He thought much blame and many of the evils might be ascribed to the masters, and he therefore was most anxious that the inquiry should be directed also to them. He rejoiced, however, that the Government had come forward to take up the general question. Allusion had been made to the repeal of combination acts; he begged to state, that
 1100
 Mr. Harvey  approved of the amendment moved by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in preference to the original motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury; at the same time he thought that amendment would not lead to any useful result; and he was also of opinion that the amendment proposed by the Government was much too narrow, for if the object of the House was a full, honest, and efficient inquiry into criminal combinations, it was important that all the circumstances which fostered and engendered those combinations should be subjected to full and ample inquiry. The inquiry as proposed by the Government, however, was limited, and if it was not intended as a prelude to future measures to affect the interests of the working classes, it was indispensable that the inquiry should be directed into all the circumstances and all the existing laws which affected the prerogatives and the property of labour. He should be delighted to hear that it was within the scope of the proposed inquiry to consider how existing laws, affecting not merely the wages of labour, but the means of subsistence, operated. He would not even exclude an inquiry into the operation of the corn laws. He presumed such was not the intention, and therefore he said this was not intended to
 1101 l.
 Mr. G. F. Young  was afraid, that if the subjects to be brought before the Committee were of a general nature, it would be attended with the "no result" which the hon. Member for Southwark seemed to anticipate. He feared that the distinction was not always observed, by those who advised the people between meritorious acts of combination and the conspiracies which led to the particular results which lately occurred. He himself
 1102 l.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  responded most cordially to the opinions pronounced by the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, there was no period at which the opinion of Lord Cockburn quoted by the learned Lord Advocate was more apposite than at present. The opinion to which he alluded was, that no greater despotism could be exercised, not only over the country, but over the interests of the individual workmen themselves, than that which had been attempted. He was most anxious that this inquiry should extend to combinations of all sorts. It was impossible to shut our eyes to the fact, that the spirit of combination had existed in Ireland under many forms for several years past, and had manifested itself by preventing individuals from one party in that country acquiring land in another, by fettering the exercise of the elective franchise, and by affixing the symbols of death to the habitations of those who voted in a different manner to that in which their persecutors wished. When such combinations were encouraged it was not wonderful that the same spirit should induce men to perpetrate actual murder. He was, however, gratified at the general reprobation of these practices which had been expressed, and he trusted that if any measure should result from this inquiry it would not only affect tradesmen but include the acts of others, whether they related to the taking of land or the exercise of the franchise.
 Mr. Slaney  felt, that it would be a subject of regret if any impression should go abroad from that debate, that it was intended to restrict the labourer in his power of carrying his labour to the best market. He was convinced, that the proceeding which was intended would not have the effect of restricting any power which the labourer now enjoyed, but that it would only prevent him from exercising a most mischievous tyranny over his fellow men. When he heard statements relating to Scotland and Ireland, showing
 1103
 Mr. Hindley  rose to move that the debate be adjourned. It was a singular feature in this debate, that though the question concerned operatives, not one Gentleman who was in the habit of employing operatives had spoken. Had he risen earlier, he should have stated the result of his experience since the year 1825. He should then merely content himself with expressing the pleasure which he felt at having the subject taken out of the hands of the Government. It was most important that this inquiry should not have the appearance of an attack on the trades' unions. The trades' unions were to a certain extent beneficial, and to a certain extent injurious. He trusted that some salutary regulations would be determined upon, and that the inquiry would give entire satisfaction.
 Mr. Fielden  observed, that from the excitement which prevailed on this subject, nothing was more important than the appointment of an impartial Committee. If such a selection were made as that of the Poor-law Committee, that excitement would be increased, no satisfaction would be given to the country, and the most dangerous consequences might be expected. He should say a word on the sentence which was pronounced on the Glasgow cotton-spinners. It was the opinion of many Members of that House, and it was responded to out of doors, that the Government ought to pursue a course of forbearance respecting these men pending the inquiry by the Committee. If they were banished before that inquiry ended, it might become a ques-
 1104
 Mr. Wakley  replied. He certainly felt some surprise at the state of society which the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had described as existing in Ireland. He had been given to understand that, under the present Government, all was peace, prosperity, and tranquillity in that country; but it now appeared, that every day brought its concomitant outrage. Whether these practices proceeded from the tradesmen or others it was impossible for him to explain; but as a great deal of blood had been spilled in Ireland, as assassinations and murders were so numerous, he wished the inquiry to be as extensive and comprehensive as it could be made. There were many combinations in Ireland and England. In Ireland there had been the Orange combination, and more blood had been spilled in a single tithe affray in Ireland than could be laid to the charge of all the trades' combinations. If the rich had been instrumental in producing that sacrifice, let it be ascertained by the minutest investigation. Let there be an examination into all the combinations and monopolies established by charters and Acts of Parliament for the benefit of the rich, and opposed to the welfare of the poor, whose food was raised in price by partial and unjust legislation. What opportunity had the labouring man to obtain the best market for his labour but by combination? Were it not for the unions in London those who were engaged in them would be obliged to sell the produce of their skill at thirty or forty per cent. less than they now did. Let them give the poor the same means of protecting themselves that the rich enjoyed, and he would be satisfied. With respect to the immediate question before the House he would gladly avail himself of the proposition of his right hon. Friend, and withdraw his motion. When he opened the case of these unfortunate individuals he had staled, that there were circumstances that showed
 1105
 Mr. Fitzstephen French , in bringing forward the motion of which he had last night given notice, would only detain the House by laying before them the precedents which, on searching the journals he had found, and which appeared to him to prove, that both before and since the passing of the Grenville Act, it had been the uniform practice of the House to reject all petitions which were not duly subscribed by the petitioners. It might be considered by some Members unnecessary for him to refer further back than the 10th of George 3d; but there were reasons connected with the ulterior steps which it might be necessary to take in this case, which made him anxious the House should be in possession of all the cases which appeared to him similar, and on which the House had already decided. Three petitions had been presented to the House, complaining of an undue election for the borough of Sligo; these petitions severally purported to be signed by John Wood, James Winterscale, and Robert George Tyler. The signature of Tyler to two of these petitions appeared to be written by the same hand; but his name to the third petition, which was the only one on which recognizances had been entered, appeared to be written in a different hand. The sitting Member was prepared with evidence to prove, first, that Tyler asserted he had only signed two petitions; and secondly, to prove by the evidence of persons well acquainted with his handwriting that the signature to the petition now before the House, and purporting to be his, had not been written by him. The House of Commons by its resolution of 1689, had declared that all petitions presented to it, ought to be signed by the petitioners with their hands or marks, and he would show by the precedents he held in his hand that where this was not the case, the House steadily adhered to its resolution and invariably rejected the petitions; that where any doubt existed as to the authenticity of the signature before the Grenville Act, the matter was referred to the Committee of privileges and elections, to inquire into and report thereon, or else evidence was heard at the bar; and that since the
 1034 1035 1036 1037 1038 1039 1040 1041
 Mr. French  had been informed there was a witness ready to depose that Tyler had told him that he had not signed the petition. If one of the signatures should prove to be spurious, the whole petition would fall to the ground.
 Mr. Goulburn  agreed with an hon. Member opposite, that it was perfectly competent to the Committee under the Grenville Act, to inquire whether a petition had been properly signed or not, and if not signed by the proper parties, they had the remedy in their own hands, and might saddle the offending party with the costs of a frivolous and vexatious petition. He did not wish to interfere and stop a due inquiry into the transaction, but at the same time he was averse from permitting preliminary statements to be
 1044
 Mr. Warburton  was understood to say that the course proposed by the hon. and gallant Member for Sligo was not perhaps the most convenient, and that the party who had denied the authenticity of the signatures was the party who should begin, and who should be prepared with evidence to prove his allegations. If it could be proved that only one of the signatures was genuine, he apprehended that the petition would be valid.
 The Speaker  reminded the hon. Member that the present could not be regarded as a convenient time upon which to enter into the merits of the question, especially as a day had been appointed, by the hon. Member by whom the petition was presented for taking it into consideration.
 Mr. Milnes  felt very much the inconvenience of troubling the House at that moment; but, at the same time, he did not like that a petition of that kind should go abroad upon the journals of the House without some means being afforded to the public of coming to a right understanding of its character and nature. As the best apology he could offer for trespassing upon the patience of the House at all, he would endeavour to confine his remarks to within the narrowest possible limits. Sir Culling Smith declared that his election failed because he did not give head-money; but he could tell the House why and how it was that Sir Culling Smith failed. Sir Culling Smith first went down to Pontefract under Conservative banners and professing Conservative principles, and he was then elected. In 1835 he attempted the same thing under Radical banners and professing Radical principles, and, therefore, as was very natural, was not elected. Whatever course might be taken, whether head-money were given or not, it was impossible that any two persons, professing Radical principles could ever become the representatives of the borough of Pontefract. He would reserve himself, however, until the day appointed by the hon. Member for Sheffield, when
 1033
 Mr. Milnes  said, that if he were anxious to bring forward reasons why this petition should not be presented at all—if he were anxious to prevent such a petition from appearing upon the journals of the House, he believed it would be no difficult task; but he proposed acquiescing in the prayer of the petition, at the same time asking permission of the House to offer a very few remarks upon its character and nature. He, for one, could have no objection to the fullest inquiry upon the subject, remaining secure and satisfied upon the simple fact that he individually had not given any head-money. He begged the House to remark, that this petition came forward under two aspects; in one point of view it was to be regarded as bringing large and wholesale allegations against the constituency which he had the honour to represent, and in the other, it was to be
 1032
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, all parties were agreed that the subject matter of the complaint was such that the House was bound to inquire into it, in order to satisfy their own minds. The only question between the hon. and gallant Officer opposite and his hon. Friend behind him, was, as to the mode in which the inquiry should be conducted—whether by an examination at the bar of the House, or by a Select Committee. It remained, then, for the House to say whether it was disposed in matters of this kind to bring more questions under the immediate cognizance of the House, than it had been customary for Parliament to do. It was a better mode, he conceived, to have this subject examined before a Committee, than to call witnesses to the bar of the House. That had been the usual practice. A Committee of five or seven Members would be able to collect the evidence on all the allegations, in a satisfactory manner, and then to report thereon to the House.
 Mr. A. Mackinnon : I consider this question, Sir, to be one of very great importance. The sentiments of the country are not yet pronounced on the subject, and there can be no doubt, that the opinions given in this House will go abroad, and may have considerable influence on the community, enabling the public mind to come to a decision on a question which has, in fact, been dormant, with the exception of occasional remarks in the public papers—remarks, however, which have not drawn from the public much attention. In the year 1833, a discussion took place on the Algerine occupation by the French troops, in the House of Lords, and some papers were moved for and granted by that House. The debate, however, did not enter into the merits of the case. In the Chambers of Peers and Deputies in France, the question has been often agitated, and the discussions which have arisen have elicited various opinions. It seems to be a subject on which the public mind in Great Britain requires to be informed, and it appears that no decided sentiment has yet been formed by the public. In proportion, therefore, to the weight and attention given by the country to the deliberations of this House, in the same proportion will be the importance of the observations made here this evening to the country. I am, therefore, desirous to avoid all declamation, and in as brief a manner as the subject will admit me, to lay my sentiments on this very important point before the House and the country. It is absolutely necessary before entering into the question, to advert briefly to the state of the town and government of Algiers previously to the year 1830, when it fell under the dominion of France. 1050 1051 1052 1053 1054 1055 1056 1057
 Mr. MacKinnon  begged to know if, as was stated by the noble Lord, Turkey had been in occupation of Algiers, how it was that the two expeditions which had been sent out from England to demand reparation for the injuries that had been done to British commerce, did not go to Turkey, but direct to Algiers?
 Mr. Ward 
 1031 l.
 The Attorney-General  was disposed to agree with the right hon. Gentleman, that election petitions should not be impeded by useless delay, and that the petitioner ought to be able to make out his case before the ballot took place, as otherwise the order to take the petition into consideration might have to be discharged.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that in the case of the Carrickfergus petition, which had been referred to, the petition which was from the sitting Member, stated that a number of signatures to the petition which had been sent in against his return were forgeries, and prayed the House to inquire into the allegations, and that the petition against his return might be forthwith discharged. The House granted the first prayer, but refused the second. In the present instance, the House was called on to appoint a Select Committee
 1043
 Sir R. Peel  said, that in the present instance, the House should not devolve its powers of inquiry upon a Select Committee. The facts of the case were these:— a petition stood over for consideration on Thursday next, the day after to-morrow. A petition was presented on the Tuesday, two days before the ballot should take place, the hon. Gentleman who presented it having ten days ago intimated to the sitting Member that a petition would be presented, but not having stated what that petition was. Two days before the Committee is to be nominated, the hon. Member presents this petition, alleging that he is prepared to prove that one of the signatures to the original petition complaining of an undue return is not authentic, and that he has reason to believe that the two other signatures are also not authentic, but that one signature at least is not so he is prepared to prove. The inquiry must, therefore, be brought to a close to-morrow, because the Committee will be ballotted for on Thursday. Let the House beware of establishing as a precedent the instituting of. a preliminary inquiry, which may possibly have the effect of rendering it impossible for the Election Committee to proceed with their
 1045
 Sir Samuel Whalley  rose to move for an address to be presented to her Majesty for a copy of the correspondence between England and France relative to the occupation of Algiers by the latter power. He hoped the House would support him in his endeavour to obtain the information which appeared to him to be required. He would ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for
 1046 1047 1048
 Lord Mahon  felt the delicacy of the subject, and did not intend to enter upon the discussion of it; but, as the noble Lord had stated that satisfactory assurances had been received from France disclaiming all intention of aggrandisement, on the one side, as regarded Morocco, and, on the other, Tunis, he thought it would be desirable that the noble Lord should give the dates of these assurances, and state whether they were in such a form that they might be added to the other papers moved for.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that those assurances had taken place within the last few months; that they had been chiefly verbal communications, but that such papers as had been received he should prefer not laying before the House.
 Viscount Palmerston  repeated, that there was no doubt that the Porte held rights over Algiers. France and England, whenever they had to complain against a particular power, used to go, without disputing the right of Turkey, to that particular power itself. Other powers used to hold the Sultan responsible for the acts of the Barbary States in Africa, and apply to him for redress when an injury had been done.
 Viscount Palmerston  had no objection to a return being ordered of the papers which formed the subject of this motion, premising that the correspondence sought was that which had passed between the Governments of France and England in 1830 with respect to the occupation of Algiers—a correspondence which had been laid before the other House of Parliament in 1831 or 1832. As it had not, however, as yet been laid before this House, it was perfectly proper that this should now be done. It could not be expected that he would at that moment enter very fully into many of those topics which had been suggested both by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down and by his hon. Friend, who had introduced the motion. It was not his business to inquire into the effect which the occupation of Algiers would produce upon the interests of this country, in many of those respects which had been suggested by both those hon. Gentlemen, nor into the degree in which it was likely to affect the interests of France herself, in the cases which they had supposed. He must, however, say, that there existed a difference of opinion between him and the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, upon one point, which was with regard to the
 1058 1059
 Mr. Freshfield  contended, that the preliminary objection which had been taken to the petition could not be sustained, and he would show that the practice of the House had been contrary to that suggested by the hon. Member for Roscommon. In one instance a petition had been signed by six persons, and it was admitted by a witness, whom the sitting Member intended to call, that the petition was not  bona fide, 1107
 Mr. F. French  had never stated, that a Committee could not take cognizance of the signatures to a petition. He was quite aware of the Nottingham case and of the other cases to which the hon. Member had referred; but he felt satisfied that the proper course to adopt was to bring the subject under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that it appeared to him that the present was not only an investigation which a Select Committee might entertain, but he thought the House was absolutely bound to send the subject to such a tribunal. Nothing could be gained by an inquisition before the House. The Committee was to be ballotted for to-morrow, and it must at once take cognizance of the allegation made against the genuineness of the signatures. If it was not the petition of the parties, then the Committee would give the sitting Member the costs of his defence.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, the petition had better be referred to a Select Committee, because the whole House would be as clumsy a jury as it was possible to invent. He himself had never desired to be a judge. If the matter were referred to a Select Committee the real merits of the case would be thoroughly investigated.
 The Speaker  thought, it would be admitted by all parties that if an individual's name were forged in any petition presented to the House that was a breach of the privileges of the House; and if a petition were presented to the House containing such an allegation, it stated that which the House would recognise as a breach of privilege. In the present case, a petition had been brought under the notice of the House, which contained an allegation that the signatures attached to
 1108
 Mr. F. French  reminded the House that the whole of the signatures were alleged to be forgeries, and if that could be proved, there would be an end of the case. He believed that since the passing of the Grenville Act no case analogous to the present one had occurred. The cases of Athlone and Carrickfergus were not so. He would leave the House to deal with his proposition as it thought proper.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  wished to explain that neither directly nor indirectly had he had any communication with the hon. Member for Sligo, or with any other hon. Member as to the course which he pursued, for he was not aware that the question would come on, and did not, therefore, come down to the House till near six o'clock. He would not have taken the objection, but that he felt a judicial question of this kind ought not to be left to the consideration of the House, and that he was bound to state the point as it occurred to him at the time.
 Colonel Perceval  felt it his duty to state for the information of his hon. Friend, the Member for Roscommon, and for the information of the House, that he
 1109
 Mr. Jephson  opposed the second reading. The bill was very unintelligible; it had not been called for, and he believed, also, that it was not desired by the people of Cork. It was likewise opposed to the opinion of the assistant barrister of the eastern division.
 Mr. Shaw  said, he should be glad to know what the Government intended to do with this and several other bills relating to Ireland which stood upon the orders for that evening, forming a kind of wholesale legislation. With regard to this particular measure, he could bear his testimony to the assertion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Mallow—viz., that everybody in Cork was opposed to it.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the objection of hon. Members to the bill appeared
 1112
 Mr. Goulburn  was of opinion, that this, and all measures relating to the administration of justice should be taken up by the Ministers, whose duty it was to consider how far the claims of the different places were well founded. He thought the noble Lord should take such measures
 1113
 Mr. Woulfe  perfectly concurred with the right hon. Gentleman that it was the duty of Government to attend to measures concerning the administration of justice; but, in this instance, the question did not exactly concern the general administration of justice, being a question rather of population, the situation of mountains, rivers, and roads, and the convenience of particular parties. He had already told the hon. Member for Kinsale, that the bill being one of local interest, he ought to consult those possessing a local knowledge of the subject. He would now add, that the Government would most anxiously pursue whatever course those individuals should determine on as most judicious.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that in order to take from the proceeding all appearance of a job, it would be better to postpone the bill until the county could be consulted on the subject. He certainly thought such a measure ought not to be brought forward without the opinion of the county being collected, as the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland himself suggested.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to the proposed measure on principle, and he concurred fully in the prayer of that petition which he had already presented to Parliament
 1114
 Mr. O'Connell  would certainly oppose the bill, although he had a personal interest the other way. The college refused to accede to the proposed plan, and he thought that Parliament had no right to dispose of their property when that corporation was an opposing party He thought it would be better if his hon. Friend were allowed to withdraw his motion.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he, in the course of the last year, had stated, that he would not be a party to any large measure on this subject without the assent of the college. That assent had been authoritatively refused, and he therefore could not go along with the hon. Mover in this bill.
 Mr. Lefroy  affirmed, that the proposed measure would be an infringement of the rights of private property, and therefore could not be committed without the consent of the parties interested.
 Mr. Mahony  still thought the measure just and necessary, and entertained no doubt that before long the opinion of the public would lead Parliament to its ready adoption.
 Mr. V. Smith  hoped the right hon. and learned Gentleman would not press his amendment, for it appeared to him that most of the objections which he had urged against the measure were capable of being removed in the Committee. The first objection made to the Bill by the right hon. and learned Gentleman was founded on the use of the word "parent" throughout the Bill. Surely that defect, if it was one, could be cured in the Committee. Had the right hon. and learned Gentleman treated this Bill as a mere matter of law, he should have deferred to the well-deserved reputation of the right hon. Gentleman as a first-rate lawyer; but the right hon. and learned Gentleman had invited the House to discuss it on the principles of the human mind, with which hey were nearly all equally well acquainted, and had brought to the discussion of it, not precedents of law, but the adventitious aid of fable. The only legal argument which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had advanced was, that the affidavits, which would be necessary to enable a mother to introduce a claim to the intervention of the court, would be so long, so complicated, and so various, that he was loth to invite either her or her husband into the Court of Chancery to make them. Now, it appeared to him that when a parent stated, that access to her children was not allowed her by the husband from whom she was separated, the judge might settle her claim to access to them without entering into an inquiry whether her separation from her husband was proper or not. The right hon. and learned Gentleman observed that it was not desirable to increase the facility of separation between husband and wife, and he was ready to admit that many small inconveniences which occurred in married life were smoothed over by a knowledge of the great difficulty of obtaining a separation. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had also said that one of the finest principles of human nature was the attachment of a mother to her child. He admitted that it was so, and implored the House not to take advantage of it to compel a woman to reside with a husband who treated her with neglect and cruelty. That would be a compulsion inflicted on the weak for the benefit of the party who was strong enough already. All the difficulties of separation were at present on the side of the woman, and therefore in all the bickerings of mar-
 1121 1122
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that after the candid appeal which had just been made to him, he did not hesitate to give way at once. He would withdraw his amendment and let the Bill go into Committee. He hoped that his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Reading, would put the Bill into the best shape it would admit of in the Committee; but he must tell him distinctly at once, that he was so adverse to the principle on which it was founded, that he should divide the House against it on the third reading, even if he stood alone in the division.
 Mr. Tancred  had a strong feeling against this measure. In his opinion the greatest evil which could befal a wife was a separation from her husband, and, so far from doing anything to facilitate such separation, it appeared to him that the House ought to support every enactment of the law as it now stood which placed an obstacle in the way of such separation. In nineteen out of twenty cases he Relieved the separated wife was allowed to have intercourse with her children; but then let it be observed this was by allowance of the husband, and that circumstance would materially tend to impart a tone of mildness towards the father to her intercourse. But under the proposed Bill no such circumstance would intervene, and embittered as the wife's feelings would be
 1123
 Mr. Wakley  believed the Bill as it stood had the approbation of the whole of the British public, and he hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not consent to any compromise or alteration that would make any material difference in the measure.
 Mr. Goulburn  hoped that hon. Gentlemen would consult the feelings of the House, and not go into further discussion of the subject.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  expressed his sense of the kind manner of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Ripon, in the opposition which he had felt it his duty to offer to this Bill, and he should be very happy to entertain the suggestions of his right hon. Friend, but he would enter into no compromise or understanding as regarded the substance of the Bill. In using the word "parents" he had not meant to make any alteration of the law on the subject. As for the Bill itself, he looked upon it as some little recognition of the principle of extending justice to those who certainly had enjoyed but little of justice hitherto, and therefore he should certainly be most reluctant to consent to any alteration in its provisions.
 Mr. Herbert  was understood to say, that he fully concurred in the case made out by the hon. Member for Sheffield, as to the necessity for some measure to suppress bribery at elections. The law upon the subject at present was not sufficiently stringent; but he would not resort to the ballot, because he conceived that other means more fitting and effective could be adopted. With regard to intimidation, he still less saw how the ballot would effectually remove it. The hon. Member for London had, he thought, laid too much stress upon after-dinner speeches, and expatiated too widely upon his remedy, without showing exactly how it would operate in this respect. He was rather inclined to trace intimidation to unions and combinations, and Irish associations, to defeat the ingenuity of which, in order to secure secret voting, they could not hope by speculative acts of Parliament. Recollect that a voter should not only be obliged to conceal his vote, but the sentiments he entertained; and if that were difficult, as it would be in ordinary cases, how much more difficult would it be as regarded unions and clubs, whose tyranny was much more to be feared than that of landlords, because they made life horrible by social persecution? How, also, would the ballot guard against priestly influence in Ireland? Did they expect that law would overcome superstition? or that it would prove a remedy against the confessional as a mode of communicating secrets? Was it not in evidence, taken before the Car-low Committee, that Father Maher made a woman confess the secrets of her husband? They had it also in evidence before that Committee, that Father Maher told the electors, previous to the election, that if they did not vote in a particular way, he would visit them in the mitigated penalty of massacre in this life, and eternal damnation in the world to come. He need not say that the ballot, or indeed any legislative measure, would not prove a remedy
 1167 1168
 Mr. James : After the eloquent and powerful speeches of the hon. Mover and hon. Seconder of the motion, and after the able manner in which the question had been argued by the liberal part of the press of this country, it was a matter of difficulty to make any new observations on the subject; and he, therefore, should not have trespassed on the attention of the House on the present occasion if he had not felt a very deep interest in the subject. The ballot, he was convinced, was essential to the protection of the voter in the exercise of his elective right, and which, if the people of this country possessed at all, they should be allowed to exercise according to the dictates of their own consciences, and not in conformity with the commands of other men. He some years ago presented a petition from a place in the north of England in favour of the ballot, and when he declared himself favourable to the prayer of the petition, his observations were received with shouts of laughter. At that period, the supporters of the ballot in that House were extremely few in number, and one of those persons was the late Mr. Ricardo, the distinguished political economist, who told him on his resuming his seat, not to be discouraged, for he was convinced that if he lived even not many years he would see the ballot become the law of the land. The number of the advocates of the ballot, both within and out of the House had greatly increased, and,
 1169 "Name, name." "No, no!" 1170
 Mr. C. Butter  said, amidst cries of "divide, divide," the right hon. Baronet had come forward in a chivalrous manner to defend the noble Lord from the attacks made upon him in another quarter. Now, although he gave credit to the right hon. Baronet for the magnanimity of this conduct towards a political opponent, he could not help thinking that he was taking the most effectual method of damaging such an adversary and increasing his unpopularity by proclaiming the identity of their opinions. When the right hon. Baronet said, he had not introduced any novelty into this discussion, he did himself great injustice; for he certainly had introduced into it great novelty of discussion. He would not refer to ancient history as copiously as the right, hon. Baronet had done; but he would just remind him that Cicero said, "that the ballot opened the front of man." The right hon. Baronet, referring to the elections in France, said that there was a tampering with the ballot-box; that after the votes had been deposited in the box they were not safe, but were exposed to be tampered with by the returning officer, who, consequently, frequently made a false return. Now, he defied the right hon. Baronet to find an instance of this in the whole history of France, from the time of the concession of the Charter by Louis 18th. Many elections had been illegal; but there was not an instance of one which had been tampered with in the manner described by the right hon. Baronet. The illegality consisted in the returning officer depriving the elector of his right of writing down his vote secretly, and compelling him to write it down in public. As to the opinion of the people of France or of the people of America, with respect to the ballot, he did not pretend to be intimately acquainted with it. Nor would he refer, as he might, to the statement of travellers on that subject, but he would advert to much higher evidence. He would advert to the public testimony afforded by the conduct of those and other nations, as showing what their experience had taught them to think of the efficiency of the system of voting by ballot.
 1215 1216 1217 l. 1218 Cries of "Oh.!" and "Divide" l. 1219
 Lord Worsley  addressed the House, but, in consequence of the noise, he could not be heard. He was understood to say, that he intended to vote in favour of the ballot, although he admitted that secret voting would not put an end to bribery.
 Mr. Elliot  came there determined to vote for the ballot, as he thought that the voters throughout the country required protection. His object was to protect the voter. If he understood correctly the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), his intention was to protect the voter, and that he meant to propose a measure which would produce that effect. If the noble Lord gave now an intimation that it was his intention to propose any such measure, he had such perfect confidence in the noble Lord that upon that promise he should rely, and not vote that night for the ballot; but if no such intimation were given, then, as a matter of justice to the country, he was bound to give his vote in favour of the motion of the hon. Member for London.
 Mr. W. O. Stanley  attempted to address the House, but shouts and cries were continued. He had hoped, he said, that he was in the society of gentlemen. Last year he had given his vote in opposition to the ballot, he had since changed his opinion with respect to it, and he could assure the House that for no other reason than this was he desirous of addressing them. He confessed he had heard with great sorrow the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, declare himself opposed to this question. That noble Lord entertained an erroneous opinion with respect to the prevalence of intimidation. He could assure the noble Lord that if he had been in distant parts of the country he would find that coercion prevailed to a very alarming extent. He would not attempt to go into the arguments on this question, as they had been much more ably stated than he could possibly state them; but he would relate one instance of
 1197
 Mr. G. H. Cavendish  said, that it was impossible to deny that many Gentlemen who were formerly opposed to the ballot, had become favourable to it in consequence of the extent to which bribery and intimidation had been carried at the last election. The arguments in favour of the plan had, however, failed in convincing him of the propriety of adopting it; but he confessed that it was with great reluctance that he had brought himself to vote against a measure that was the only one that had been brought forward as a measure of protection against the evils he had just alluded to; he, however, felt bound to vote against it, as he was satisfied that the adoption of the ballot would produce much greater evils than were at present experienced. He doubted whether the system could be adopted, without a great extension of the suffrage, and this could not be conceded without a correspondent increase of political knowledge in the people. Again, under the ballot a great many unqualified persons would get placed in the register of voters, as that would not be watched and scrutinised as it was at present; and also many would appear and exercise the right of voting who had no claim to it, by representing themselves as persons who really possessed the elective franchise, and no remedy was provided to prevent this under a system of vote by ballot. Again, he did not think that it was expedient or desirable that so great a change should be carried into effect so soon after the passing of the Reform Bill. He also contended that the ballot would not be an effectual protection against bribery; above all, in small constituencies. As far as the machinery of the ballot was concerned, he did not think that there could be any very great difficulty, but the landlord would still have the power of controlling his tenants, and would easily defeat the object of the ballot —namely, affording a security for secret voting. The influence of property would continue to exist, and would continue to be exercised. Lord Brougham, in 1830, used some powerful arguments against the ballot, which had made a great impression on his; mind, and he would quote an extract
 1171 "All facts showed very clearly how groundless was the expectation, that election by ballot would accomplish the purpose in view. But here he might be permitted to ask, with much deference to his hon. and learned Friend, and those who agreed with him on the subject, whether, though it must fail in this respect, it might not, at the same time, fully accomplish one of the blackest and foulest purposes of any that could debase and destroy the character of man? Whether it would not make a hypocrite of a man throughout the whole period of his existence? Whether it would not, as was forcibly described by an eminent writer, make him exist as a person whose 'Whole life was one continued lie?' Such a person must be perpetually on the watch against his warmest friends and closest connexions; always tremblingly afraid to betray a secret, the discovery of which would be equally fatal to his interests and character. This was nothing more nor less than to lead a life of deception and fraud to the last moment of human existence. The character of an individual thus circumstanced was true only in its hypocrisy. The man who could for months conceal the manner in which he had voted—who could hold his tongue on that subject which was the universal topic of conversation —who could keep his secret from his friend and his wife, who would never mention it even at the alehouse, would be false to his country and his friend, and could neither be true nor faithful in any of the relations of life; nor would men believe him true, unless human thought were subverted. The result would be, either that the ballot would be altogether ineffectual or it would be but little effectual; for it could never be very effectual, and that little efficacy would be purchased by the fearful sacrifices which he had endeavoured to depict." 1172
 Lord John Russell  said: I think that my hon. Friend, the Member for Lincoln, in addressing the appeal which he has made in such courtly terms to her Majesty's Government on this occasion, has somewhat followed the course which has been pursued by others, namely, that of assuming that the measure now proposed for the consideration of the House is a fair and proper remedy for the evils which it is intended to cure. The hon. Member for London admitted that there were two propositions which it was incumbent on him, to prove; the one was, that considerable intimidation and corruption existed at elections; and the other was, that the ballot and secret voting was a remedy for such evils. With respect to the former part of his propositions, I am not disposed much to dispute what he said, though I think that even there he resorted to very great exaggeration. I should have collected from the hon. Gentleman's speech, that the whole mass of the people of England—that by far the great majority—that all but a very inconsiderable number were brought up to the polling booths to vote against their consciences. Now, I must say, that in my opinion, if that were really the case, living as the voters do, in the midst of the nation —if those individuals who were intrusted with the elective franchise, and who constitute a large proportion of those who hold property in the country—if they were in this degraded state, ready in masses to be brought up against their will, to vote for whomsoever it might please their landlords or their masters that they should vote—if that were their state of degradation, I
 1183 1184 1185 1186 1187 1188 1189 1190 No, no! hear, hear! 1191 1192 1193
 Mr. E. Lytton Bulwer : He was not one of those who thought that the Reform Bill was not a great and most beneficial change. If it did nothing else it gave peace to the country—if it did nothing else it quelled discontent and perhaps prevented revolution. But it did more than this. All the power that it took from certain families, whose interest was distinct from that of the community, it gave to the middle classes, to the shopkeepers, the traders, to men who had the most vital interest in the economy, the commerce, the good order, and the general tranquillity of the country. He was not, therefore, ungrateful for the Reform Act; he did not desire to have a new Reform Bill: he was not anxious to agitate and unsettle the country with all the details of some new measure—to create a new constituency and effect a new distribution of political power. He was inclined theoretically to a more extended suffrage than at present prevailed. He thought in general that the wider the suffrage the broader the foundations of our institutions; but he had many objections to the popular scheme of household suffrage, on which he would not then enter. He was willing to take his stand upon the present Reform Act, freed from all the limitations and restrictions which at present disfranchised many of those who were intended by that Reform Bill to vote in elections. The Ballot was not, therefore, an encroachment of the popular power; it was merely intended to protect the power the people had already acquired. The object of the Reform Act was to give free and independent votes to the middle and a large portion of the industrious classes; the object of the Ballot was to insure that freedom, and protect that independence. He wished to impress on the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, this point—the exercise of a rote was not merely a poli-
 1176 1177 1178 1179 viva voce." 1180 1181 1182
 Mr. E. R. Rice  spoke amid loud cries of "question!" He was understood to say, that it was his intention to trespass but a few moments upon their attention. He wished to say that he supported this motion independent of any other question, and he thought it was quite distinct from any other. He thought it so distinct that if he were called upon to support the ballot, as the hon. Member for Finsbury had called upon the House to do, in connection with the extension of the franchise, then he most certainly would vote for the ballot, and against the extension of the suffrage, especially as the latter would, in his opinion, be virtually repealing the Reform Act.
 Mr. Grote  said, it would ill become him to trespass at any length upon the patience of the House after the indulgence with which it had been kind enough to listen to him in the early part of the evening; but as his motion had been met by the decided opposition both of the noble Lord (Lord J Russell) and of the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) who sat opposite, he hoped he might be permitted to make two or three remarks upon what had fallen from them only. With all the ability which they had employed upon the occasion they had not done what it was incumbent upon them to do—they had not replied to his objections, nor to the complaints and objections of the voters of England, who were the principal parties interested in the discussion. They had neither of them denied the existence and reality of intimidation; they had not pretended to provide any other remedy for intimidation than that which he (Mr. Grote) proposed, unless, indeed, he were to be called upon to adopt as a remedy that sort of impotent lecture to the landlords which the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, had not been ashamed to use again that evening, although he had used it at his election for Devonshire in 1832, and although subsequent experience must have convinced him how utterly useless, how wholly null, it was. He repeated, that to the complaints and objections of the voters of England no solid answer had been returned either by the noble Lord or by the right hon. Baronet. Instead of returning a solid answer, what had been done? Why,
 1220 1221
 Mr. Grote : I rise, Mr. Speaker, pursuant to my notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill, enacting that votes at elections for Members of Parliament shall be taken by way of Ballot. I trust, Sir, that I shall stand acquitted of any undue pertinacity or presumption on my own part in now renewing this motion, which has already been more than once
 1132 1133 1134 bona fide 1135 1136 bonâ fide 1137 Nulla innocentiœ cura, sed vices impunitatis. "I will venture to appeal to the experience of every elector in the county, whether there has not been infinitely more liberality and fairness on the part of the Conservatives than on that of those who arrogate to themselves
 1138 "My belief is founded not merely on what I have heard from others, but my own observations. My belief is, that a system has been extensively pursued to deter the electors, by fear of injury to themselves and their families, from doing that which we heard read this morning, to elect freely and indifferently the persons whom they may think fit to represent them in Parliament. Now, Gentlemen, this is not a solitary case, it is the regular Tory practice; and you will hear, when you see the proceedings of the different elections, that the same thing has been practised whenever a Tory candidate has opposed men of liberal and reforming principles." The Leeds Intelligencer, "The Duke of Norfolk's agents put on the screw with unusual severity! Lord Fitzwilliam's did the same; Lord Thanet's agents made the election a matter of life and death; the Duke of Devonshire's were not a whit behind; and Lord Burlington's insisted that promises given to Mr. Wortley should be violated under penalties which the poor tenants understood too well." 1139 "My opponents came against me with all the power of the Tory landlords, and all the power of the parsons; and, gentlemen, they beat me. But in the West Riding it was different. Here you come against them with the irresistible power of popular intelligence—intelligence resulting from the wealth which you have industriously accumulated. And what has been the end of this intelligence? Why, that you have returned, for the West Biding, two Liberal Members to serve in the House of Commons. On the contrary, North Northamptonshire has sent two Tories, not to represent the constituency of that county, for they will, most certainly, misrepresent the great majority of its inhabitants. I know full well, for I witnessed it on my own canvass, what was the real feeling of that county. I saw that the number of my colours was, at least, one hundred to one to the colours of my opponent; but, notwithstanding that strong manifestation of the opinion of the people in my favour, the influence of the Tory landlords, as I have said before, consigned me to defeat, and left me in possession of the borough which I have now the honour to represent," 1140 1141 1142 Dicere vix possis, quam multi talia plorent! Tentanda via est; l. l, 1143 l. 1144 1145 1146 1147 1148 "Te semper anteit sæva necessitas, Clavos trabales et cuneos manu Gestans ahenâ." 1149 1150 "No, no!" Renewed cries of "No, no!" and "Name, Name!" sui juris; 1151 1152 1153 1154 1155
 The Speaker  begged to tell hon. Members that it was neither creditable to themselves nor to the House that they should incur the imputation of a desire to interrupt fair discussion in that House.
 Mr. Slaney  said, that as the town which he had the honour to represent bad sent up to that House a petition, most respectably signed, in favour of the ballot, it was with pain and regret that he felt compelled by a sense of duty to vote contrary to the feelings of so many of those whom he so highly respected. He felt bound to vote against the proposition of the hon. Member for London. He acknowledged that the evil was great, but he thought that the remedy proposed was not the proper one. He acknowledged, that intimidation had taken place, and he regretted it; but be believed that it had taken place only
 1198 1199
 Mr. Hall  was not at all surprised at the impatience felt by the House, neither was he astonished at the unwillingness with which some hon. Members listened to the arguments which were adduced in support of the present motion. The question itself had been so often discussed, that the arguments, both for and against it, must be to a great extent exhausted; and as he had on former occasions been permitted to state his own opinions, which remained not merely unchanged, but considerably strengthened, he came down to the House with the full intention of giving a silent vote upon the present occasion, and not obtruding himself again upon their attention. But having listened attentively to the speech of the noble Lord below him,
 1194 1195
 Mr. Hall  rose, but shouts and cries rendered the hon. Member quite inaudible.
 Captain Pechell  said, that it had been his intention to have expressed his opinions fully upon this subject; but perceiving the tone and temper of hon. Gentlemen, he knew well how vain would be the attempt to address an unwilling House. He had hoped that the admonition delivered by the Speaker might have a proper effect upon hon. Gentlemen opposite, but that hope was vain. It was his duty to stand up there in his place, and support a petition from the town that he represented, particularly when the object of those who petitioned was to obtain protection for the voter. He knew well at what cost electors maintained their opinions, and therefore it was, that he felt it to be his duty to support them on the present occasion.
 Mr. Ward  rose to second the motion. He was well aware of the difficulty of offering to the attention of the House any new argument on a subject which had been so frequently discussed in that House, and which had been so ably dealt with by his hon. Friend as to leave little for his fellow-labourers to supply. He trusted, however, that on one or two points it was in his power to add something to the clear and eloquent statement which had been made, by pointing out the practical defects of the present system. The English were a practical people, and, when any practical grievances were proved to exist, all parties in that House boasted of their desire to remove them. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had, on a former occasion, said, that "he would remove all proved abuses," and in this avowal the Gentlemen who sat by the right hon. Baronet's side expressed their full accordance. If, then, it had been proved to the right hon. Baronet that the present system was pregnant with proved abuses, that it was fraught with evils of frightful magnitude, that the evils were daily growing larger, and that they were becoming more apparent at every succeeding election, would the right hon. Baronet now refuse redress? He called upon the right hon. Baronet not to shelter himself under the silence which he had so strictly observed on the two last occasions when this subject was discussed; he called upon the right hon. Baronet not to Conceal his opinions, and state whether he would remove the proved abuses of our electoral system, by applying the only remedy which human ingenuity had as yet been able to suggest? Would the right hon. Baronet come forward and deny the abuse? Would he or his Friends suggest any other remedy? Let them at least tell the country what it had to expect from them by way of redress for this practical and proved abuse. He supposed that the right hon. Baronet attached some importance to the words he had used; he supposed that he was sincere in his professions; and when he heard so often the "cuckoo cry" which had run through the Tory ranks ever since the publication of the Tamworth manifesto, he did fancy that some meaning was intended by it. If the abuses were so great that the table of that House was covered with indignant complaints from some portion of almost every constituency, they had a right to call on
 1156 l. 1157 1158 l. l. 1159 A laugh. 1160 "The employer and the employed will thus be in the situation of two antagonist tacticians. And we shall have Livy's description of the rival stratagem of Hannibal and Fabius reduced to the scale of private discord, and realised in the petty arena of an English farm-yard. But which will be victorious? Here we behold the stout sagacious farmer hedged in on every side and guarding against all surprise; then the subtle, active, prying agent, keenly intent on his own object, and resorting to all the crafty wiles that practised ingenuity can suggest to pluck out the heart of his mystery—flattering the wife, coaxing the children, bribing the domestics, wheedling the friends, seducing the man himself into a state of semi-intoxication, in order to drown his caution and stir up his courage, and then take down his words; converting casual expressions into open avowals, putting the question boldly, and then construing hesitation or silence into assent." 1161 1162 1163 1164 1165 1166
 Sir Robert Peel : * * 1200 1201 1202 1203 1204 1205 exercise? can there be 1206 1207 1208 made 1209 1210 1211 "The tribunes soon established a more specious and popular maxim, that every citizen has an equal right to enact the laws which he is bound to obey. Instead of the centuries they convened the tribes; and the patricians, after an ineffectual struggle, submitted to the decrees of an assembly in which their votes were confounded with those of the meanest plebeians, Yet as long as the tribes successively passed over narrow bridges and gave their voices aloud, the conduct of each citizen was exposed to the eyes and ears of his friends and countrymen. The insolvent debtor consulted the wishes of his creditor, the client would have blushed to oppose the views of his patron, the general was followed by his veterans, and the aspect of a grave magistrate was a living lesson to the multitude. A new method of secret ballot abolished the influence of fear and shame, of honour and interest, and the abuse of freedom accelerated the progress of anarchy and despotism." 1212 "Poposcit tabellas, stilum accepit, demisit caput, neminem veretur, se contemnit." 1213 1214
 Viscount Sandon  said, he was quite ready to co-operate with her Majesty's Government in carrying into effect any wise and well-adjusted measure for the purpose of repressing or diminishing that amount of intimidation and bribery which upon all sides had been admitted to exist, but which had now become more notorious than before, only because in the nicely balanced state of parties contests were more frequent, while the unsuccessful candidates as their only consolation raised the outcry that their defeat was owing to bribery and corruption. But the real question they had now to discuss was, not the existence of the evil, but the propriety of the remedy, or rather, whether the ballot was not likely to produce greater mischiefs than it was designed to cure. The hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Ward) seemed to think he had made a great point against his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, because, having avowed his willingness to apply a remedy to every proved abuse, he nevertheless hesitated to adopt this specific; as if it necessarily followed because a physician told him he was suffering from the effects of disease, he must, without looking to his character as a man of sense and probity, and the nature of the medicine he offered, unhesitatingly and at once submit to the nostrums he prescribed. Until the hon. Member for Sheffield was prepared to adopt that principle in private life, it was absurd to accuse the right hon. Baronet of inconsistency, because he refused to adopt as a remedy what he contended would afford no remedy for the evils which he admitted to exist. There seemed to be a radical error pervading the entire basis of the argument on the other side. The advocates of the ballot seemed to think, that the whole essence of a man's political life and conduct was concentred in his vote, so that if secrecy were once given to the latter, the former must be completely secured. Why, the man's vote was the smallest part of his political life. Were there no associations and clubs on the one side and on the other? And if
 1173 1174 1175
 Mr. O'Connell  reminded the noble Lord, that the Irish peers had been made elective. The noble Lord was an interested party, and ought to have been the last person to start the objection he had raised, as but for the Union he would have been an hereditary peer of Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell  had not alluded to England. His remarks had had reference solely to Ireland, where the peers were elective, and where, but for the Union, the noble Lord who had raised the objection would have an hereditary seat in an Irish House of Lords.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  in moving the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Irish Poor-law Bill, wished to ask the hon. Member for Monaghan to postpone his motion for an instruction to the Committee to introduce a provision for settlement. He thought, according to the rule of the House, the hon. Member had not the power to raise, by way of instruction to the Committee, any question of the kind before going into Committee. If this question might be entertained now, it was quite clear that they might add to it a discussion on the principle of the bill, and on all the separate clauses. He believed that the authority of the Speaker in more than one case was against the course proposed to be pursued by the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Lucas  said, it was by no means his wish to do anything contrary to the past practice of the House, or to take precedence against the convenience of any hon. Member who was entitled to address the House first. His reason for moving this question in the form of an instruction to the Committee was, that when the House went into Committee on the English Poor-law Bill, they found themselves entangled at every (Step by this very question, and therefore he had proposed, for the sake of promoting the convenience of the House, that it should be discussed as a preliminary measure. He was in the hands of the House, but he thought he should be allowed to proceed with his motion.
 Mr. F. French  was of opinion, the question as to the law of settlement, proposed to be raised by the hon. Member for Monaghan ought to be decided and disposed of before the bill was proceeded with in Committee.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that at present there was no settlement clause of any kind in the bill. Now, settlements might either be in unions, or local, or in townlands, or parochial, or national. Any of these would come within the meaning of the bill. It seemed to him, therefore, it would be best not only to decide whether or not there should be any law of settlement embodied in the bill, but also that a particular and specific law of settlement should be determined upon.
 Sir E. Sugden  concurred in the view suggested by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. Until the question of settlement was decided, it was impossible to say what the bill would be. If the House should determine there should be a law of settlement, then he, for one, should give a right to relief; if not, he should support the bill as it now stood.
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that the question of settlement involved so important a principle, that it ought to be discussed in a different manner from that in which discussions were usually carried on in Committee, but, at the same time he doubted whether by taking it otherwise than in Committee, there would not be great difficulty in pronouncing an opinion that there should be any law of settlement until the details of that law and the mode in which it was to be executed were known. Now, in Committee it would be possible to afford an explanation of those details
 1231
 Mr. T. Attwood  said, before the House went into Committee, he wished to say a few words upon the bill. He was as friendly to Poor-laws as any man, but he could regard this measure only as cruel to the paupers, unjust to the tenantry, and as a delusion on the people of Ireland. He denied that Ireland was too poor for Poor-laws, for he was of opinion that the Irish nobility and gentry, who now spent their wealth in foreign countries, could easily maintain their poor as paupers or as labourers. He would take the liberty of suggesting two or three measures which he thought would really be useful to the Irish people. The first was the abolition of the unjust standard of value which now pressed with so cruel and so fraudulent a hand upon the Irish tenantry. Then, another measure he would recommend was, to arrest the arbitrary power of the landowners, over the land, the arbitrary and tyrannical powers exercised by the Irish landlords over their tenantry, and he would take possession of every acre of uncultivated land in Ireland in all cases where the owner refused to bring it into cultivation. This had been done in France, and there would be no difficulty in doing the same most beneficially in Ireland, if the Legislature would only do justice to the people, as against the selfish and sordid feelings of the aristocracy of Ireland. These, together with the reclamation of land by the drainage of bogs to be sold to the labourers at a seven years' credit, would make them in the end, happy, prosperous, and independent proprietors, and would change the whole face of Ireland, agricultural, political, and social. Then, after having established a just currency, a just tenure of lands, and the means of locating by the reclamation of land, a million of families, it would be right, with great propriety, to introduce into Ireland, just, efficient benevolent, and humane Poor-laws. There was one other suggestion, and only one other,
 1232 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.,
 Mr. O'Connell  proposed to insert, "that it shall be lawful for the Commissioners from time to time, as they may think fit, with the assent of the major part of the guardians, for the time being, to declare any such union to be dissolved, or any townland or townlands to be added to or separated from any such union."
 Mr. P. Scrope  objected to the amendment suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman, on the ground that great inconvenience had been experienced in England in consequence of such a restriction being imposed on the Commissioners.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, he had no doubt that the Poor-law Commissioners thought that any authority possessed by any other persons than themselves was not rightly vested. But although he imagined that they were not afflicted with any overpowering sense of diffidence or overweaning modesty, it was just possible that they might conceive themselves not to be infallible, and he thought that they would be more likely to give satisfaction if their decisions were ratified by the authority of the board of guardians.
 Viscount Howick  thought, the hon. and learned Gentleman was not just towards the Commissioners, in supposing that they desired to claim for themselves any superiority. An instance had been afforded in the working of the English Poor-law Bill of the inconvenience arising from the power vested in the board of guardians to control or neutralise the determination of the Commissioners in respect to the formation or alteration of the unions. The case was this:—At the time that a certain union was formed, some three or four small parishes would have been included in it by the Commissioners, had not some strong objections been urged against it by the owners of the property in those parishes. In consequence of those objections, the parishes were (contrary to the judgment of the Commissioners) included in another union. At a subsequent period, the inhabitants of those particular parishes, and the owners of the property in them, changed their minds, and were desirous of being included in the union to which the Commissioners, in the first instance, were about to connect them, and would have done so if no objection had been raised. Upon this change of opinion being signified, the Commissioners were about to alter the constitution of the two unions, by taking from the one the three or four parishes which had been improperly included in it, and joining them to the other with which they ought at first to have been united. But the guardians of the union to which these parishes now belonged objected, and the consequence was, that the alteration could not take place. The ground of the objection by the guardians was, that those particular parishes contributed towards the general expense of the union, and if they were to be taken away a greater portion of the expense would devolve on the remaining parishes constituting that union, so that,
 1234
 Viscount Clements  thought, that the Commissioners might be desirous to give a greater permanence to the unions than they ought to have. Unions might be formed most conveniently for all parties at the present time, but which twenty years hence might be found to be very inconvenient. He was anxious, therefore, that the power of the Commissioners in this respect should be limited. He had no objection to giving full powers to the Commissioners in cases in which they acted judicially between party and party, but he was opposed to giving them power to act independently of other parties.
 Mr. F. French  thought, that the case stated by the noble Lord below him (Lord Howick) was no answer to the amendment proposed by Mr. O'Connell. According to the noble Lord's statement, the union which included the three or four parishes that were considered to have been improperly made a portion of that union was obliged, in consequence of those parishes being so included, to build a larger workhouse than would otherwise have been necessary. There was nothing unreasonable, therefore, in the board of guardians objecting to those parishes being taken from the union. They were justified in saying to the Commissioners, "True it is you, in the first instance, did wrong in joining those parishes with us, but since you have done so an extra expense has been occasioned by it, and, therefore, although we think you were originally wrong, yet we are not now disposed to allow those parishes, to be taken out of the union, and thus impose on the other parishes a proportionally greater burthen."
 Mr. J. Grattan  did not see any force in the argument of his hon. Friend in reference to the present measure. There was no analogy between the law as applying to England and as applying to Ireland. In England, the Poor-law unions were formed of several small parishes, and the union of these parishes might be more or less convenient, according to circumstances; but in Ireland, the unions, as they were called, would consist of districts into which the whole of Ireland was to be divided. It would behove the Commissioners to be cautious how they formed these districts, but having
 1235
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  was of opinion, that the guardians ought to have a voice before any alteration was allowed to be made by the Commissioners in unions that have been already established.
 Sir Edward Sugden  could not vote for the amendment, because he did not know in what way it would operate. He was favourable to some restriction being imposed on the Commissioners; and what he conceived would be the better course was, that the proposition of the Commissioners should be referred to the board of guardians, who should have the power of negativing it.
 Sir R. Ferguson  believed, that the best source of information which could be offered to guide the Commissioners in their decision would be found to emanate from the guardians, to whom some control over the unions ought to be confided.
 Sir W. Somerville  concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and would support his amendment. He thought it desirable to conciliate the people of Ireland as much as possible by means of this measure, and could see nothing unreasonable in allowing the board of guardians to possess this control.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that although the evidence laid before him was strongly in favour of the clause as it stood, yet so strong an opinion had been expressed by many of the Irish Members, he was not indisposed to consent to an amendment like that of the hon. Member for Dublin.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that he found considerable difficulty in acquiescing in this clause, which would enable the Commissioners to make a new division of the country, abolishing the existing and well-known divisions. It would, besides, impose an immense additional labour on the Poor-law Commissioners.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the clause merely gave the Commissioners the power of making these new subdivisions in the event of their being found necessary, relation being always had to the existing divisions, where they could be ascertained without difficulty. The same plan had been adopted with
 1236
 Mr. O'Cornell  found the claim liable to the same objection which he had taken to Clause 16, and proposed amending it in a similar manner by inserting the words— "with the consent of the majority of the guardians."
 Viscount Morpeth  supported the clause as it stood. The former clause was for an extension or alteration of the unions; the present clause was merely for arranging the election of the guardians within each.
 Mr. Lucas  could not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that this proviso, in any manner, cast a stigma upon the clergy of Ireland. There was, no doubt, that clergymen of all persuasions were in the habit of meeting on terms of the most perfect unanimity where charity was the object. That he readily admitted, and it was not through the fear of any change in that respect that he opposed the hon. and learned Gentleman's amendment, but because he did not think that clergymen, consistently with their clerical duties, could attend to those of
 1238
 Colonel Conolly  opposed the amendment. He was averse to the interference of clergymen in other than spiritual concerns, and would not besides, in reference to this measure, run the risk of having any difference of opinion between clergymen of different persuasions acting in the capacity of guardians.
 Mr. D. O'Conor  was understood to support the amendment, which he would not-do if he conceived it would have the effect of creating any hostile divisions.
 Mr. Shaw  readily bore testimony to the perfect unanimity which prevailed in Ireland amongst all classes of the clergy, when charity and benevolence were to be practised, but at the same time concurred in the objection urged by the hon. Member for Monaghan, against the omission of this proviso. But that was not his (Mr. Shaw's) greatest objection. He felt that there was a system of elections connected with this Bill which might give rise to bickerings, and hostilities, and party feelings, from which clergymen could not be too remote. He moreover coincided in the opinion of, he believed, Mr. Senior, that there would be a jealousy excited on the part of the Irish landlords if their property was to be taxed by clergymen of a different persuasion from themselves, and a feeling that there was a hostility against them and in favour of the poorer classes. The opinion to which he referred was, as well as he recollected, that if relief were given to the able-bodied in Ireland, it would come in the end to the doling out of the property of the
 1239
 Sir M. L. Chapman  said, that he knew the sentiments of the clergy pretty generally upon this subject, and he took upon himself to say, that they were, as might naturally be expected, fully alive to the odium of resisting those applications for relief, to which, if they filled the office of guardians of the poor they must necessarily be open. He thought the proper position of the clergy to be that of the advocates of the poor before the board of guardians; that they, not being members of that body, should, when fitting occasions presented themselves, make strong representations and remonstrances on behalf of any poor in their respective neighbourhoods who might have just cause of complaint.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he should support the clause, considering that it would be much better for the clergy to keep free from the responsibilities which necessarily attached to those duties that guardians of the poor had to perform. He acted upon that principle as regarded his own Church, and he certainly thought he had a right to do so as regarded every other.
 Viscount Morpeth  thought, there was a very general feeling of repugnance entertained towards any plan that would include clergy of any denomination in the board of guardians, but he likewise thought, that that repugnance did not exist amongst themselves, on the contrary, was prevalent chiefly amongst the laity. He did not, however, overlook the fact, that the clergy had in Ireland frequently acted together with perfect concord in promoting objects of charity; but the House, he had no doubt, would see a wide distinction between relief that was compulsory and perpetual, and that which was merely voluntary and occasional. He requested the Committee to recollect, that the board of guardians would have the power of appointing a chaplain to the workhouse, and he thought, that that of itself formed a sufficient objection to there being clerical Members on the board. It was his opinion that the clergy should neither be members nor agents of the board, but mediators between them and the poor.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that he had had communications with several of the clergy of
 1240
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that there was nothing in the Bill which went to compel the clergy to accept the office of guardians. If the proposed alteration were effected in this clause, the clergy might, if elected, take the office or not.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  expressed his belief, that the proviso contained an enactment which was most useful, and that it ought not to be expunged from the Bill, The rendering clergymen eligible to act as guardians, independently of all other considerations, would produce agitation and feuds among them at the elections not at all consistent with their duties and the character of their office.
 Mr. Wyse  suggested, if the elegibility of clergymen should be admitted, there might be a certain number (one or two) connected with each denomination,  ex officio
 Sir F. Trench  thought, there was a wide difference between calling on the clergy to act in the administration of charity and the imposition of a tax. As the latter was the case contemplated by the amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he should object to placing them in so invidious a situation.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  proposed, that after the words, "Be it enacted that every justice
 1242 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  was opposed to the amendment," because he objected to the appointment of  ex officio
 Mr. Shaw  also objected to the amendment, as it would exclude the eldest sons of the richest land proprietors in the union from being eligible to the office of guardian. He thought that there would be sufficient difficulty in finding guardians to the poor in Ireland under the present provisions of the Bill, and there was no valid reason for increasing them.
 Mr. O'Connell  meant to oppose the whole clause, and he felt it his imperative duty to take the sense of the House upon it. He objected to the principle of the clause—he objected to magistrates being  ex officio ex officio
 Colonel Conolly  was of opinion that the clause ought to be retained. There were many gentlemen in the commission who were the agents of absentee landlords, who managed property that would be assessed, and who, from their local knowledge and high character, would be most efficient members of the board of guardians.
 Mr. Jephson  said, that the omission of the clause would, in effect, be a general disparagement of the characters of the magistracy. He thought the clause one of the most beneficial parts of the Bill. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin said, that if magistrates were deserving
 1243
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had said, that the magistrates of Ireland were good and bad; therefore this clause would be productive of bad as well as good. The hon. Gentleman had not pointed out the proportions, whether the good or the bad preponderated. But on the hon. Gentleman's own showing, the clause ought not to be adopted. If  ex officio
  Viscount Morpeth  could not agree to the proposition for omitting the clause. He would not enter into a discussion of the character of the magistracy of Ireland, because this was not the fit opportunity for doing so; but no doubt in this, as in every other class, there were some good and some bad. He trusted, however, that the good preponderated, and a great portion of them were well-calculated to judge and determine for the good of all parties. In England, any county magistrate was  ex officio ex officio
 Mr. Shaw  contended, that if a gentleman was fit to remain in the commission of the peace, he must, at least, be equally qualified to act as a member of the board of guardians under a poor-law bill. It was too much the practice in that House to make attacks on the magistracy of Ireland, but there could not be a more respectable body.
 Mr. Jervis  gave Ministers credit for wishing to assimilate the present Bill to that of England; but looking to what had taken place in this country, he was of opinion that magistrates ought not to be  ex officio
 Viscount Howick  did not know what the case was to which the hon. Member for Chester had alluded, all he had said was, that he could bring forward an instance of such conduct on the part of a magistrate, and he could not prove a negative to a general charge of that kind. From his own experience, however, and that of almost any gentleman with whom he had spoken on the working of the Poor-law Bill, his opinion was in direct opposition to the assertion of the hon. Member for Chester, and he thought the clause in the English Bill, which made magistrates  ex officio
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion, that the Government had done right by limiting the number, because, in doing so, they had limited the evil. But he must ask, if the appointment of magistrates was the best part of the Bill, why the number was limited? He was of opinion that the guardians should all be elected, and, therefore, he should vote for the omission of the clause.
 Mr. J. Grattan  said, there were 100 magistrates or thereabouts in each county in Ireland, and he supposed it to be intended that there should be four unions in each county. His apprehension therefore was, that the  ex officio
 Sir E. Sugden  thought, it was absolutely necessary that the beginning of this experiment should be committed to the administration of competent persons. He did not deny that the elective guardians would be competent persons, but it was more likely that the magistrates should be found to be possessed of that character. If the contrary was shown to be the case when the Bill came into operation, then they must alter this provision of it. In an experiment of such magnitude as this, it could not but happen that alterations would be found necessary. As from the duties of a situation he had the honour to fill, he possessed some knowledge of the magistracy of Ireland, and as having no inclination or interest to speak of them otherwise than as they existed, he must
 1245
 Mr. Grote  observed, that from what had been said on the other side of the House, it might be supposed that this was the first petition with a prayer having reference to the constitution of the House of Lords which had ever been offered in that House. Such, however, was by no means the case, as many similar petitions had been presented.
 Mr. Grote  had a petition to present from Merthyr Tydvil, signed by nearly 3,800 individuals. The petitioners prayed for universal suffrage, the abolition of the property qualification, vote by ballot, short Parliaments, and an elective House of Lords.
 The Speaker  did not think, that in strictness the petition could be refused. The House had allowed a discussion to take place last Session in regard to reforms in the House of Lords, and that discussion having been permitted, he did not think the petition could consistently be refused.
 The Speaker  had no recollection of the circumstance to which the noble Lord had alluded. He had simply stated his own impression in regard to the matter, and it was for the House to decide whether the petition ought or ought not to be received.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, no one could be more opposed to the prayer of the petition than he, was, but he could see no objection to its being received. Suppose a petition were presented to the House of Lords, praying for a reform of the House of Commons, or to
 1229
 Sir R. Inglis  said, if the prayer had been, not for an elective House of Peers, but for an elective Sovereign, would the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, he would ask, contend that the petition ought to be received? He could not believe the hon. Member would. If the House were to tolerate petitions in which parties demanded an elective House of Lords, he saw no reason why others should not be presented asking for an elective Sovereign.
 Viscount Dungannon  said, two years ago a petition had been offered praying for the exclusion of the Bishops from the House of Lords. To that petition he had called the attention of the chair, and the right hon. Gentleman had decided that it ought not to be received. He felt it his duty to recal that circumstance to the recollection of the right hon. the Speaker, as he thought the first decision ought to decide the fate of the present petition.
 Viscount Dungannon  objected to the petition being received. The petitioners prayed for an elective House of Lords, which he conceived was irregular. He moved that the petition be read.
 Viscount Dungannon  put it to the chair whether such a petition could be laid on the table. The petitioners prayed that the House of Lords might be made elective, and the acceptance of the petition would be an improper interference with the other House of Parliament.
 Mr. James 
 1249
 Mr. Blake  expressed a hope that the provisions of the Bill should be extended to Ireland, and stated it to be his understanding that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated his intention to that effect in Committee upon the Bill.
 Mr. O'Connell , on the 31st clause being proposed, asked whether it was intended that all the salaries it ordered, should be paid out of the poor-rates. He conceived,
 1264
 The O'Connor Don  thought it right to state, that a petition against this bill had been agreed to by the county which he had the honour to represent, under the conviction that poor laws, and a system of workhouses, were not at all adapted for the habits of the people of Ireland.
 Mr. O'Connell  could see no-reason why these salaries should not be chargeable on the consolidated fund. They had already agreed, that a sum of money should be advanced out of the consolidated fund, for the purpose of building the workhouses in which these salaries were to be earned by the officers of the different unions; and they might take his word for it, that they would no more get that money back from the people of Ireland than they would get back the million which they had voted from the same fund for the relief of the Irish clergy.
 Mr. O'Connell  could not concur in the views of the right hon. Gentleman who had proposed the amendment, simply because he thought that right hon. Gentleman had gone farther than he ought. He should, however, support the amendment proposed, because it imposed some limitation upon what was otherwise an undefined system of poor-laws. He supported the amendment because, if carried, it would render the Poor-law less fatal to Ireland. The noble Lord, the Member for Leitrim, had endeavoured to answer the arguments, but he had not touched upon the calculations of the right hon. Gentleman; while upon this subject, the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, had made a very eloquent speech—a speech in which there was a great deal of oratory, and no political economy at all. That noble Lord had read an account of a case of very great
 1277 1278 1279
 Captain Jones  was disposed to concur in the views taken upon the subject by the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin. As the bill stood, it allowed persons in a state of destitution to make a claim for relief, but it did not give them any title to relief, but left the guardians at liberty to say whether they would give them relief or not. With regard to the objection which had been urged, that it would be impossible to draw the line between the able-bodied and the sick, he would observe that there would be a medical officer in each union, and he would be enabled to say whether a man applying for relief, would be able to work or not.
 Colonel Conolly  fully concurred in the view taken of this question by his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Shaw) which he thought was much more consistent with the wants and resources of the country than the sweeping measure proposed by the bill. The amendment began at the moderate end, in trying this system in a country where it was hitherto unknown, and where they had, of course, no data to decide upon its working. The project of his right hon. and learned Friend could be tried at once, and would relieve the country from the alarm into which it had been thrown by the threatened application of so extensive a system as the bill proposed. The Committee ought to consider whether, in the extensive application of that principle, they did not create a greater degree of pauperism than they cured. He did not offer these remarks in any spirit of hostility to the Queen's Government. He made them from a sincere desire to divest the measure of that alarm which in its present state it was calculated to excite in the country; for in the present state of Ireland, he thought that nothing could be more injurious than to admit even by implication the right of able-bodied poor to demand support. But the bill ought to be accompanied by the provisions suggested by his right hon. Friend, respecting public works and emigration. A small fund would facilitate emigration, and discharge Ireland of its superfluous population. He would urge the subject of public works upon the attention of Government, because they would much increase the prosperity of the country. In conclusion, he entreated her Majesty's Ministers not to resist the proposition of his right hon. Friend.
 Lord J. Russell  wished these salaries to be economically managed, and was not certain what the most economical mode of managing them might be; but of this he was sure, that they would never be economically managed if they were paid out of the consolidated fund. He could not agree with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin that this bill had been called for by the people of England and not by the people of Ireland, and, therefore, he could see no reason why that which was a local charge in England should not also be a local charge in Ireland.
 Lord John Russell  said, that if the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Dublin, only conferred upon the people of Ireland one half of the benefits to be derived from the bill, while it went to impose upon them one-half of its burden, he might have been disposed to listen to it; but his opinion of the proposition was, that while it would subject them to at least three-fourths of the burden, it would not enable them to participate in more than one-fourth of the benefits. The erection alone of workhouses in different parts of Ireland, together with the expenses necessarily contingent upon their maintenance, would be in itself a great burden. But in respect of destitution, as well as of
 1282
 Lord John Russell  observed, that his right hon. Friend had, after some deliberation, judged it better to make the measure, with regard to Ireland, the subject of a separate Bill.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that the first, and indeed the last, objection made by the right hon. Baronet to this Bill was that it was an alteration of the Reform Bill. He owned that it appeared to him that if they were to insist upon a pedantic adherence to every Bill that became law, they would not be acting for the general convenience or benefit of the country. This bill was objected to because it was an alteration of the Reform Bill. Now, according to the Reform Bill, the polling in cities and boroughs was to be taken in two days, and yet Parliament had since agreed that it should be taken in one day. Hon. Members seemed to have forgotten that that alteration had taken place. Another alteration had been made by Parliament in the Reform Bill respecting the polling-places; and when it was proposed in the other House of Parliament, it was only objected to that the power of altering them should be given to the magistrates of quarter sessions without the consent of the Crown. He could name another and more recent instance of proposed alteration. It was part of the provision of the Reform Bill that a fee of one shilling should be paid on registering. It was, however, said by hon. Members opposite, that that was an inconvenient provision for the voter, that it subjected him to
 1255 1256 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  would now take the same part he had taken on a former occasion, in reference to this measure. He admitted, that as far as regarded the freemen, the bill was a just one, but the noble Lord endeavoured to thwart that object by adding another to the bill—viz., the remission of the rates to the 10 l. 1259
 Mr. Maclean  said, that he should most certainly oppose the third reading of the Bill. The two questions involved in the measure were so totally distinct that they ought not to be mixed up together. What was the object of the Bill with respect to the electors? The noble Lord proposed that those voters who were already in arrear with their taxes should be allowed to go farther back in arrear—namely, to the month of October of the preceding year; and yet what was the objection urged by the advocates of the Reform Bill against the scot and lot voters? It was, that they were in nine cases out of ten paupers, and, therefore, unfit to have the franchise. It should, however, be recollected that there was a test of the solvency of the scot and lot voter, because before he could vote he must prove that he had paid his taxes. But now the noble Lord proposed to give those who were not scot and lot voters a right to vote though they had not paid up their taxes. His objections to the Bill were, that it interfered with the provisions of the Reform Act; that it mixed up two questions so entirely distinct as on the first mention of their connexion to have been declared not only by the noble Lord but also by the Speaker as incompatible, and not to be incorporated in one Bill; and that it was but the commencement of a series of changes to which the noble Lord should be cautious how he gave countenance, as it would lead the people to believe that the strong ground which the noble Lord took in the first week of the session on the question of the ballot would not be maintained, that he would not remain firm in his purpose to oppose changes, and that having yielded this, the noble Lord would, with a little more pressure, yield the question which he then refused to concede. Nor would the change end with the ballot: the next step would be the reduction of the household qualification to an annual value of 5 l. 1251
 Mr. Litton  observed, that five-sixths of the Members for Ireland had voted in favour of the bill and of its principle. He thought that that circumstance was a sufficient indication of what the feelings of the people of Ireland were.
 Mr. Lucas  said, he had listened with pleasure to the hon. Member who had last addressed the House, and whose opinions, from his experience with respect to this subject, were entitled to attention. But the arguments of the hon. Member, whatever force they possessed, applied with equal force to the question of whether they should have a poor-law at all. That question the House had answered in the affirmative, and as the principles on which that decision was founded had been so often and so fully discussed it was not now his intention to refer to those arguments of the hon. Member opposite which applied to the general question. He concurred with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that the Government would have acted more wisely if it had adhered to the precedent which it had established in England. The hon. gentleman had said, that this would be a rash experiment, for the bill would entail upon Ireland additional expense. Now, there was one argument which weighed with him beyond all others, and that was, that, in their legislation upon this subject, they would hold out the hand of charity to the destitute. That was one principle in the bill which claimed his support; the second was, that they held out the hand of relief without legislating upon the discouraging principle to those who claimed relief and really required it. If there were any principles contained in the bill that were valuable, they were these two principles, and therefore it was, that he concurred in the necessity of supporting the progress of the bill. In the first place, they held out the hand of relief to the destitute—by this bill the destitute who were on the point of starving, would be relieved. What would be the consequence if they made a distinction? They would relieve the crippled, the sick, and the old, and they refused it to those who had no means whereby they could live. The broad
 1276
 Sir Edward Sugden  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that the principal want of Ireland was capital. She wanted repose and capital, but repose must be the first procured, and he supported this Bill because he thought it was likely to produce the repose which would inevitably lead to the introduction of capital.
 1280
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that it was an excess of modesty in the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to ask the representatives of England to grant the amount of these salaries out of the consolidated fund, at the very time that he told them plainly, that his constituents, the people of Ireland, would never pay back to that fund the sum granted to them for the building of workhouses, nor the million granted for the relief of the Irish clergy.
 Mr. Shaw  thought, the present was the most convenient time to move the amendment of which he had given notice. He proposed to add, after line 42, the words, "workhouses and asylums for the lame, impotent, old, and blind," with a view to give the clause the effect of limiting the relief to be provided to the necessary relief of the lame, impotent, old, blind, and such others as are destitute and not able to work. He took that opportunity of raising a question of very great importance, as the forms of the House and his own indisposition prevented him from bringing it forward in a more regular manner. It was a question of very great importance, as on it, in a great degree, depended the law of settlement, the right to relief in public workhouses, and, still more, the accompanying and auxiliary of emigration and the establish-
 1266 l. 1267 1268
 Mr. Shaw  was inclined to think, that this great experiment ought to be set a going at the public expense. Afterwards the charge of these salaries should be a local charge.
 Mr. Barron  was a great stickler for justice for Ireland, but, on this occasion, he must be a stickler for justice for England too. He thought that the bill, being for the local benefit of Ireland, should be carried into effect at the expense of the locality which it was to benefit; and, as an Irishman, he hoped that no division would be taken on such a question.
 Mr. Barron  said, if he understood the argument of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Shaw) correctly, it was this, that a large number of able-bodied paupers would be supported under this bill. He (Mr. Barron) did not fear anything of the sort. The restrictions were so stringent, that they did not offer any inducement for able-bodied paupers to go into the workhouse. The first was confinement, and, looking to the character and habits of the Irish people, the very nature of relief so to be administered was a guarantee against any large number of persons applying for relief, subject to that restriction, unless under circumstances of extreme destitution. And was there any
 1272
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that although the noble Lord had taunted them with having proposed the repeal of the registry fee of 1 s., l. l. 1257 l.
 Mr. Ellis  thought, that the able-bodied poor might be admitted into the workhouse, and he was borne out in taking that view of the question by the opinion expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that no Irishman would
 1281
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  wished to say a few words in answer to the arguments of the hon. Member for Northallerton. The hon. Member asserted, that any fund raised for the support of the poor was a tax on the property of the country—in fact, on productive industry. The same argument might be applied to any tax whatever. In his opinion, a poor-law was a measure of police, and the absence of a poor-law froze up the various sources of industry in Ireland. If the security for life and property which such a measure would give existed in Ireland, capital and enterprise would soon find their way into that country. At present, English capitalists were terrified from speculating there, lest their farms should be inundated by the destitute able-bodied, a contingency which was always to be found in a country where that class had no legal means of relief. He maintained that the relief of the able-bodied labourer was by far the most important part of this Bill. If in any district in Ireland where mendicancy now prevailed, a provision for the relief of the destitute was introduced, English capital would soon find its way there, and not only English but Irish; as it was well known that at present upwards of a million annually of Irish capital was invested in the English funds, in consequence of the risk of investing it in trade or agriculture in Ireland. If they refused relief to the able-bodied labourer, he must starve; and in twenty-four hours he would be sick as well as destitute, and relief would then be imperative. He would, however, admit that auxiliaries, such as emigration and public works, would be absolutely necessary to the efficient working of this Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the argument of his right hon. Friend did not apply to this measure, because it provided, with respect to voters placed on the registry for the first time that their taxes should be paid up to the 5th of April. By that the Bill preserved the test of solvency. With regard to the provision for the payment of the taxes up to the 11th of October, it only applied to those who were now on the registry, or who should be hereafter placed upon it according to the regulation established by the Reform Act in the first instance of registry, which required the taxes to be paid up to April. If there were anything in the right hon. Gentleman's objection, it was singular that this provision should have been objected to by the hon. Member for Leeds, because it provided only a remedy for the grievances of parties either now on the register, or who might hereafter be placed there. With respect to
 1258
 Mr. Wyse  had not seen, during the whole course of this discussion, any rule laid down as to what was the nature and extent of the powers which were vested by the bill in the board of guardians with regard to the distribution of relief. He wished to know whether it was intended that free action should be given to the guardians in contradistinction to the Commissioners, or whether they should have a law of settlement, by which encouragement might be given to well intentioned landlords.
 Mr. W. Roche  was anxious to relieve Ireland from any pressure which ought not to attach to it; but the payment of these salaries was so intrinsic a part of this bill, that he thought the expense of them ought to fall on the country, which was to be affected by its operation.
 Mr. Wrightson  begged to offer a few observations to the House, as, from the public situation he had filled, they might consider themselves entitled to an opinion from him on this subject. There were two principles now before the House; one was what might be called the narrow view of the subject, that of confining its operation to sick and impotent; the other and more comprehensive, that of including all destitute persons. The noble Lord had rejected all classification, and had placed it on the ground of destitution only. This he considered an impolitic measure. The first objection to the limited scheme was the difficulty of distinguishing between the favoured classes and the other portions of the community. But the statute of Elizabeth, and all the other English statutes, and the Scotch statutes also, proceeded upon the same principle of classification; and it was quite clear that if the authorities under the Bill went honestly to work, there could be little difficulty experienced in regard to this part of the measure. The great question, after all, was, whether it were right that a distinction should be taken, and the opinion he held upon the point, namely, that the relief to be afforded should be restricted,
 1273 l. l.; s. s. 1274 1275
 Sir Robert Peel  was desirous of stating the grounds upon which he objected to this Bill. His main ground of objection was, that he considered it the first step towards an alteration in principle of that which he understood to have been the settlement of the great question relating to the representative system in this country. The noble Lord had referred to the zeal which some of those individuals who had strongly opposed the Reform Bill were now displaying in the vindication of that measure. Now, nothing appeared to him to be more perfectly consistent than man's giving every reasonable opposition to the Reform Bill while it formed the subject of Parliamentary discussion, but when that Bill had been passed by the Legislature, accepting it as a great national and constitutional settlement, and being prepared to vindicate its provisions. He (Sir Robert Peel) did not profess to be at all more enamoured of the Reform Bill than he had been at a former period; but quite as zealously as those who declared themselves enamoured of it most highly, he would defend its existing provisions. He would oppose any attempt to undermine or break through the provisions of that Bill, or pass over the limits which it prescribed, as much as if it were attempted to restore the nomination boroughs, or to curtail the franchise. Whatever pretext of justice might be assigned for concession upon any particular point, he would oppose the concession; since so much greater evil must flow from such a change than good could possibly accrue. The course therefore, which his duty prescribed to him with reference to this question was that of maintaining, as far as in him lay, the Reform Bill as the settlement of a great constitutional question; and in adopting this course he was acting in perfect consistency with his known political opinions. The Reform Bill established three qualifications for Parliamentary voters. First, that the voter should have
 1252 l. 1253 l. l., l. l., 1254 l.
 Sir W. Follett  wished to say a few words, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with whom his right hon. Friend (Mr. Goulburn) was at issue, in order that the House might understand the precise nature of the proposed alteration. He agreed that in order to entitle the 10 l. l. s. 1260
 Mr. W. Miles  opposed the amendment. He admired the emigration clause in this bill, but he wished that the noble Lord had introduced in preference to this measure the 43rd of Elisabeth. He also desired to see the measure accompanied by a large grant for the purpose of providing useful labour for the Irish peasantry: and felt quite assured that had the noble Lord introduced such a proposition, he would have been cheerfully supported by the people of England.
 Viscount Clements  admitted that his gallant Friend, who had just spoken, must be considered well acquainted with the state of Ireland, but he could not agree with him in the conclusions to which he had come. Indeed, looking at the great improvement which his hon. and gallant Friend had made in his estate by good management, he had expected that he
 1271
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the question was, whether the relief should be administered at the discretion of the guardians, or be limited, by the bill, to the lame, the impotent, and the blind, &c. Now the practice, under the bill, would not, he supposed, differ much from that which he (Mr. Shaw) had said, should be the strict rule, but then the principle was important which made it the strict rule in almost every case, at least to such an extent as to fetter the discretion of the guardians. So important did he admit this principle to be, that he thought it but fair to have the sense of the Committee expressed upon it. The principle of the right hon. and learned Gentleman would lead to much greater mischiefs than those which
 1269 1270
 Mr. Borthwick  said, that though he was favourable to the object of the petition, yet he thought it so important to adhere to the regular forms of the House, that he should oppose the reception of the petition on the ground of irregularity. He hoped, however, the hon. and gallant Member for Oldham would consent to withdraw it.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that many petitions subscribed according to the forms of the House, but which in the body contained severe remonstrances, were received without objection. This document was respectfully worded, but announced itself to be a remonstrance; and he could not see why a difference should be made, or that this document should be rejected on so trivial an objection.
 Sir G. Strickland  said, that as the document prayed the House to do certain things, he thought that prayer brought it within the meaning of a petition.
 Mr. Borthwick  expressed his determination to divide the House.
 Mr. Rice  hoped, the hon. and gallant Member would consent to withdraw it for the present. It was signed by one individual only, on behalf of himself and others, and therefore the hon. and gallant Member had only to communicate to that individual that the House, on a point of form, and not from any indisposition or disregard to entertain its object, could not receive it, and therefore to suggest an alteration, putting the document in the proper shape.
 General Johnson  said, he did not think that the parties from whom it emanated would be at all disposed to make the alteration suggested; and therefore he did not feel justified in withdrawing it.
 General Johnson  presented a petition for the abolition of the New Poor-law, from the inhabitant householders of a town in Yorkshire (the name of which did not reach us). The hon. and gallant Member said, that he ought to inform the House that the parties to this petition called themselves remonstrancers, instead of petitioners in the usual way, but as the petition did not contain anything that was disrespectful to
 1361
 General Johnson  was understood to decline to do so.
 Mr. Liddell  confessed, that he had not seen the introduction of the Poor-law Amendment Act into the northern part of England regarded with any particular marks of satisfaction, because it so happened that the evils of which the noble Lord had complained as having existed under the old system had not existed there; for while the people in that part of the country considered themselves able to support their poor, they were not prepared without sufficient grounds, to admit so great a change as that which had been effected by the new law. But although it was true that he did not regard the new law with any particular affection, he felt bound to declare that he could not support the motion of the hon. Member for Oldham. He had the honour to be a member of the committee which had been appointed to inquire into the operation of the new law, which Committee had indicated every wish to go fairly and impartially into the consideration of the whole state of the law as
 1390 1391 1392
 Lord John Russell  hoped, the House would not adopt the manner recommended by the hon. Member who had just sat down of disposing of the original motion. No consideration that the Committee was now sitting—no consideration that future inquiry might be made—ought to prevent the House from coming to a decision upon a point upon which he thought the House was fully and sufficiently informed—namely, whether the New Poor-law should be totally and absolutely repealed. He must say, he thought it a matter of great satisfaction to the defenders of that Act, after the unmeasured terms which had been used against it, more especially at those meetings at which the hon. and learned Gentleman said, there had been no threatening on the part of the multitude, but where, at the same time, every kind of exciting language had been used—he did think, after all these attempts, and after all such evidence as could be collected had been presented to that House, the time was now come when they might say whether they were prepared to decide that the Poor-law Amendment Act should or should not be repealed. He would be no party to holding out to the country, if this question were now put off, that any decision to which the Poor law Committee could come, or of which they had any prospect, would be at all liable to lead to the repeal of that law, or to any alteration of its main provisions. And he must also say, that although many of the charges which were made against that law seemed to have been abandoned, yet those who had lately attacked it, had attacked it on grounds different from those they had formerly advanced—namely, that it took away from the able-bodied labourer, while not in the receipt of wages, the power of getting an allowance for his family. Last year they had been told, that the chief pressure was upon the aged; and the hon. Gentleman to-night attacked it on a different account. The question mooted last year, and partly this, was, that although the bill might be applicable to, and work beneficially for, the agricultural districts, yet it was totally inapplicable to towns and manufacturing populations. The hon. Member, nevertheless, now said, it worked well in towns, and that it ought to be repealed as regarded the agricultural districts. While accusations of so shifting a character were afloat—accusations which
 1407 1408 1409 1410
 Lord John Russell  thought, that as this paper was not in the form prescribed by the House, the hon. and gallant Member had much better withdraw it now, and present it again in an amended form.
 Mr. Harvey  remarked, that if, on the one hand, there were many hon. Members who, like himself, felt it impossible, at the present stage of the inquiry, to give the motion of the hon. Member for Oldham their instant assent, so, on the other hand, he thought that it would be obvious that it was still more difficult to give the motion a positive negative, more especially after the speech of the noble Lord. The noble Lord had given small or rather no encouragement to the House or to the country to hope that the Government would, in the slightest degree, relax in their attachment to this Bill.—Over and over again the Government asserted that they would pin their fame in future times upon this measure, and that, however fruitful in errors and strong in weakness all their other policy might have been, they would yet be prepared to cast to the winds every other pretension, so that they might be recognised by posterity as the authors of the Poor-law Amendment Act. If that was the sentiment with which this measure was regarded by the Cabinet, he admired the courage with which the noble Lord avowed and adhered to it; but when the House heard from the noble Lord who was now taking so active a part in the Poor-law Committee, a speech, in many parts able, and ingenious throughout, he did not know what the House in its hopes, or the country in its fears, ought to expect. While, however, he thought that this motion should not be met by a direct negative, he participated in the difficulty felt by other hon. Members as to giving it unqualified support. He could not, for one, exclude from his recollection the fact, that he had voted for the Poor-law Amendment Act, and he did so from a feeling which would still induce him to countenance many of its provisions—namely, that it gave protection to the fruits of industry, and acted as a discouragement to those who preferred idleness to honest labour. It was the same principle which had led him to oppose the claims of the state paupers, and of all those who, being able to find work, were too lazy to do it. With these impressions strong in his mind, he was not prepared to vote for the instant and unqualified repeal of the law, still less would he be entrapped into
 1401 l. l. 1402 1403 1404 s. s. d. l. s. 1405 s. s.
 Mr. Darby  could not give a silent vote on this occasion, in consequence of what the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department had said at the commencement of the Session, when he (Mr. Darby) had said, that unless there was some relaxation in the system of relief under the new law, he (Mr. Darby) should be compelled to introduce some amendment. Now, the noble Lord opposite (Lord Howick) had said, that in the agricultural districts, there had been no relaxation of the system; if that had not been the case, he confessed himself to be guilty of neglecting to do that which he had promised to do. He (Mr. Darby) was prepared to show, that there had been a relaxation in the country districts. He did not complain of it, on the contrary, he thought that the Commissioners had used, in that respect, a wise discretion; but he did not think it right, that the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, should keep the fact from the public that such a relaxation had taken place. He had received a letter from the chairman of the board of guardians for the union of Hailsham, in the county of Sussex, stating that without some relaxation of the system it would be impossible to go on. To that letter, the Poor-law Commissioners had answered, that they had under their consideration the letter of the board of guardians, and that they regretted to learn, that owing to the severity of the weather men had been thrown out of work, and that their families were thereby reduced to a state of destitution. The letter went on to say, that the Commissioners considered with reference to those circumstances and the state of the workhouse, that out-door relief might be temporarily afforded. This relaxation had been the reason why he had not brought the subject forward, coupled with the circumstance that the Poor-law Committee had not brought their labours to a close. The Commissioners had, he admitted, allowed that letter to be communicated to other districts in East Sussex, and that course with that permission had been followed. He believed the difficulty of the new law had
 1397 1398 s. s.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that as it concluded with a prayer, the petition ought to be received.
 The Speaker  observed, that there was nothing in the petition itself that could induce the House not to receive it. But in point of form it was a remonstrance, and not a petition, and if this were received, he could not say what sort of remonstrances might hereafter be sent up.
 The Speaker  said, it was clear that the petition was not worded according to the regular form, and it would be for the House to decide whether it ought to be received or not.
 Mr. Fielden , in reply, was understood to say, that the noble Lord had stated, that he had no objections to the Bill, or at least that he did not understand his objections. Now he (Mr. Fielden) had repeatedly stated, that he objected to the principle of the Bill, to nearly the whole of its details, and to the machinery with which it had been carried out. He had endeavoured to show the pernicious working of the new law, and also that the old Poor-law, when fairly carried out, was better administered than the new Act. None of his objections to the new law had been removed by the speeches of the noble Lords and other Members who supported it; on the contrary, his dislike to the measure had, if possible, been increased by the tone of the debate. [ Cries of Divide! 1413
 Mr. Fielden  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a repeal of the Poor-law Amendment Act. The hon. Member, who was sometimes inaudible, was understood to say, that he believed this to be one of the most important questions that had ever been submitted to the consideration of that House, that question being whether the poor of the kingdom should have those rights restored to them which had been wrested from them by the Act passed for the amendment of the Poor-laws in 1834. In that question was comprised a second, and that was whether this Act should be continued until the poor were roused to rebellion, and until such a state of things was brought about that there would be no security for either life or property in this country. What were the abuses of the old system? Payment of wages out of rates, and increase of taxes thereby. But what caused this? Taxation! In 1795 it was proved by Mr. Davies, a clergyman of Berkshire, that a reduction of no less than fifty per cent. had taken place in the wages of agricultural labourers; that in the fourteenth and
 1363 minimum 1364 l.; l.; l.; l., l. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. s. d d. 1365 s. d. s. d. Hear, hear! 1366 1367 1368 The Times 1369
 Mr. R. Palmer  said, he was inclined to adhere to the forms of the House. He, however, joined in the recommendation to withdraw the document for the present.
 Mr. Hodges  said, that he was one of
 1399 1400
 Mr. Wakley , in seconding the motion, expressed the great satisfaction he felt at the statements which had been made by the hon. Member for Oldham, who had completely developed the injurious working of the bill. At the same time, he did not consider it at all necessary to go into details for the purpose of sustaining the motion with which he concluded. It appeared to him, that the law was so objectionable in principle, so tyrannical in its enactments, so obnoxious to the habits of the people, and so hostile to the spirit of the English constitution, that it should never have been sanctioned by that House, and ought not any longer to continue on the statute-book. The motion of the hon. Member was recommended by its simplicity. It proposed no bit-and-bit reform; it went at once to the root of the evil, and sought entirely to eradicate the mischief. He believed this act never would give satisfaction to the people of this country. In the whole of its arrangements, in the whole of its spirit, in its entire mechanical discipline, it was utterly hostile to the best wishes and feelings of the people. They were told of the benefits it had produced on the one side, and the mischief's it had occasioned on the other. It was, then, a matter of conflicting testimony; but, admitting that all the advantages described had emanated from it, he was prepared to contend equal advantages would have resulted without the introduction of such a law, and it was upon that ground he would discuss the principle, without thinking it necessary to go into minute details. According to the testimony of Mr. Gray, one of the guardians of the Chichester union, who had been examined before the Committee, it appeared that the rates in 1832 amounted to 6,399 l., l; 1370 1371 1. 1372 1373
 Sir R. Peel  was not about to enter into the consideration of the question, but he felt bound to state how and upon what grounds he intended to vote. He intended to give a direct negative to the proposition of the hon. Member for Oldham, and he could not consent to vote for the proposition just made to the House by the hon. and learned Gentleman on his left, namely, that this question should not be put, and that Parliament should express no opinion on it. When he recollected that four years since there was an universal impression on the part of Parliament and on the part of the country that the mode of administering relief then in existence was pregnant with the most injurious consequences, that it was, in point of fact, destroying property, and that, in the destruction of property, they were doing most irreparable injury to the poor, inasmuch as it was not merely property itself that was injured, but that, by the mode of its appropriation they were relaxing all the springs of industry, and holding out a temptation to idleness; when he recollected that Parliament, with the universal consent of the country, had determined to make a great experiment for the purpose of recovering the country from that state of things, he thought it would not now be either fair or candid on the part of Parliament to refuse to pronounce an opinion as to whether that experiment should be adhered to or not. He did believe that the hon. Gentleman who had made the first proposition, in com-
 1411 1412
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that if the parties to the document were not aware that they were departing from the rules of the House, there might be some ground of excuse, but as that did not appear, it would be better, in his opinion, to adhere to the usual forms.
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, that he had looked at the document, and found that it contained no prayer at all. It was simply a remonstrance against the Poor-law Act, and did not conclude with any prayer. If it prayed the repeal of that Act, then the House might take cognizance of it; not being so, he thought it ought not to be received.
 Mr. Clay  should not have troubled the House on the present occasion, although he was opposed to the motion, if it had not been that in connexion with this subject there had been publicly attributed to him certain sentiments which he had never uttered, and opinions that he had never entertained. He alluded to what had taken place recently at a meeting held in his own district with reference to the distressed Spitalfields weavers. He begged now to disclaim the sentiments then publicly attributed to him, and to declare most solemnly and emphatically (and he trusted that declaration might reach the ears of those in whose presence the statement was made) that if there was any feeling in reference to legislation—if there was any object to which he was willing to devote every energy both of body and mind, that feeling and that object was to raise the moral and physical condition of the humbler classes of his fellow-countrymen. He believed those sentiments animated the majority of the House, and that though hon. Members might differ as to the best mode of effecting that object, yet all desired to attain it, and he must take this occasion to say, that he left the responsibility of such a contrary course upon the heads of those who, within and without the walls of the House, endeavoured to convince the people that the state and condition of the humbler classes was not at all times of deep and vital interest to Members on both sides of this House. In common with the noble Lord below him (Lord Howick), he was bound to express his admiration of the honesty of purpose which had induced the hon. Member for Oldham to bring this question distinctly forward for the decision of the House. The hon. Member had evidently no second purpose, and he (Mr. Clay) was delighted, that after all the violent language which had been used out of doors by individuals and by some portions of the public press, actuated no doubt by conscientious views, but who had laboured to influence the opinions of the people of England on the subject of the new Poor-laws—he was delighted that the question had been so calmly brought to the test of a decision of the newly assembled Parliament, and that it might thus be ascertained what proportion of the representatives were to be prepared to say, that the New Poor law should be repealed. But to the motion which bad been brought forward by the
 1394 1395 l. 1396
 Viscount Howick : I am very glad Sir, that the hon. Member for Oldham has brought this question before the House fairly and simply,—I am glad, Sir, because
 1374 Wakley: 1375 1376 1377 1378 1379 Fielden: 1380 1381 ex parte 1382 Fielden: Fielden: 1383 1384 l. 1385 1386 l. s. s., s., s. s. d. s. s. s., s. s. s. 1387 1388 1389
 Mr. O'Connell  had been instructed by his constituents to watch only one part of the measure, that part which affected the manufacturing interests of Dublin, connected especially with the banks of the Liffey. With this exception he supported the Bill.
 Sir G. Strickland , in seconding the motion, expressed his entire concurrence in what had been stated by his hon. Friend. Let hon. Members recollect, that when Gilbert's Act was passed and brought into operation, it was admitted on all hands that it worked well, and that it would be a public benefit to have the management of the whole poor placed under that act, Now, however, it appeared to be the wish to swamp that act, and to throw the whole authority in the management of the poor into the hands of the Poor-law Commissioners. He would support the proposed inquiry, because he believed it would have the effect of allaying the excitement which now existed in the country on this subject.
 Sir G. Strickland  thought it extremely desirable, that the hon. Gentleman should be allowed to bring in his bill without having every Member putting questions
 40
 Mr. O'Connell  felt called on to say, as a matter of justice, that in no country was the Sabbath more decently observed than in England. If there were any trading not justified by charity or necessity, it would be well to prevent it; but in any attempts at legislation they ought not to calumniate this country by suggesting any thing against their due observance of the Sabbath.
 Sir George Strickland  thought, that the House ought to be allowed an opportunity of discussing some less objectionable mode than the ballot of preventing the evil of intimidation. He should, therefore, support the motion for leave to bring in the Bill.
 Mr. Jervis  was altogether hostile to the proposition. To correct the evil complained of, the tribunal proposed to be erected by this Bill was the worst that could possibly be devised. Two magistrates, with a jury of farmers! These were the parties to determine whether any intimidation had been practised by landlords. The noble Lord had endeavoured to draw an analogy between intimidation and bribery. There was no analogy between the two. Bribery was a positive act, and consequently open to detection; whereas intimidation might be practised
 44
 Mr. Forbes  suggested, that the bill should have a clause introduced to protect voters from intimidation by blows. In his opinion, that kind of intimidation was a very effective one, and the bill would be useless without it. He should not oppose the motion if it came to a division.
 Colonel Conolly  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the protection of the Salmon Fisheries in Ireland: it had been adopted by the unanimous advice and suggestion of the farmers and proprietors of the fisheries, who had met in Dublin on the subject, and who deplored the insufficient protection furnished by the present system. This insufficiency arose from the 17th clause of the Act 4 George 4th, which prohibited the interference of the police in all matters relating to the fisheries. The object of his Bill was to enable the police to take into custody all the persons who were fined for offences against the fisheries, and to detain them in custody till the fines were paid. He believed he did not mistake the law when he said, that in England and in Scotland no man was released from custody till his fine was
 14
 Mr. Scarlett  admitted, that intimidation was odious. He was disposed to think, however, that hon. Gentlemen drew on their imagination too largely with respect to the intimidation of voters. He had some experience in elections, and he found that the more attempts were made to intimidate the voter the less they succeeded. In order to make the voter perfectly independent, a higher qualification ought to be exacted.
 Mr. W. Duncombe  seconded the motion, and said that the general voice of the country demanded some measure of this kind, which he hoped would be passed before the session closed.
 Lord George Bentinck  thought, the nostrum proposed in this bill so nauseous and inefficient that the time of the House ought not to be wasted in going into a second discussion. He should therefore vote against its introduction.
 Lord J. Russell  did not understand that the motion would impose any newground of inquiry on the Poor-law Commissioners, and he would not, therefore, offer any objection to it. The Committee would have to consider the working of the law under Gilbert's Act, but he did not think that it would go into the inquiry whether the statements of the Poor-law Commissioners were correct or not. He would not at that time enter into the merits of Gilbert's Act. He would admit, that at the time it was passed it was an improvement on the law as it then stood, but abuses had crept in under it, which the New Poor-law would serve to correct. If the advocates of the Gilbert Act could show that it was better, he had no objection to hear them.
 Lord John Russell  felt, that what had passed that evening proved what he had stated the other night, that if any other remedy than that then submitted were proposed, the greatest discontent would be expressed with regard to it, and every proof would be given that there was only one efficient remedy for the evils complained of. He would not deny, that there was a great deal of truth in what his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, had said. He readily believed, that it could not be shown that intimidation was used beforehand, and yet that the voter suffered a penalty consequent on the discovery that he exercised his franchise contrary to the wish of those who possessed control over his acts. At the same time he owned he was disposed to attach some value to the declarations of Parliament on this subject. Much the same objection might be urged with respect to bribery. Supposing that a person was ready to offer a bribe, and a voter to give his vote to the highest bidder for it; if this transaction were conducted secretly, it would be extremely difficult by any law or penalty to prevent this act of bribery. Yet, if no laws existed against bribery, it would prevail to a far greater extent than
 43
 Mr. Chisholm  reminded the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that so far from the inhabitants of this country considering it a calumny to impute to them a desire to legislate with regard to the Sabbath, they proved their wish to do so by the numerous petitions presented on this subject.
 Mr. Hawes  was of opinion, that instead of attempting to put down intimidation by penalties, they should give the voter the privilege by allowing him to conceal his vote, of acting as he thought fit. He was not averse to a remedy for intimidation; but instead of this being a bill to put down intimidation, it was a bill to promote vexatious informations.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was satisfied that no efficient remedy could be applied to prevent the evil, unless a curb were put upon
 45
 Sir George Sinclair  should certainly oppose the introduction of the bill, because he thought nothing so likely to countenance and increase the evil as the adoption of an insufficient and futile remedy.
 Mr. Rich  rose to address the House with considerable diffidence, but he trusted the House would extend its indulgence towards one who addressed them for the first time. He was induced to take a part in the debate on this subject from the deep interest which he took in the question, but he had no connexion with the Commission whose conduct had been found fault with by the hon. Gentleman, nor had he any connexion whatever with Baron de Bode. Since the year 1833, 250 persons had proved their claims for compensation, and had not yet received the sums awarded them; and in addition to these, there were 530 other claims, some of which went back to 1820; and if the present motion were acceded to, all these would still be kept out of their just dues. He would not attempt to follow the hon. Gentleman through the long history of the case which he had detailed to the House. With a major part of it, he was inclined to agree as to the historical facts, subject, however, to one or two remarks, which he had to make. In the first place, with reference to the harshness with which the hon. Gentleman
 25 26 27 28 l.
 Mr. Warburton  did not state any thing affecting the character of the Gentleman who did not produce the documents referred to; the answer given was most likely the fact—viz., that they could not be found. The Commissioners sent the award to the Privy Council, and the Privy Council confirmed it, but on totally different grounds from those upon which the award had been made. The Commissioners in their award expressed a doubt that the cession made by the Baron's father of his property in 1791 had taken place, while the Privy Council in their award admitted the fact, but drew this inference from it, that it was a collusive transaction between father and son, with a view to impose on the French Government. They, therefore, admitted the fact of the cession having been made, which the Commissioners disputed. The Privy Council having also rejected this unfortunate nobleman's claims, he again petitioned them to be heard in 1826, but they stated that under the act they had no power to re-open the case. In the same year, there were several petitions presented to that House on the subject. Petitions were also presented in 1827 by Mr. Littleton, in 1828 by Lord Stanley, upon which occasion a long debate ensued, during which the Baron's claims were supported by very high authorities; in 1833 by Mr. Hill, for a Committee, but without effect; and in 1834 by the same Gentleman, when he was successful. In 1835, Mr. Gisborne made a motion for a revival of the Committee, but unsuccessfully. Now it was said, that the award had been on the grounds upon which the Baron supported his claim; that claim rested upon the fourth additional article of the treaty of 1814, the only conditions to be found in which were, that the claimant must have been a subject of his Britannic Majesty, and that the property for which he sought value must have been unduly confiscated by France subsequent to the 1st of January, 1793. They then came to the Convention of 1815. In the fifth of the seven articles then made, re-
 22 23 l. l. 24 l.
 Mr. Warburton  explained, that the tampering with justice of which he complained was the withdrawal of the documents by the Commissioners.
 Mr. Warburton  rose to call the attention of the House to the case of the Baron de Bode. A Committee of the House was appointed in 1834 to take the case of the claimant into consideration, but as it was necessary to send to France for further evidence, the session terminated before the inquiry was completed. The Committee consequently were not enabled to make any report, but they laid the evidence which they had taken before the House, accompanied by a recommendation that the Committee should be revived early in the next session. That recommendation, however, had never been acted upon, and it was his intention to move that a Select Committee be appointed for the purpose of reconsidering this question. In consequence of the recommendation of the Committee, a sum had been expended by the unfortunate claimant of not much less than 3,000 l. 16 17 18 19 20
 Mr. Warburton  said, that when the ballot was under discussion the other evening, the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had used intelligible arguments against it, to which he was willing to accede the commendation of sincerity. But when the hon. Gentleman proposed a bill to prevent, by penalties the practice of intimidation, he looked upon it to be just as impossible a problem in politics or morals as the squaring a circle in geometry, or perpetual motion in mechanics. When a person now voted contrary to the wish of his customer was he told the reason why that custom was withdrawn? When no reason was alleged, now that no penalty existed, was it likely that there would be, when it was made a penal offence. Such a measure was a mockery of legislation.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that if they were to legislate on this subject they ought to do so in an impartial spirit. The rich could go to the country on Sundays to see their friends without hiring and conveyance, having their own carriages to convey them. But if trading were altogether prevented on the Sabbath they would shut out from the middling and poorer classes an opportunity of taking part in those amusements which were absolutely necessary to their health. The bill of Sir A. Agnew was partial in its nature and deserved to fail. He had no objection to allow the hon. Gentleman to bring in his bill, and give him an opportunity of explaining his intentions.
 Mr. Plumptre  rose for leave to bring in a bill for the suppression of trading on the Lord's Day, commonly called Sunday. The subject had been so frequently before the House he should not trouble it by entering into any details although he was prepared to do so if it were desired.
 Mr. Brotherton  hoped, that the hon. Gentleman would be allowed to bring in the bill. He thought that the mere circumstance of such a measure being introduced and discussed by the House might possibly have so great a moral influence in the country as to prevent the necessity of resorting to the ballot.
 Mr. Brotherton  supported the motion. He was sure that the payments under the present system were greater than at any former period. He spoke from experience for he was intimately acquainted with the management of the poor at Salford.
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask his hon. Friend one question. Suppose a steward were to attend an election (which they had too good reason to suspect was the case at the late elections), for the purpose of influencing by his presence the vote of the elector, was he to be considered liable to the penalties of the Act?
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had attempted to mislead the House. The motion of his hon. Friend, the Member for Bridport, was not for a vote of the public money, but for a Committee of inquiry, with a view to ascertain whether the claims of the Baron de Bode were legitimate and just. The French Government had deposited in the hands of the Government of this country 7,000,000f. for the benefit of those who should succeed in substantiating their claims, and the House ought not, therefore, by a technicality, to shut the Baron de Bode out from the opportunity of establishing his claim. That was the sole question before the House. He did not mean to defend any of the acts or conduct of the Baron, which had been mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, but the House should recollect that the Government was only trustee of the money.
 Mr. P. Howard  thought, that no measure on this subject which did not emanate from the Government, or which was not founded on the report of the Intimidation Committee, would be well received by the House. He should therefore be inclined, if he were supported by the House, to resist the introduction of this Bill.
 Mr. P. Howard  hoped that the bill would be adapted to the present state of society, and not attempt unnecessarily to interfere with the liberty of the subject.
 Mr. Slaney  moved for leave to bring in a bill to prevent threat or attempts at intimidation to voters to influence their votes for Members of Parliament. As to the necessity of some measure on this subject all seemed to agree. The intimidation Committee had shown, that there was not a single part of England which did not afford evidence of the necessity of devising some mode for the protection of the voter in the honest exercise of the franchise. Many of his friends thought that the protection of the ballot would ensure that object; but he had lately by his vote proved that he could not in his conscience sanction that opinion. He was persuaded, however, of the necessity of checking that intimidation which was known to prevail so widely. An extensive alteration as to
 41 l. l.
 Mr. Slaney  begged that his hon. Friend would allow him to introduce his Bill, and see how far the phraseology met the object which he contemplated.
 Mr. T. Duncombe  felt bound to state, that in making a motion to give an instruction to the Poor-law Committee he had two distinct objects in view—in the first place, to ascertain whether the system of the new Poor-law unions is superior to the system adopted under Gilbert's Act; and, secondly, in order that the individual guardians under Gilbert's Act should have a public opportunity of rebutting the charges and accusations that have been made against them by the Poor-law Commissioners in their third Report, merely, as it appeared to him, for the purpose of inducing the House to give their consent, that additional powers should be vested in the Commissioners for dissolving unions, without the consent of those guardians who objected to any alteration until they should be perfectly satisfied that a better, a more economical, and a more humane system could be substituted in lieu of the present system. There were several amusing passages in the third Report of the Commissioners, which at an earlier hour he would have felt it his duty to read; but there were other parts which caused a very great sensation in the West Riding of Yorkshire, the whole of which was at this moment incorporated in unions under Gilbert's Act. There were about 150 townships thus incorporated, and the Poor-law Commissioners wished the House to give them additional powers to dissolve these unions, without the consent of the guardians. The reasons why they stated they wished for these powers were, that the guardians, in the administration not only of relief, but in their own conduct, had been extremely corrupt, and that the system itself was vicious. But they were not satisfied with attributing dishonest motives to the guardians, but they wished the House to believe, that these indi-
 36 l. l. l. "At the last meeting of the, board of the Oswestry incorporation, when the directors again refused to dissolve, a butcher of the town was in the chair, who was himself supplying the house with meat, and the resolution was carried with every magistrate in the room voting against it. At the Montgomery and Pool union, at the largest meeting ever known there, the lord-lieutenant of the county was in the chair, himself owning one-fifth of the property in the incorporation, and strongly advocating the propriety of its dissolution, though he himself brought in the Act under which it was constituted. Six out of eight of the magistrates present voted on the same side, and nearly all the holders of the property affected, in the room; nevertheless the dissentients carried their point by a majority of eighty-four to thirty-six. Yet this was in direct op-
 37 l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that after the numerous discussions which had taken place on this question, it would not be necessary for him to trespass long on the attention of the House. There never was a more extraordinary case than the present, nor, he would add, a claim more unfounded in point of either law or justice. The claim was originally made in 1816, and was first admitted in 1819. The Baron de Bode was then called on to support it with evidence, but, not being prepared to do so, time was given him to collect the necessary proofs. The Commissioners even suggested the nature of the evidence which was required. What the Commissioners had done in order to afford facilities to Baron de Bode to perfect the evidence on which his case rested, and all the careful considerations that they had bestowed upon his case, was made by him a ground of complaint against the Commissioners, and a foundation upon which to rest a charge of bad faith against them. He had applied for additional time to put in evidence, which had been granted him, but he was certainly refused to be allowed to bring forward additional evidence at a time when to do so would have been at variance with all notions of law and practice. An award was given against him in May, 1822. He had, after failing in other respects, brought his case before the Privy Council, the highest tribunal of
 29 30 31 l. 32
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could only say, that the letter which he had read was not prepared with a view to its being brought to bear upon the present debate. It was dated as far back as the 6th of November, 1836, when the matter was recent and fresh in Mr. Finlaison's mind. Upon receiving the Baron's letter, he sent it to Mr. Finlaison, who sent in answer the letter which he had read. In order, however, that there might be no difficulty about the matter, or mistake about the nature of the Baron de Bode's
 34
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that resistance to the introduction of a bill was not only unusual, but in this instance, he thought, unjustifiable. He thought the proposition a very reasonable one for the House to entertain. The evil of intimidation was admitted on all hands: therefore it became the duty of the House to inquire whether some practical remedy could not be devised. If the provisions of the Bill now proposed should appear not to afford a practical remedy, it might be rejected upon the second reading. If the House refused to entertain the Bill at all, it must rest its resistance to it upon one of two grounds—either that it did not believe the existence of the evil, or else that there was no remedy for the evil except the ballot. He was not prepared to declare in the affirmative of either of these propositions. If the House rejected the motion for the introduction of the Bill, the natural inference would be, that it did not wish to prevent intimidation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was extremely happy to hear this explanation, but he could assure the hon. Gentleman that neither from him nor any one else would he submit in the face of the House of Commons to imputations of that description. With respect to the more general question respecting the accounts of the Commissioners, and the statement of balance unappropriated if the hon. Gentleman's object was a Committee, he had no objection; he would second the motion, but he must remind the hon. Gentleman that the step would not now be taken for the first time. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by cautioning the House against allowing itself to be induced by the distribution of pamphlets, or to be influenced, by private solicitations, in voting away the public money. If they permitted the jobbing and artifice which had too frequently mixed in the private business of the House to be transferred to votes of the public money, it was utterly in vain to expect that the financial business of the country could be rightly conducted. If hon. Gentlemen thought proper to vote away 300,000 l. 33
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged
 21
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would throw no difficulty in the way of the hon. Member, and he was exceedingly glad to find the subject brought forward. Not only was it necessary to remedy some of the evils at the upper part of the rivers, but also the destruction at their mouths. Like the hon. Member he was personally interested in the question, and
 15
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the agreement was not confined to the petitioner now before the House, but was required to be signed by every one of the claimants; and with regard to the authority of the commissioners in that respect, it was expressly given to them by the Treasury Minister.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had to set the House right upon some points in respect to which the hon. Gentleman opposite was incorrect or had been misinformed. He must, however,
 10 l. l. 11
 Mr. Gillon  considered, that the suggestions of the noble Lord with respect to a resolution of that House would be of no avail. The resolutions that were passed every Session were quite farcical. In spite of the resolutions of that House it was now scarcely attempted to be disguised that Peers interfered in the elections of Members of Parliament.
 Mr. Mackinnon  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice relative to the claims of Mr. D'Arcy Talbot on the French Compensation Fund. This was by no means a question of a political nature, and the only object he had in view in bringing it forward was to obtain justice for the individual in question. As several hon. Members now present were not in the House when he brought the subject forward last Session, he should endeavour, in a few words, to state the claims which Mr. D'Arcy Talbot had put upon the consideration of the House. In 1793, the French Government had confiscated all the British property in France, and in 1815, in pursuance of a treaty, it was stipulated that the claims of British subjects which could be substantiated, should be compensated. For that purpose a certain number of commissioners were named in Paris and London, to take the matter into consideration, and at a subsequent period it was deemed advisable that a sum of money should be granted for the purpose of liquidating these claims. In consequence of circumstances, which it was unnecessary now to refer to, Mr. Talbot was unable to bring forward evidence in support of his claims before the commissioners. At a subsequent period, another board of commissioners was appointed to take into consideration all the claims which, upon technical objections, had not been considered by the former board. To these commissioners Mr. Talbot applied, and he was told they would not take his claim into consideration, unless he signed an agreement to the effect that he would be satisfied with their award. At first he declined acceding to this proposal, but being driven by the exigencies of the case, he was obliged to accede to their demands, and sign the paper. When they got his signature they pretended to take his case into consideration, and paid to Mr. Talbot, not the principal of the amount to which he was entitled, but simply the interest. Now, he (Mr. Mackinnon) would submit to the House, that if Mr. Talbot was entitled to the interest of the demand, he
 9 l. l. Chancellor of the Exchequer. l. l.
 Mr. W. Roche  thought, that this was a most important measure for Ireland, and he was glad that it had been brought forward by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Praed  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had offered no explanation of the extraordinary decision of the commissioners, that Mr. D'Arcy Talbot was entitled to the interest upon the amount of his claim, but not the principal. The money had been paid by the French Government to meet these claims, and, when the party now before the House had been first heard, it was under circumstances which made it impossible for him to bring forward that evidence upon which he now
 12
 Mr. Hall  was glad that this motion was brought forward. In the parishes of St. Pancras and Marylebone which he represented, they were governed in the administration of the poor by a local act, and it worked well, and the parishioners were determined to oppose, by every means, the introduction of any other system.
 Mr. Hall  wished to know whether the bill which the hon. Member proposed to bring in was specifically confined to trading; and he gave notice that if it extended to interfere with the recreations and amusements of the people, which in large towns particularly were so essential to the happiness and health of the community, he should give the bill his most decided opposition.
 Captain Pechell  said, that before he could consent to the introduction of the bill he wished distinctly to know whether it would interfere in any way with the fisheries or the fish-market. He also wished to know whether there would be any interference with the sailors on the sailing and arrival of her Majesty's ships? If these questions were answered to his satisfaction, he should have no objection to the circulation of the bill through the country.
 Captain Pechell  said, that he was connected with an union of nineteen parishes in Sussex, which was governed by a local act. The Poor-law Commissioners wished to have the power of dissolving that union, but he thought that was a power which should not be given to them, but be reserved to the Legislature itself. With respect to the reports of the Commissioners, he must say, that in many instances they were most unfair. The guardians under the local act were charged with corruption. That charge he declared to be unfounded. They never derived any personal benefit from their exertions. The proposed inquiry would, he thought, be most useful in its
 39
 Mr. Ward  considered the statement of the hon. Gentleman as unfair and partial; and he should support the Baron de Bode's claim, as a most just and long delayed demand upon a fund, the appropriation of which had not been satisfactorily made out, and required justification.
 Mr. Ward  wished to be permitted to say a few words in explanation. He had never seen either the letters of Mr. Finlaison or the Baron de Bode. He had taken his views of the matter from a high legal authority, who was the person described as having been formerly engaged as counsel in the cause, and with whom he believed the learned Solicitor-General was acquainted. He alluded to Mr. Langslow, to whom Mr. Finlaison had admitted, that he (Mr. Finlaison) had held with the Baron de Bode a conversation very much to the purport stated in the Baron's letter—namely, that he had estimated the reversionary interest at 300,000 l.
 The Attorney-General  thought, that the hon. Member for Shrewsbury would be very hardly dealt by if he were not allowed to bring in the bill. When the hon. Member rose to propose it there was a general cry of "move, move!" from all sides of the House, from which the natural inference to be drawn was, that the House was disposed to receive the proposition by general acclamation. It was not until the hon. Gentleman, at the request of the hon. Member for Bridport, had given a very brief outline of his plan, that any opposition was manifested. He did not think this a right course of proceeding. He by no means pledged himself to sup-
 46
 Sir William Molesworth  said, that as it had been supposed he was not serious in his intention to bring on the motion of which he had given notice for the 6th of March, he begged to state that he was determined to
 47
 Viscount Morpeth  would not offer any opposition to the motion. Some legislation was required for the Scotch fisheries, and it was but reasonable that the Irish salmon fisheries should receive equal consideration. He was glad to perceive, that the hon. Member did not propose to repeal the provision which prevented the police from acting as gamekeepers or fishkeepers, or servants to the proprietors, and that it only provided, that offenders should be kept in custody after conviction. The whole question of maritime aggression was a subject of considerable difficulty: he would not then pronounce an opinion upon it, but the question might be brought under the consideration of the House when the Bill was in Committee, and he should be happy to hear what was the opinion of the House and of the country upon it.
 Sir G. De Lacy  Evans again rose, but was prevented from addressing the House by loud cries of "Chair!"
 Mr. O'Connell : Sir, I am exceedingly obliged to the noble Lord for giving this publicity to the sentiments I entertain on the subject of Committees of a particular description in this House. Sir, I did say every word of that—every word of that; and I do repeat, that I believe it to be perfectly true. Is there a man who will put his hand upon his heart and say upon his honour as a gentleman, that he does not believe that that is substantially true. Such a man would be laughed to scorn. It is a hideous abuse. The public press has taunted you with it. The last time I addressed the House upon the subject, I read a paragraph out of the  Morning Chronicle
 Sir W. Brabazon  objected strongly to the Bill, and urged the Government to withdraw it if they did not wish to lay the foundation of revolutionary feelings in Ireland. The Bill itself was nothing but a tissue of absurdities.
 Mr. O'Connell  would ask, if they did not give a law of settlement in Ireland, how they could expect tranquillity? One man might administer his estate to the benefit of the population on it, while his neighbour might pursue such a course as to pauperise his estate; would it not be an act of injustice to throw the charge of the poor of the latter estate on the owner of the former? For instance, he might take the case of the gallant Member for Donegal, who managed his estate in such a way as to benefit the whole of the population on the estate, while, according to the report of Mr. Nicholls, there was a large property in his neighbourhood, the charge of the maintenance of the poor on which would more than swallow the rental. He felt it to be a matter of duty, although it was with great reluctance, to support the amendment of the hon. Member for Monaghan. If that Bill were given to Ireland, he thought that it was absolutely necessary that it should be accompanied with settlement and the right of relief.
 Mr. Walker  trusted, that the Government would not yield one iota of the Bill to the opposition given by those who were averse to its principle, and who now sought to attack it in detail. It would appear from what had come out in the course of the discussion that the Bill seemed to be considered a measure for the improvement of property rather than for the relief of the poor. He would oppose the amendment, and hoped that the Government would adhere to the principle of the measure.
 Mr. O'Connell  was afraid that the bill, as it at present stood, would give great dissatisfaction both to the rate-payers and rate-receivers, and under these circumstances the measure would be the worst species of medicine that could be administered to Ireland. The hon. Member for Limerick did not intend by his motion to make it imperative on the guardians to give out-door relief, but his object was to empower them, with the assent of the Commissioners, to exercise their discretion towards objects of real distress. The noble Lord (Morpeth) admitted, that on an average, one in each family in Ireland was an invalid, but by this bill that one could not receive relief except all the family went into the workhouse. He hoped the House would accede to the motion of his hon. Friend, as out-door relief would tend to smooth and soften down the harshness of the measure, which, though called a provision for the poor, did not possess a single feature of charity. If a Poor-law bill were granted, let it be sufficiently expansive to meet the exigences of pauperism.
 Sir T. Acland  bore testimony to the manner (as we understood) in which the Cork House of Industry was conducted.
 Mr. O'Connell  contended, that the suggestion of the learned Sergeant might apply to Sunday, but that on every day religious instruction might be beneficially afforded. The appointment, therefore,
 81
 Mr. O'Connell  was desirous to make one suggestion; it was this, that the salary should be left altogether at the disposal of the commissioners, who would be thus invested with a sufficient controlling power, it being left discretionary to withhold or stop the allowance.
 Lord J. Russell  saw very considerable difficulty in this clause. His noble Friend (Lord Clements) had suggested that chaplains should be appointed by the ecclesiastical authorities. That proposition seemed to provide for the proper attendance of persons of each religious persuasion. At the same time, if it was adopted, he could conceive a case in which persons would be appointed not disposed to work out the objects of this measure. When persons, too, were nominated by different ecclesiastical authorities, there was a danger of that harmony being interrupted which was so essential. He was not disposed, therefore, to agree to the proposition without giving the Commissioners a voice in the matter, either by way of approval, or that they should possess the power of appointment, subject to the approval of the ecclesiastical authorities. He should, therefore, propose to postpone the clause with the view of framing it in such a manner as to meet with general concurrence.
 Lord J. Russell  did not think, that it would be expedient, under the present circumstances, to adopt a law of settlement in Ireland. He would put the case of a person in a county removed from the place of his settlement. He would be told in case of destitution—"You have no settlement in this county, therefore you are not entitled to relief."
 69
 Lord John Russell  said, Sir, I beg to give notice that, if this complaint be entertained by the House, on Monday next, I mean to bring forward for the consideration of this House the charge of the right rev. Prelate, the Bishop of Exeter, respecting an allegation of perjury on the part of certain Members of this House.
 Lord John Russell  thought, after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman in the chair that this conversation ought not to proceed; and he was certain that if his hon. and gallant Friend perceived that it was for the advantage of the House that he should make a sacrifice of his own personal feelings by foregoing any further expression of them, he would readily do so.
 Mr. D. Callaghan  had some experience of the working of the House of Industry at Cork, and he did not believe, that it was at all effective in reducing the amount of destitution. The principal objects of support in that house were the persons who from long residence became domiciliated
 79
 Mr. Maclean  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether, subsequently to the correspondence laid on the table of the House with regard to the affair of the Vixen, other correspondence had not taken place between himself and Mr. Bell, as well as the authorities of St. Peters-burgh and Constantinople? If so, whether he would have any objection to place that correspondence likewise on the table of the House? He had also another question to put to the noble Lord. He had received information of an outrage having been committed in the passage of the Dardanelles upon a certain merchant vessel, and he wished to know whether any such communication had been received by the noble Lord and which he (Mr. Maclean) understood had been made to the authorities at Constantinople? The hon. and learned Gentleman then read an extract of a communication which he had received from the agent employed by the merchants, to the effect, that a merchant vessel recently arrived at Liverpool was twice fired at by a Russian brig of war, under the supposition that it was a corsair. But the merchant vessel having passed above the castle, in the channel where she must have shown her papers, there could be no shadow of excuse for firing on her in pretence that she was a corsair. It was also stated, that a protest had subsequently been made against this proceeding, and he wished to know from the noble Lord whether these statements were true or not?
 Mr. Maclean : Then the noble Lord has not received any communication that these ships were fired on with shot?
 Mr. Litton  thought, that there might be a law of settlement provided for Ireland that would be simple in its enactments and beneficial in its tendency. The three simple principles which he should require, would be residence of three years, birth, or marriage. If there were no law of settlement the value of property would often be swamped by the pauper population moving upon an estate from neighbouring pauperised districts. He thought, that for the satisfactory working of the Bill, there should be some law of settlement.
 Mr. Lucas  rose to move, that certain words be inserted therein, by which he intended to raise the question of settlement. He did not, however, think, that it was a question which could be fitly considered in Committee. He thought that a question of such importance, one that if admitted, would alter the whole frame of the Bill, ought to have been discussed in the House itself, and not only was that his opinion, but it was the opinion of the House last year, when on his bringing forward this question in a Committee of the whole House, a very decided opinion was expressed by the Committee that it was a subject which did not come within the scope of their jurisdiction, and that it ought to receive the consideration of the whole House, and it was accordingly discussed by the whole House at a subsequent stage of the Bill. Nevertheless, as an objection had been taken to this proceeding, he would defer to the opinion which had been expressed, and he would now bring forward this question, which, in his opinion, was of as great importance as any which could be brought under the consideration of the House in connexion with this Bill. He must confess that it was neither agreeable nor encouraging to
 62 63 64 65 l. 66 67 l.
 Sir E. Sugden  thought, that the unions could be preserved and maintained by a
 68
 Mr. French  opposed the amendment. Its effect would be, to open the question of settlements altogether, and he believed, that settlements if introduced, would be not only useless, but dangerous, in their effects, and would introduce all the evils and complications which had been produced by the English law, and law expenses to a great amount would be in consequence incurred. The law of settlement besides was by no means necessary to a compulsory system of relief. With regard to the argument on the point of the emigration of the paupers from the poor to the wealthy districts, he conceived it would not apply; for the same system of rating would be put in operation throughout the country, and they would be as well cared for in one county as in another, and consequently would have no interest in moving their position.
 Mr. Shaw  could not agree to the amendment, as out-door relief would, in his opinion be an abandonment of the spirit of the bill. The permission to give out-door relief would also have a tendency to dry up the sources of private charity.
 Mr. Shaw  said, weighing the good against the evil, and striking the balance, he thought the better course would be, to dispense with the law of settlement. He was of opinion that his hon. Friend had failed in showing that the adoption of the law of settlement would afford a security against the apprehended evil of an inundation of paupers. He decidedly objected to allocating the poor. It was felt by his hon. Friends that it would be impracticable if they had the law of settlement to send the paupers home to their distant parishes; and it was therefore proposed that they should be maintained in the parish to which they applied for relief, but at the cost of the parish to which they belonged. Thus there was to be a debtor and creditor account kept between these several parishes. It appeared to him that such a system would lead to great confusion, and almost interminable litigation. There was another ground of objection to the proposition of his hon. Friend. If they had a law of settlement they must give a right to relief, because it would be a gross injustice to oblige a pauper to return to his own neighbourhood, which he had left on account of not being able to procure labour there, and then refuse him relief. As regarded the powers of the commissioners, he would place full confidence in them, and invest them with as much authority as possible. Under these circumstances, feeling that the question was one of great difficulty, he thought the better way would be to dispense with the law of settlement.
 Sir G. De Lacy Evans  said, that as he had had the honour of a communication with the noble Lord at the head of the army, the nature of which was rather incompatible with the questions which had just been put by the hon. Member for Canterbury, he thought, that as this was somewhat a subject of a personal kind to himself, he might be permitted to ask that hon. Member, whether he had any authority from that noble Lord to put those questions?
 Sir G. De Lacy Evans  observed that the right hon. Gentleman had said, that he had the greatest possible confidence in Lord John Hay. So had he; but the right hon. Gentleman had not evinced that confidence by the ardent feeling he had displayed in that House. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that he had received communications respecting the state of the men now remaining at St. Sebastian; and so had he. He knew at least as well as the right hon. Gentleman; nay, he would venture to say a good deal better than the right hon. Baronet, the state of these men. He derived his knowledge from quite as good a source as the right hon. Gentleman. He thought it was rather uncourteous on the part of the right hon. Gentleman to appeal to the name of Lord John Hay without reflecting that it was possible that he was in communication with that noble Lord. The right hon. Gentleman had said the men were in a state of misery and starvation; but he would assert that there was no such thing as starvation amongst them. If there were any difficulty whatever on the part of the Commander-in-Chief at St. Sebastian in supplying the men with provisions, he knew that Lord John Hay was both willing and able to supply them. Although these men had a right to demand permission to return to England in consequence of the non-fulfilment of engagement towards them, yet he had reason to state, from the same authority on which the right hon. Gentleman himself relied, that the men had not been in a worse condition than the troops under his own command. [ Laughter 56
 Mr. Barron  was of opinion, that a prac-
 71
 Sir H. Hardinge : I have to observe I shall never, during the exercise of my Parliamentary duty, think it necessary to regulate my conduct by the opinions of the gallant officer opposite. I beg to remind him and the House that their late commander, Brigadier-General O'Connell, has declared, in his officical order of the day, that the conduct of the Spanish authorities towards the legion was infamous. When the hon. and gallant Officer rises to vindicate them, and the treatment of those men by the Spanish government (and of course it is a vindication when he says that the men are not suffering), I assert that their treatment has been, not only from information I have received, but also from a public document of their officers, and more especially from the official statement of Brigadier-General O'Connell, that their treatment has been of the most infamous description.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that seeing the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, he wished to remind the noble Lord that about two months ago, he put a question to him as to when the remnant of the British Legion at St. Sebastian might be expected home in this country. The noble Lord had then said, that vessels had been sent out in order that those unfortunate men might be brought home as soon as possible. Now he had received information that the men were now still at St. Sebastian, in a state of great misery, destitution, and starvation, and that about 200 of them had been received on board the Columbia, in order to preserve them from actual starvation; that many of the unfortunate men had no trowsers, no shoes, and were altogether in a most deplorable state of destitution. He had also been informed, that in the beginning of January last a serjeant had been found lying dead in the snow with scarcely a rag of clothing on his back. He should
 54
 The Speaker  said that the House must perceive it was not with his concurrence that any additional observations had been made after the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had answered the question put to him; but the hon. and gallant Officer (Sir G. De Lacy Evans) appealing to the House to be heard, the House had extended to him that courtesy; and he (the Speaker) had now to appeal to that hon. and gallant Officer and the House whether it was not fit that this conversation should cease.
 The Speaker : The hon. Gentleman will put his question.
 The Speaker : I wish to make a remark as to the regularity of our proceedings. The hon. and learned Member having answered the question, I must now appeal to the noble Lord to know what motion he intends to make. [Cries of "Move"]
 The Speaker  reminded the noble Lord, that all that remained for him now to do was to give notice of his motion.
 Mr. Bradshaw : Has the appointment passed through the regular channel—that is, through the Horse Guards?
 Mr. Bradshaw  said, that, having seen it gazetted that her Majesty had appointed Colonel
 57
 Mr. Bradshaw  said, he had not any authority from Lord Hill to ask those questions; but he had received communi-
 58
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  felt this whole question to be one of great difficulty. He thought the clause before the House one of the most important in the Bill, and he therefore felt bound to submit his views as to what appeared to him the best mode of carrying out the objects of the Bill. He was surprised at the arguments that had been urged from the other side of the House, but he confessed that he heard no answer to the arguments of his hon. Friend, the Member for Monaghan, and of his hon. Friend, the Member for Coleraine. His hon. Friend, the Member for Donegal, had stated, that a right of relief would exist under the Bill. He (Mr. Jackson) had looked to the clause, and he found no right to relief. Undoubtedly there ought to be a right to relief from the soil of any country to every person incapable of supporting himself. He thought the aged, the infant, and the impotent, were entitled to a right of relief in cases of destitution, and that every principle of religion, and morality, and sound policy, dictated that such relief ought to be granted. He thought, that the right of relief should be confined to those classes he had enumerated, and that concurrent with it they ought by all means to have a law of settlement. Without a law of settlement, the poorer parts of the country would inundate the more wealthy parts, and every large town would become a sort of mendicity house for the surrounding poor. It appeared to him that a law of settlement was absolutely necessary to make the Bill work.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  did not wish to have it go abroad that the workhouse system was one of oppression, as the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Dublin, would have it understood. There were already in Ireland institutions conducted on the same principle. He had that day received a letter from the governor of the House of Industry in Dublin, stating, that the most painful duty which he had to perform was the refusal of the numerous applicants for admission.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  thought, it would be best to strike out the clause, and to allow the inmates of the workhouses to go to the places of worship belonging to each class.
 Mr. P. Scrope  would support the amendment. The evils of out-door relief did not arise from the use but the abuse of that practice. Even those who most strongly advocated the Poor-law and such Bills, were the most anxious to assert that they were not opposed to out-door relief where it could with propriety be given. He should therefore vote for the amendment.
 Mr. Wyse  concurred with the noble Lord who had preceded him, in stating that there was already a practical law of settlement in Ireland, which was observed in all applications made for relief to the different fever hospitals and houses of industry in that country. He thought that that practical law of settlement would be administered with greater discretion by the board of guardians than any new law of settlement which might be introduced under the authority of an Act of Parliament. After the improvements which had been introduced into the Bill of this year, he felt himself bound to vote against the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Monaghan. The greatest improvement in the Bill of this year was, that it was to be simultaneous in its operation in all parts of Ireland. That would prevent the influx of paupers from one district into another, and thus would prevent any district from being burdened beyond its due proportion for their relief.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  rose to propose the addition to the clause of the following proviso;—"That it shall be lawful for the
 74 75 76 77
 Mr. W. Roche  thought, that the law of
 72
 Mr. W. Roche , knowing as he did how much the industry, and energies, and abilities of his hon. Friend, the Member for the county of Limerick (Mr. S. O'Brien) were exerted in favour of Ireland, must naturally feel great regret at being compelled to differ from him upon the present occasion. He must oppose the amendment.
 Sir A. Dalrymple  wished to ask the noble Lord a question with reference to the answer which had just been given to his hon. Friend. He wished to ask whether Sir George De Lacy Evans had been appointed knight commander of the Bath as one of the ten foreign officers who, according to the rules of the institution, were eligible for that honour?
 Sir E. Hayes  said, that those who opposed a law of settlement contended that if it were established, there should be concurrent with it a right of relief. Now, he supported the amendment, because he felt satisfied that a right of relief existed under the Bill. He could see no fair chance of the working of the Bill unless it were accompanied by a law of settlement, and if that were conceded it would materially contribute to the success of the Bill.
 Sir R. Bateson  objected to many parts of the present bill. He could not vote against the amendment of the hon. Member for Limerick, as a resident landlord acquainted with the state of Ireland, interested in its welfare, and possessing the common feelings of humanity. He wished very much that the amendment of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for the University of Dublin, had been carried, as he thought it would be conferring a great boon upon Ireland. As that amendment had, however, been thrown out, they must endeavour to make the bill work as well as they could. The hon. Member for Limerick had alluded to the public meeting which had been held in Belfast. At that meeting he (Sir R. Bateson) had the honour to attend. There were present at it persons of all religious opinions and distinctions, and not one had ventured to speak in favour of the bill as it at present stood. As the noble Lord opposite (Lord Morpeth) did not attach much weight to that meeting, so neither did he (Sir R. Bateson) attach any weight to the flying visit of Mr. Nicholls which was altogether unknown to any one in the town of Belfast. He must
 78
 Lord Clements  proposed an amendment to the effect, that the appointment of chaplains should be in the local ecclesiastical authorities of the several religious establishments respectively, instead of in the Commissioners.
 Lord Clements  thought, that the Bill as it stood at present would give a practical settlement, and also a practical right to relief. He was, therefore, inclined to stand by the Bill as now drawn up, because he thought that they might get rid of the evils complained of without circumscribing in the slightest degree the market of labour. Indeed, there was at present in Ireland a
 70
 Viscount Maidstone : Then, Sir, I give notice that on Monday next I shall call the attention of the House to these articles, and to the conduct of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin.
 Viscount Maidstone  said, Sir, in consequence of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin having owned that he has said
 61
 Viscount Maidstone  said: Seeing the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in his place, I wish to ask him whether some sentiments which I perceive reported as having been delivered by him, in a speech made by him on Wednesday, the 21st of February last, at a dinner at the Crown and Anchor Tavern in the Strand, over which Sir George De Lacy Evans presided, are substantially correct? I will read this paper to the House, and I hope the hon. and learned Member will do me the pleasure of telling me afterwards whether this is substantially a correct report of what he said on that occasion. The following is from  The Morning Chronicle: "Corruption of the worst description existed, and, above all, there was the perjury of the Tory politicians. Ireland was not safe from the English and Scotch gentry. It was horrible to think, that a body of Gentlemen—men who ranked high in society, who were themselves the administrators of the law, and who ought therefore to be above all suspicion, and who ought to set an example to others—was it not horrible that they should be perjuring themselves in the Committees of the
 60 The Morning Post, The Morning Chronicle: "He did not mince the matter—his words might appear in the public press, he hoped they would—Ireland was not safe from the perjury of the English and Scotch gentry, who took oaths according to justice and voted according to party."
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he must give his most direct opposition to the proposition or rather benevolent proviso of the hon. Member for Limerick, thinking as he did that the worst clauses in the English Poor-law Act, and those which tended most to mar its beneficial progress, were those which extended the right of out-door relief. If they once consented to open the door to out-door relief in Ireland, there would be hardly a family in Ireland which would not take advantage of it and throw themselves upon the fund.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, he had got the protest of the two masters of the vessels, which distinctly stated, that the two guns fired were blank.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, it was quite true that since the date of the papers which had been laid on the table with regard to the affair of the Vixen there had been some correspondence between himself and Mr. Bell, and he had no sort of objection to lay it also before the House. With regard to the transaction to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded, be begged to say, that he received two days ago an account which, however, differed in some material respects from the statement which had been made to the hon. and learned Gentleman. It had been stated to him, that two English merchant ships were lying at anchor within the
 59
 Viscount Palmerston : No; he has not.
 Viscount Palmerston : The answer which I have to make to the hon. Gentleman is, that the appointment of Sir George De Lacy Evans to be knight commander of the Bath was made in the usual manner by her Majesty's Government, and upon their own responsibility. The hon. Gentleman is mistaken in supposing that it is at all necessary, or has been the invariable practice, that the exercise of the discretion of the Government in recommending persons to the Crown for that honour should be governed by any recommendation, or, even what is less, by the advice of the person at the head of the army. With regard to the appointment itself, I shall merely say that I humbly venture to think that it was earned and well bestowed.
 Viscount Palmerston : In answer to the right hon. and gallant Officer, I beg to state that some time ago it was represented to her Majesty's Government that a considerable number of the persons serving in the British Legion were anxious to return home. Immediately the Government, at some inconvenience, made an arrangement that a frigate and a transport should be sent out in order to bring home those men, and a certain supply of clothing was put on board in case any of them should be in a state of destitution. They arrived at Passages and remained there some days, but the frigate being wanted for other purposes was ordered away; but the transport still remained there in order to bring home any portion of those men who were ready and willing to return; a few only have accepted the offer, and I presume that the men generally do not like to come away until some settlement has been made with respect to their pay by the Spanish Government. It is perfectly true that I have been informed by Sir George Villiers that the Spanish Government have sent an officer in the Spanish service to St. Sebastian with a certain sum of money to settle the arrears due to these men, and to endeavour to reorganise a portion of the legion. But Lord John Hay has communicated to the Admiralty that he considers himself as having the charge of these men, and that he will take care that they shall have free exercise of their will either to accept or refuse such offers on the part of the
 55
 Mr. O'Connell  submitted that his entire speech should be read. No one ever heard of a legal document being read in part. Morning Chronicle "Mr. O'Connell mounted on the table, and proceeded to address the gentlemen assembled.—He said, that he could assure them, and he said it without the least affectation, that he never in his life felt so overpowered as he did when he first entered the room on that evening. A sensation of awe came over him when he beheld such an assemblage as
 102 103 Corruption of the worst description existed, and, above all, there was the perjury of the Tory politicians. Ireland was not safe from the English and Scotch gentry. It was horrible to think that a body of gentlemen—men who ranked high in society, who were themselves the administrators of the law, and who ought therefore to be above all suspicion, and who ought to set an example to others, was it not horrible that they should be perjuring themselves in the Committees of the House of Commons? The time was come when this should be proclaimed boldly. He was ready to be a martyr to justice and truth, but not to false swearing; and, therefore, he repeated that there was foul perjury in the Tory Committees of the House of Commons. 104 Morning Post
 Mr. O'Connell  inquired of Lord Maidstone, whether, in order to save the time of the House, he would be content with the reading of the passage to which he objected? Morning Post "He (Mr. O'Connell) did not mince the matter; his words might appear in the public press; he hoped they would. Ireland was not safe from the perjury of the English and Scotch gentry, who took oaths according to justice, and voted according to party."
 Mr. O'Connell  then rose and said, that although the course proposed would be personally inconvenient to himself, he bowed at once to the decision of the chair, a decision of which he felt the inconvenience the more particularly since he had entertained the intention, if the noble Lord had concluded with a motion, of moving as an amendment that an inquiry should take place upon this subject; such had been his intention—an inquiry into the entire merits of the case. He had certainly no right to complain of the noble Lord who had preferred this complaint, and who had delivered himself, in his opinion, with as much courtesy as it was possible for him to exhibit upon a question of this nature. If the noble Lord had failed to exhibit that courtesy in one particular phrase which he had introduced into his speech, he was quite ready to attribute it rather to the inexperience in public speaking under which an individual at the noble Lord's time of life must necessarily labour, than to a desire upon his part either to infringe upon any rule of the House, or to be guilty of discourtesy towards him. He did not know exactly what it was of which the noble Lord complained.[ Laughter. 106 107 108 109 110 Hear, hear! 111 Maidstone: Member: Morning Chronicle, Chronicle, Law Magazine Chronicle The Chronicle 112 The Times The Times scandalum magnatum. 113 The Times The Morning Chronicle, The Times? de te fabula narratur." fabulœ The Times The Times The Times 114 The Times, The Times: 115 116 The Times. Morning Chronicle, 117 Cheers and Laughter.
 Viscount Horvick  could not help thinking,
 119 120 The Times Morning Chronicle 121
 Mr. Colquhoun  said, the House had been placed in a very singular position by the amendment of the noble Secretary-at-War. A charge had been made against every Member of that House—at least against every Member who sat on that (the opposition) side of the House—and they had been told by the noble Lord it applied to both sides of- the House, with respect to election Committees. What was the charge? That those who by a solemn oath bound themselves to decide according to evidence were guilty of corrupt perjury. He was glad the noble Lord had retracted the expression "substantially true;" he after wards admitted, that it was not "substantially true;" for he said, that hon. Members being ignorant of law, or difficult questions requiring much technical knowledge often decided wrong. They must all admit, that party spirit or bias prevailed in the minds of hon. Members who constituted election Committees; he attributed to them no blame on that account, for it was inseparable from the weakness of human nature. A Member feeling a strong desire that a particular individual should be seated, heard the evidence and the speeches of counsel with that bias, and decided according to it; but surely there was the utmost difference between the bias of a prejudiced partisan and the cool deliberate calculations of a perjurer. What did the noble Lord propose to do? That they should pass to the order of the day, that they should tamely sit down in the face of the public under the taint of universal perjury. If any one had charged an individual Member of that House with perjury, must he not instantly have proceeded to investigate it, and if he were found guilty, of course he would be considered unworthy of a seat in that House. But was the charge rendered less flagrant because it was made wholesale?—because the House of Com-
 125 The Times Morning Chronicle, Question. 126 Hear, hear! Lord J. Russell: 127
 Lord Maidstone stated,  that it was his intention to go further than the two resolutions if they were agreed to by the House.
 An hon. Member , whose name we could not learn, said, that he had also acted as a Member of an election Committee, and he had endeavoured to act according to his honest unbiassed judgment on the evidence adduced before the Committee, without for a moment considering whether the course he pursued was favourable to the Ministerial or to the Conservative side of the House.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  commenced by observing, that his connexion with the hon. and learned Member whom the resolutions just agreed to by the House had so seriously impugned, coupled with his inexperience in Parliamentary speaking, rendered him somewhat diffident of intruding often on the notice of the House, and therefore it was, that in common with many of his friends around him he had borne in silence the charge of perjury so frequently urged against them from the bench yonder, and from a bench in another place where religion and lawn sleeves sat enthroned, but from which charity and meekness of spirit appeared to have been for ever driven. He did not now rise to repel that charge, or indeed to complain of anything personal to himself, but simply to ask both sides of the House what they
 178 "No, no!" 179 The Limerick Chronicle "Question." 180
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell : I did not mean to impugn the decision of the Committee.
 Mr. Langdale  was surprised at the sensitiveness which had so suddenly seized hon. Gentlemen opposite. On more than one occasion he had to complain of charges having been made against himself as a Roman Catholic by hon. Gentlemen opposite, which they, too, felt so painfully when urged against themselves. The hon. Member who had just sat down had spoken of the indecency of bringing forward charges of perjury against Members of that House; but he should like to know, not how many had indulged in such calumnies, but how few had refrained from them in their addresses on the hustings during the late election? Although those who agreed with him in religious impressions had long been accustomed to be taunted and maligned by every epithet that could be most painful to the feelings of a gentleman, they were not yet so callous as to be insensible to the reproaches which were sometimes cast upon them, and, therefore, he hoped if hon. Gentlemen opposite felt galled when charges like the present were brought home to them, they would be a little more cautious in their aspersions for the future. With respect to the matter immediately under consideration, he meant as to the decisions of election Committees, he felt considerable difficulty in expressing an opinion. He remembered, while yet a novice, unacquainted with the proceedings of that House, being requested to attend a ballot shortly after taking his seat, and the fact he was about to state, while it showed the spirit in which parties acted, was equally applicable to both sides of the House. On that occasion having been anxiously requested to attend a ballot, he said to the gentleman who applied to him, "Are you not aware that the Members are bound by oath at the Table of the House to give a verdict according to the evidence?" And the reply he received was, "If such be your impressions, you may as well absent yourself." He was not aware any distinction could be drawn between a Member binding himself by a solemn oath to give a verdict according to evidence and a juryman in a court of justice; and the expressions of joy and congratulation which he had heard in that House only last Thursday, when a Com-
 124 Fraser's Magazine,
 Lord John Russell  had certainly seen the statements alluded to, but he could not believe, that they could have originated at any sitting of the Middlesex magistrates. Certain circumstances were stated relative to the separation system; but any one who knew anything of that system must know also, that it had never been in force in the Penitentiary at Millbank. It was true, that some separate cells had been made there, but as yet nobody had been confined in any of those cells. Certain prisoners had been named as having been confined in them, and two were mentioned as having been affected with idiotcy in consequence. He did not
 99
 Lord John Russell  said, the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down having called on those who sit on this bench to speak to this question, I am willing to rise for that purpose; but at the same time I do feel that both on myself and on those who sit beside me he imposes rather a hard task in making this demand on us; for if we sit silent, the right hon. Gentleman
 141 142 The Morning Chronicle The Times 143 The Morning Chronicle The Times, 144 145 146
 Lord John Russell  said, the hon. Member for Salford having made a motion for adjournment, I think it my duty to statn shortly how I shall vote upon the questioe now before the House. When the noble Lord proposed to bring forward this subject it certainly appeared to me that it would be better for the House not to entertain the question at all. The House, however, has overruled that impression, and has voted a resolution that the expressions used by Mr. O'Connell contain a false and scandalous imputation against Members of this House. There can be no doubt that Mr. O'Connell has avowed the words attributed to him, imputing foul perjury to Members of certain Committees of this House, and that being the case, the main question now before us is that those words amount to a breach of the privileges of this House, and that is a proposition to which I cannot refuse my assent. It is true I could get rid of this question by voting for the adjournment, but this I shall not do, as I think (so we understood) the sense of the House ought to be taken on the main question. At the same time I beg to say that I do not at all regret the vote I have just given. I have only one word to add. Many hon. Members opposite have pointed out in the course of the debate that we should run great danger if we did not, by some positive resolutions, censure the speech of the hon. Member for Dublin, that the same charges of perjury would be frequently repeated by other Members of the House; and that difficulty it appears we have already incurred. Several hon. Members have already said, that they concur in the expressions used by Mr. O'Connell, and the noble Lord who moves these resolutions will, after that, take whatever course he thinks proper on the subject; but, I think that it is pretty
 170
 Lord John Russell  said, I cannot bring myself to believe that the noble Lord will persist in the motion which has been just put, for he referred to no precedents and no instances of Members of this House who, upon being found by the House (an impartial jury) guilty of the charge of accusing other Members of perjury, were reprimanded by the Speaker in their places. There is no doubt that the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire, can give information to the House on this subject; but even in that case it must be recollected that the Members of the House have had no notice of the noble Lord's motion, or time to see what other precedents there are which might show that the House is not justified in taking the course which is proposed. For my own part I conceive that, having said of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin that he he made "a false, scandalous, and calumnious charge"—that with the open avowal of the hon. and learned Member of having used the language imputed to him, and from the course which he is likely to pursue with regard to what we have heard to-night, merely voting to reprimand him in his place is the most shabby, the most faint-hearted, and pusillanimous course that could be adopted. Why, if this were the case of a miserable and unfortunate printer earning his guinea a week, we should send him probably for some months to prison, exercise towards him acts of great severity, and plume ourselves very much on our justice in so doing. But the hon. and learned Member for Dublin is too formidable a person to be so dealt with. You have screwed up your courage to pass this resolution; but what will be its effect? Why, it will operate as so much waste paper, and tomorrow you will have some hundred Members of
 176
 Mr. Chisholm  rose amidst vociferous cries of "divide," "question," and "order!" The hon. Member was understood to say, that, having served on the Marylebone Election Committee, he fully concurred in what had been stated by the Chairman of that Committee (Lord Eastnor). He had been sworn at the table of the House well and truly to try the merits of the petition in that case, and he had done so to the best of his ability and judgment.
 Mr. Charles Buller  endeavoured to address the House, which manifested much impatience. It did not appear to him that charges of such a nature as those which had been the subject of discussion that night were aggravated by the offensiveness of the language in which they were couched; on the contrary, he thought that the coarseness of the language employed diminished the force of the charge. He wished, therefore, deliberately to bring under the consideration of the House the language which had that night been employed by the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon (Sir Edward Sugden). That right hon. and learned Gentleman used words which, from their very calmness and mildness, appeared to him to convey an imputation most derogatory to the Members of that House; because the right hon. and learned Gentleman said deliberately that the Members of Election Committees were influenced in their decisions by a party bias. Therefore, continued the hon. Gentleman, when you have gone through the various motions of reprimands and committals—(I do not know, whether I shall then have the honour of being left in the House, or whether I shall be obliged to join the party in Newgate or the Tower); but if I remain in the House, I shall certainly move that the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon be added to our party, whatever our destination may be. Meantime, I beg leave now to move that this debate be adjourned till to-morrow.
 Mr. Callaghan  said: Having, Sir, been pointedly named in the resolution just submitted to the House by the hon. Member for Kilkenny, I feel myself entitled to the indulgence of the House while I offer them a very few observations. I feel myself, Sir, in no degree connected with what has taken place out of this House, nor, except from the proceedings here this evening, have I any knowledge of it. But having been present at the discussion of this evening, and finding that by the decision to which the House came upon the motion of the noble Lord the freedom of speech was placed at great hazard, and that in the person of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin our privileges in regard to freedom of speech, both in and out of this House, was assailed, I did feel myself, without any consultation with any living person, bound to come forward and state what I repeat before I took my place here I had no previous intention of doing—namely, that I adopted to the full—
 Mr. Callaghan : I beg to assure you, Sir, that no man can be more disposed to bow to your decision, or less disposed to question the accuracy of your judgment, than I am. As, however, it has been stated by you, Sir, and by the right hon. Member for Montgomeryshire, that no exception can be taken to any expression used by an hon. Member unless that exception is taken at the moment the expression is uttered. I beg, while with great humility I assure you, that no man can be less disposed than I am to impugn
 183
 Mr. Callaghan  again rose, and deliberately said: I avow, Sir, standing here in my place as the Representative of the city of Cork—I avow the sentiments attributed to the hon. Member for Dublin, and admitted by him to be correctly published; and I adopt those expressions to the word and to the letter.
 Mr. Callaghan  said: I feel bound to come forward and state, that however I might disapprove in private of the use of language which ears polite cannot listen to without angry feelings and feelings of reproach, I entirely concur in all the opinions and expressions avowed by the hon. Member for Dublin.
 Mr. Callaghan : I quite bear in mind the caution of the chair; but I think it due to the House and to myself to rise in my place and say, that I am not to be intimidated by a party vote. I am not to be deterred from expressing my opinion that if this vote be carried, the effect will be, that there will be no end of the tyranny of the majorities of this House. There will be no end of the tyranny of this House over the conduct of individuals, if we are to be deterred from the expression of our feelings by a party vote. I do not wish to enter into the feelings under which the hon. Member for Dublin used these expressions at the dinner at the Crown and Anchor; but there will be an end of the independence of Members of this House, if they cannot express their opinions fairly and openly, and if any tribunals erected by decisions of this House cannot have their conduct questioned. I do acknowledge that I feel strongly on this subject, I don't know what ulterior mea-
 168 Much confusion, in the midst of which
 Mr. Callaghan : I really feel strongly. On a matter of order no man is less disposed than myself to show disrespect to the decision of the chair, but on a subject which involves the rights of individuals, as this does, I do declare, and I claim to avow it, that I do adopt to the utmost the language of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. [ Great Laughter and Cheers.
 Mr. Edmund Burke Roche : Representing as I do one of the largest constituencies in Ireland, and reflecting that this subject is one in which the Irish Members of this House are deeply involved, I cannot refrain from saying, that I concur to the fullest degree in the sentiments of the hon. Member for Dublin.
 Mr. Horsman  thought, that hon. Gentlemen opposite were not following the wisest possible course in this matter. He quite agreed with the noble Lord below him, that the evils of the present election Committees were not limited to one side of the House, but prevailed equally on both sides. A substantial majority of the House would affirm that this charge was true. Yes, it was the opinion of a great portion of the Members of that House, that they who came to the Table of the House to swear that they would decide according to justice, were led away by their private feelings, and decided 'according to their party. The Gentlemen opposite appeared, on this occasion, to have their sensitive feelings worked up to the highest pitch of excitement at the bare idea of perjury; but the petition presented a few nights ago, which distinctly charged the Roman Catholic Members of the House with perjury, created no such feeling in the minds of hon. Gentlemen opposite. That petition was intrusted to the hon. Member for East Kent, its reception was opposed, and he himself had submitted to that hon. Gentleman the propriety of withdrawing a petition which passed so great and unnecessary an insult upon a large body of the Members of that House. The hon. Gentleman, however, in order that
 133 134 Hear, hear!
 Sir E. Sugden  was anxious, before the House divided upon this occasion, that they should understand exactly where the question now rested. He confessed he was very unwilling to rise, not simply from the impatience the House might feel, but because he did expect that some Member of her Majesty's Government would address it on this great and important question, involving the rights and privileges of that House, which were the best protection of the liberties of the people when firmly and properly maintained. He did expect that some Member of the Government would have risen on this occasion beyond the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, who had contented himself with offering but a few observations. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, as he understood, put his case thus:—He first told the House, and truly, that it was a fearful thing when the seats of justice were tainted with corruption; and then he stated his sole object to be to bring before the House and the country the defective condition of the tribunal at present established by law for the trial of controverted elections. That, perhaps, was not a fair way of trying the question. In the first place, the House would not fail to recollect how painful it must be to Members who were bound to serve on Committees, and Members who might hereafter be bound to serve on Committees, to have such an imputation cast on them as that of the hon. and learned Member. The hon. Member said, "you have a defective tribunal, against which the whole world cries out as an abuse, and to which we are all agreed that some remedy must be applied; we have tried to remedy it, and the noble Lord on the Treasury bench has expressed his willingness to assist in accomplishing that object; you have opposed us in our endeavours, and therefore let the whole weight of the indignation of the country rest on you." Now, if the question were simply will you or will you not consider whether the tribunal should be altered, there was not one Gentleman on the Opposition side who had not shown perfect willingness to enter upon it. The objection which Gentlemen on that side made to the propositions which had come from hon. Gentlemen opposite was, that after the cases had arisen, and were waiting for adjudication, it was sought to introduce a new tribunal for the purpose of trying
 137 138 139 140
 Mr. Barron : Then I do. [ Cheers and cries of "Question!" Uproar. Uproar. No, no! Divide! Withdraw! "Yes!" "Divide, divide!"
 Mr. H. Grattan  hoped the hon. Member would not persevere, as he had a motion to make by way of amendment. He moved, that the following words be added to the original motion:—"Notwishstanding that the Members for the county of Cork, for the city of Cork, for the borough of Sligo, for the borough of Liskeard, and for the burgh of Falkirk, have avowed the sentiments of the hon. Member for Dublin, and have adopted them in their places."
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, he hoped the House and the public would take note of these proceedings, when they recollected that the Catholic Members of that House had all been accused of perjury. Did the House recollect the legal opinion of an hon. Baronet opposite on a former occasion, in answer to the hon. Member for Liskeard, that there was only one way in which these imputations could be met in this House, namely, by censure; and one way out of it, namely, by personal satisfaction. Did hon. Members opposite forget that opinion? He knew these Committees well, though he had never sat on one; but he had often attended them, and he would not say, that hon. Members who sat on them were perjurers, but, so help him God! he had seen them make such decisions that he would tell them to their faces that they were not honest men. He would say more; he would mention names. [ "No, no!" "Name, name!" 171 Cheering, Order!
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, he did not mean to say that hon. Members opposite were deficient in personal courage, but that they had not the political courage to carry out to the end, the course which they had adopted to-night in bringing forward these resolutions. The hon. Member for Oxford had last year charged the Irish Members with being guilty of perjury, yet there never was brought before the House a motion declaring such a statement to be a breach of the privileges of Parliament, of so little account were these privileges and the honour of individuals then held. But if hon. Gentlemen were so anxious on the subject of perjury he would give them an opportunity of expressing their opinions, or he would resign his seat to-morrow. [ cheers. 172
 The Speaker  said, the hon. Member on reflection must feel that he was expressing his opinions in a manner and tone which ought to be avoided.
 The Speaker  said, that he would call the attention of the hon. Member to the vote which had just been come to by the House, and the hon. Member was, therefore, acting very disrespectfully to the House in re-asserting the opinion and sentiments which had been condemned by that vote.
 The Speaker  said, he would call the hon. Member's attention to the fact, that the debate on this subject had been brought to a close; he would therefore put this question to the hon. Member, whether in the language which he was now using he was seeking to invite aggression on the part of the House?
 The Speaker  then said, that according to his apprehension, a similar course of proceeding should be adopted in the present instance to that which had been pursued by the House in the analogous case in which a charge was preferred against Sir Francis Burdett. In that case the charge was clear and distinct, having been in the form of a written charge, to which the charge in the present instance might be considered as tantamount, as the
 105
 The Speaker : The hon. Member does not perceive the force of the objection as connected with the regularity of the proceedings of the House. It is true, that the hon. Member proposed an amendment to the original motion, which on account of irregularity was not put. The House was then in the same situation as if no amendment had been made—it was then out of the consideration of the House, for which the original question alone remained. An hon. Member rises in his place, and in the course of his speech uses some words which another hon. Member thinks fit to notify to the House and to have them taken down. In such case, it is not orderly to have the words taken down inserted in the original motion by way of amendment.
 The Speaker : I can have no right to interfere with the hon. Member, further than to call his attention to the duty which, as one of its Members, he owes to this House. If the hon. Member is about to repeat the assertions he has already made this evening, I would put it to him to consider whether, in so doing, his conduct would be decorous to the House or consistent with the duty he owes to it.
 The Speaker  said, that the two motions ought, in his opinion, and for the sake of the regularity of their proceedings, to be taken separately.
 The Speaker : The House is aware that there is a motion before them: an incidental objection is taken in the course of the debate, after the original question has been put to the House; and for the regularity of our proceedings the House ought first to dispose of the original question.
 Mr. Milnes Gaskell  said, it appeared to him that the plain and simple question which was now before them, was whether any Member of the House of Commons should be permitted by a majority of its Members, not merely to use the language which had been imputed to the learned Gentleman, but to avow and justify that language in his place in Parliament; refusing to retract one syllable of the imputations he had cast, or to express the slightest regret that he had cast them. He was glad that his noble Friend, the Member for Northamptonshire, had brought this matter before the House. He was glad they had an opportunity of deciding whether there were or were not limits to the abuse and ribaldry that might be resorted to in certain quarters with impunity. He owned, however, he should have thought that upon a question which affected, not merely the privileges of that House, but the common decency of its proceedings, they should have heard a somewhat different speech from that which had just been made by the noble Secretary at War. But it appeared that her Majesty's Government were in a position of some difficulty upon this question, and they sought to evade it by passing to the other orders of the day. They seemed to feel that since the division upon the ballot they had lost ground with their supporters, and instead of meeting this question fairly, by a frank and manly avowal that the language of the learned Gentleman was indefensible, they did not venture to pronounce any opinion upon the subject. But an intimation had been conveyed by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, that if the House of Commons should entertain the proposition of his noble Friend (Lord Maidstone) he would drag under its notice the conduct of the Bishop of Exeter—that he would rake up an old charge which had been delivered by that right rev. Prelate, for the gratification of a certain section of his supporters, who sought for the expulsion of Bishops from the House of Lords. He (Mr. Gaskell) presumed that when the noble Lord had given this notice, he had been actuated by no feelings of personal hostility; although he confessed it had struck him as just possible, that the noble Lord might have had the worst of some previous encounter with the Bishop of Exeter—that he might have been engaged
 122 The Times, The Standard, The Morning Chronicle, 123
 Mr. Plumptre  referred to the petition presented the other evening against the Roman Catholic Members. The parties who signed that petition conceived that the Roman Catholic Members, in taking part in the questions respecting Church property in Ireland and in England, violated
 135
 Mr. Somers  said, that he most cordially concurred in the expressions used by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin at the Crown and Anchor.
 Mr. Brotherton  moved an adjournment of the House.
 Mr. Brotherton  thanked the hon. Member who had vindicated the Salford Committee. He believed that Committee had decided most justly. He also thanked the hon. Member for Wenlock for the information which that hon. Gentleman had, at so early a date, given him about various election Committees; for, before evidence had been heard in any of these Committees, the hon. Gentleman had been kind enough to inform him what would be the result in each case.
 Mr. Hume  rose and said, after the decision which the House has come to I shall not add many words, but I do deny the right of this House to interfere with any Member. I know not where the powers of this House would end if the speeches at taverns and other places are to be taken notice of by it in this way. On this ground I regret deeply not having objected as I intended to do to the introduction of this subject. I rose for that
 167
 Mr. Hume : I submitted, Sir, a motion into your hands, to which an exception was taken on a point of form; every per-
 184
 Mr. Hume  submitted, that they ought not to censure the hon. Member for Dublin, who was absent, when individuals present in that House had used the same expressions; and he thought that the House ought, at once, to come to a decision upon his motion.
 Mr. Hume  rose and said: As the hon. Member has now, in the presence of the House, reiterated his words, I presume that no hon. Member will dispute that the words are within the scope of the resolution which I hold in my hand, and which I have read to the House. If there be any difference of opinion upon this subject, I hope that the objection will now be taken. I move, then, Sir, that "Daniel Callaghan, esq., having avowed that he adopted the sentiments used by Mr. O'Connell, is guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House."
 Mr. Hume : Sir, I move that the words now uttered by the hon. Member for Cork be taken down in writing by the clerk.
 Mr. Hume  said: I wish, Sir, before the House proceeds to decide upon the resolution before them, to remedy what I cannot but consider an inconsistency in their proceedings. We have decided by a majority, which under circumstances I cannot but designate as a large one, that the expressions used by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, are a false and scandalous imputation upon the conduct of Members of this House; and that, by having used them, that hon. and learned individual has committed a breach of our privileges. In despite of this resolution, however, we have heard other hon. Members of this House avow that they participated in the opinions of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and declare that they made his words their own. Now, Sir, to be consistent, I maintain that we ought to vote that those other Members who, in terms, have made in their places the same declaration that we have agreed is false and scandalous, are guilty alike with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin of a breach of our privileges. I say, Sir, I cannot conceive, for one moment, that we can hesitate placing these six or seven (perhaps they will be sixty or seventy by-and-by) Members in the same situation as the hon. Member for Dublin, for they have offended equally with him, and are equally responsible for their words. Be, then, consistent, and place them all in the same situation. [ "No, no!" "Move, move!"
 Mr. Hume : Then, Sir, I withdraw my amendment, and think that the best course will be to move the adjournment of the debate till to-morrow.
 Mr. Eaton  said, that having been appointed a Member of the Committee to decide on the merits of the Belfast election, he could not sit quiet whilst he heard a charge of perjury against it. On the part of that Committee, and in justification of his own conscience, he said, that he would not submit to act upon that Committee if he were liable to be intimidated by the taunts of Mr. O'Connell. He would only add an expression of his willingness to support the motion of the noble Member for Northamptonshire.
 Mr. Jenkins : I assert that the Ipswich Committee has properly discharged its duty, and has decided as the law authorised them to decide. The House can know nothing of the matter, and, therefore, if the hon. Member opposite thinks we have come to an unjust decision, it will be his duty to move for the minutes of the evidence in the case.
 Mr. Jenkins  said, as the hon. Member who last spoke had alluded to the decision of the Ipswich Committee, he felt called upon to make a few observations. That Committee had sat three weeks, and their conduct was before the public [ "Question."
 Mr. Maunsell  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Maunsell  seconded the motion. That duty, he confessed, might have fallen into abler hands; and he felt himself still less competent to cope with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in the particular description of language he was in the habit of using inside as well as out of that House. The aspersions lately cast by that hon. Gentleman upon hon. Members of that House he considered to be unfounded, and, as such, would give them the most unqualified contradiction which the rules of the House and of civilised society would sanction.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declared, that if he had entertained any idea of the impropriety of the inquiry in which they had been engaged, that doubt had been completely removed by the speech which they had just heard. He could not but be convinced of that when he found that the right hon. Gentleman, with his commanding talents, which had acquired for him such influence within the House and out of it, could not make out a better case. The right hon. Gentleman had declared that they on his side of the House had triumphed because the right hon. Gentleman had fallen into a verbal inaccuracy. They had done no such thing; that which the right hon. Gentleman had been pleased to designate a verbal inaccuracy was a solid distinction between two things differing very much from each other. The right hon. Gentleman had first sought to lead the House to imagine that the noble Lord had proposed an amendment, thus affirming the principle. Now, the motion of the noble Lord did not do any such thing; his motion was directly the opposite; and the right hon. Gentleman assumed that this was a mere verbal distinction. This was a misapprehension, he should not say a misrepresentation, of fact upon the part of the right hon. Gentleman. His noble Friend had said this to the House of Commons; he asked them if they would enter into a question which was so likely to embarrass them—where parties were so likely to be affected by it, and where the public was so little likely to be served by it?—and this had been proved by the course which the debate had taken. The House had been called upon to affirm two resolutions, and up to that moment they had not heard one word as to what course was to be taken. He understood, though no direct statement had been made, yet he collected, from the information as far as it had been given, that it was not proposed to go further with those resolutions. He presumed, then, from the tenor of the speech of the noble Lord, that it was not his intention to go further than his two resolutions. He would read the resolutions upon which they were about to divide—"That the expressions containing charges of foul perjury against Members of this House in the discharge of their duties are false and scandalous imputations on the
 155
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : It was intended then to go further, and he should not press that point; but then he asked them would they, by passing the resolutions, attain either of the objects which had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken? What had been done by their present course of proceeding? Supposing an imputation had been cast upon them, supposing a calumny had been uttered against them what had they done? They had taken the means calmly and deliberately of circulating it throughout the world. Every word that he had heard there would be circulated; it would be printed in the votes of that House, and it would be forwarded by the next evening to every portion of the empire. What must be the inference to be drawn from these proceedings? He greatly feared that they would by no means redound to the credit of the character of that House. The right hon. Gentleman had declared that he wanted to attain two objects. He wished, first, that they might set themselves right with the public. How were they to set themselves right? And, next, the right hon. Gentleman wished to protect Members of these Committees. Now, he must say, that when the public formed a judgment with regard to the acts of that House, and their Committees, they did it on grounds much more sound than any that could be afforded by a party vote that night, or by words used at the Crown and Anchor. He was not there, however, to vindicate the words that had been employed—on the contrary, he objected to them—he went
 156 157
 Mr. Gladstone , seeing the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, in his place, wished to ask him a question relative to some very injurious statements which had been put forth relative to the Penitentiary at Millbank, and which had been made at a meeting of the Middlesex justices. He wished to know whether the attention of the noble Lord had been called to a statement of circumstances which, if true, were as discreditable to the Government as pernicious to the establishment? Had the noble Lord already instituted, or, if not, would he institute, an inquiry into the circumstances; and would he consent to lay on the table of the House the result of the inquiry, before the House was called upon to vote the estimates?
 Alderman Copeland  was understood to say, that he had been a Member of the Marylebone Election Committee, and he denied in the strongest terms the charge that had been made. He thought that the honour of the Members of that House was at stake, and they ought not to be drawn from the straightforward path of duty by any question of expediency.
 Mr. Gillon : Sir, I shall vote against the resolution that Mr. O'Connell has been guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House; and, moreover, I beg to reiterate all that that hon. Member has said. This House may just as well attempt to stand on the beach of the sea and attempt to turn back its waves as to prevent the expression of opinion. The opinion of the people out of doors is with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. This House may come to what resolutions it pleases, but the public out of doors will still believe that the decisions of Com-
 169
 Mr. Hogg  did not rise to deal in wholesale imputations against Gentlemen on the other side; he was not going to call the attention of the House to the batch of fount en petitions got up by Mr. Coppock, or to the shrinking sensibility which would not allow a single question to be put to that gentleman when be was called to the bar, but he wished to lay before them a particular case in which that gentleman was concerned. The gentleman who attempted to get up the petition in this case applied to his own agent, who indignantly refused to be a party to the transaction, inasmuch as there was not a tittle of foundation for it; he then went to Mr. Coppock, a ready instrument in such designs, who undertook the job. The House would be astonished when he told them that the agent of the party was told by Mr. Coppock, on remonstrating with him, that he had put in the petition to keep the Tory Members from acting on Election Committees. [Cries of "Name."] He had been asked his authority; he seldom rose in that House, and when he did he took care to be pretty certain of his facts. His authority was a note addressed to him by the agent of the Liberal candidates, who was afraid that he (Mr. Hogg) should think him a party to such a disgraceful proceeding. The petition was directed against himself and his colleague. The note was as follows:—
 "Sir,—A petition having been presented against the return of yourself and Mr. Fox, for Beverley, charging you with bribery and corruption before the House of Commons, I did not think that in the situation in which I then stood I ought to interfere; but the matter being now ended, I think it due to myself, from the position in which I stand, and as agent in the late election, to inform you that I was not, and would not be, a party to such a disgraceful proceeding; and so I told Mr. Coppock, by whom the petition was got up, for the purpose, as he informed me, of preventing either of you from sitting upon Committees. I beg to assure you that Mr. Clay was no party to the getting up of the petition, and that he, with me, deprecates the whole proceeding as most vexatious and ungentlemanlike." 136
 Sir Robert Peel , before he noticed the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down, begged to refer to one remark made by the noble lord (Lord Howick) who moved the previous question. It appeared to him that the noble Lord did not accurately remember what had passed in the House with respect to the bill relating to controverted elections. The noble Lord who represented her Majesty's Government (Lord John Russell) was desirous that the improved system of controverted elections should be immediately brought into operation; "but," said the noble Lord (Lord Howick), "that benevolent and virtuous intention of her Majesty's Government was defeated by the opposition which was offered to it on the opposition side of the House." He did not recollect the anxiety of her Majesty's Government to force forward that measure for the introduction of an improved system, He certainly did remember the noble Lord stating the course he meant to pursue with respect to the fixing of the days for the controverted
 147 148 No, no! 149 150 151 152 * * 153 154
 Sir R. Peel,  after the opinion already expressed by so large a majority of the House, protested against the motion with which the hon. Member had concluded. Anticipating, however, from the spirit manifested on the opposite side of the House, that if a division were again to take place, the motion, though defeated, would be followed by others of a similar kind, he should decline any further contest upon the point.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  rose and said: I apprehend, Sir, it is practically impossible, and contrary to any regulation of the House, that this motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny can be maintained [ Loud cries of "Yes, yes," "Put the Question."
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, he was not surprised at the feelings expressed by the hon. Member who spoke last. He was not surprised, that any hon. Member, on whom by law the trial of a controverted election had fallen, should feel the situation in which he would be placed if he were liable to be charged with the commission of gross, wilful, and deliberate perjury, without having any remedy for such a cruel wrong.
 128 129 130
 Mr. Williams Wynn  rose, but for some time could not, despite the efforts of the Speaker, obtain a hearing. At length, order being in some degree restored, he said: The noble Lord has asked me to state to the House the precedents in favour of the course of proceeding which it is proposed to adopt with the view of giving effect to the resolution the House has already agreed to. I shall endeavour to meet his call, and that as briefly as I can! ["Question!" and confusion.] I do hope the House will hear me, especially as I rise solely in consequence of the appeal of the noble Lord. I will pass by the earlier instance of Sir William Wyndham reprimanded by the vote of the Whigs in 1715, on the motion of Sir Robert Walpole. The first precedent on which I rely occurred in 1790, and will be found in the narrative of this House's proceedings in the case of the public impeachment of Mr. Warren Hastings. General Burgoyne, supported by Mr. Burke, Mr. Fox, Mr. Wyndham, and other managers of the impeachment, made a complaint to the house of Major Scott, for having caused to be inserted in a public newspaper an attack on certain Members for their conduct in the management of the impeachment. Major Scott avowed the Act imputed to him, and the House came to very nearly—as nearly I may say as possible—the same decision as that pronounced this evening. If I am not mistaken, nay, I am positive, the father of the noble Lord opposite, the present Earl Grey, then one of the managers of the impeachment, was the seconder of the motion. The only difference between that case and the pre-
 177
 Sir William Follett  said, he should not be satisfied with giving a silent vote upon the question before the House, more especially after the speeches which had been delivered by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department. It seemed to him that the opposition which was made to the motion of the noble Lord rested principally upon the ground that there were admitted difficulties in the constitution of the Committees of that House, and that it was to be inferred, that the Members disposed to vote with the noble Lord who proposed the motion, adopted the existing system. He would only say, that he had as much experience in the present system upon which their Election Committees were conducted as any one then present, and he was quite satisfied that no other Member in that House had attended more to the defects of the existing system than he had. He must also add, that none were more willing to listen to any suggestion for an alteration in the constitution of those tribunals, and to listen attentively and adopt any proposition which could tend to the destruction of the existing evil. But, then, it was a very different thing not to be satisfied with the existing tribunals, and yet ask him to sanction the charge that Members of that House had been guilty of perjury. If they asked him to believe that hon. Members went to the table to take an oath, and that then they went into a Committee
 158 159 160 161
 Viscount Eastnor , as Chairman of the Marylebone Election Committee; begged to say a few words. It was true, that the majority upon that Committee were Gentlemen who generally sat upon that side of the House, and, consequently, came under the denomination of "perjured Tories;" but he flattered himself, that no one proceeding of that Committee could fairly be brought in question. In point of fact, no sooner had the Committee assembled, and the counsel communicated with each other, than the counsel for the sitting Member, who had to make out his qualification, declared, that after the best consideration of the subject, he was not prepared to advise the sitting Member to defend his case; and, on the other hand, the counsel for the petitioner as distinctly stated, that after due consideration, he thought it would be so difficult, and would require so much time and outlay of money, to strike off, if it could be done at all, so many votes as to put the petitioner at the head of the poll, that he would not give the Committee any further trouble on the subject, and consequently the Committee could not have come to any other decision than the one it had given. He believed, that at the time the speech in question was made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, the Marylebone election Committee was the only one upon which the majority came under the denomination of a Tory majority. He could not have conceived it possible, had he not heard it from the hon. and learned Gentleman, that Sir S. Whalley could make such a statement as that he was deterred from venturing upon the defence of his seat because the majority of the Committee were Tories. This was a most unfair statement, for he could conscientiously say, that he had not, in any proceeding of that Committee, detected the slightest tendency to unfairness. Such statements as these could have no effect upon Members of the House who were acquainted with the circumstances of each case, but they went forth with a most unfavourable effect to the public. He could well enter into the feelings which had actuated the noble Member for Northamptonshire; and when he beard the obnoxious words openly in the face of the House avowed and adopted by the hon. and learned Member who had uttered them elsewhere, he could not conceive how any Member of the House could patiently submit to remain under the charge which they conveyed. The charge was a most
 132
 Lord Maidstone  rose to reply. He said that the right hon. the Chanceller of the Exchequer seemed to think, that he had
 162 "Justum et tenacem propositi virum Non civium ardor prava jubentium, Non vultus instantis tyranny Mente quatit solidâ."—
 Lord Maidstone  moved, "That Mr. O'Connell having been found guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House, be reprimanded for the same in his place by the Speaker."
 Viscount Maidstone  rose, he could assure the House, with the greatest
 100 animus, 101
 Viscount Maidstone  said, that nothing which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member had, in the slightest degree, changed his intention with respect to
 118
 Mr. Aglionby  wished to apply to the House that the ordinary rule with regard to the presenta-
 206
 Mr. Aglionby  moved, that it should be printed.
 Mr. Williams Wyun  did not object to the motion under existing circumstances, but after the accusations brought against the decisions of the Ipswich Committee, the house could not deny the Members of it the opportunity of making public their proceedings.
 Mr. Grattan  moved, by way of amendment, that words to the following effect be added to the motion:—"Notwith-standing that the Members for the county and city of Cork, for Sligo, for Liskeard, and for Falkirk, have avowed in their places in this House sentiments similar to those expressed by the Member for the city of Dublin, and though this House has permitted to pass uncensured and even unnoticed a published charge of the Bishop
 222 223 "Oh, oh!" 224
 Lord G. Lennox  said, it was with deep regret that he felt himself again obliged to call the attention of the House and of the Government to the subject of the slow promotion of the officers of the Royal Marines. He certainly did expect, that after the strong manner in which hon. Gentlemen from all sides of the House last year, when the subject was brought before them, expressed themselves in favour of that body, the matter would have been taken up by the Government, and that it would have been unnecessary for him to have troubled the House again this year. He was the more particularly induced to hope so from the expressions which had fallen from the Secretary to the Admiralty. He did hope that the House would agree with him in thinking, that the time was now come when some measure should be adopted to accelerate the promotion of a useful, meritorious, gallant, and long-suffering body of men. The House was aware that the Ordnance and the Marines were the only branches of the British service in which there was no purchase of rank. It was not his (Lord G. Lennox's) wish to obtain promotion for the Marines at the expense of any other corps; all he asked for them was, that they should receive their fair share of promotion, and within a reasonable time, so that after a certain period of service they might be enabled by promotion to discharge their duty with satisfaction to themselves and benefit to the public. He would now proceed to state to the House what had been done by the Admiralty in the matter since he last had the honour of bringing the question before the House. It was far from his intention to say, that they had done nothing, but he could not say that they had done much, at least as much as, in his opinion, they ought in justice to have done. In June, 1837, nine field officers were allowed the full retiring allowance—were allowed to retire on full pay. Vacancies being thus occasioned,
 238 d. 239 240
 Captain A' Court  did not rise for the purpose of going into details on the present occasion, but to express a hope that the claims of this most valuable corps would receive the fullest consideration on the part of her Majesty's Government. He should content himself with further observing, that whether in the presence of the enemy, or in cases of insubordination in the naval service, the Royal Marines had always evinced bravery and patriotism. He would only allude to the services recently at Hernani, of a battalion of marines, under the command of Colonel Owen, when they covered the retreat of the Legion, and did such good service. That fact, at least, showed that during the long peace, the energy and bravery of the corps had not been, in the least degree, impaired, and he hoped that in the distribution of honorary distinctions, now creating such a sensation in the country, the
 252
 Sir H. Vivian  said, God forbid that he, an old soldier, should get up in his place to detract from the claims of one of the most meritorious corps in her Majesty's service. The grounds on which he wished to appeal to the House were very simple. He knew what difficulties they had in meeting the claims put forward by the different corps of the army for promotion. If they were to accede to the motion of the noble Lord, the consequence would be, that persons would be constantly coming down to the House with petitions from officers of every corps in the service. He earnestly hoped, therefore, that the House, instead of agreeing to the motion of the noble Lord, would vote for the amendment of his right hon. Friend.
 Colonel Conolly  would not vote for the amendment proposed, because, in doing so, he would be only stultifying the vote he had already given in favour of the resolution. Neither was he prepared to pass to the previous question, as proposed by one noble Lord, or to inflict the deepest punishment in their power upon the individual from whom the imputation emanated, as proposed by another noble Lord; because, by none of these courses did he conceive they would vindicate the honour or authority of that House.
 Captain Boldero,  in explanation, begged to observe, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had thrown out a suggestion that he (Captain Boldero) had made a remark reflecting on the character of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster. He begged to assure the right hon. Gentleman that he had never wished to allude in the slightest degree to the character or conduct of that hon. and gallant Officer. All he had done was to ask for the vote of the hon. and gallant Officer in favour of the motion of the noble Lord, and accompany that vote with a declaration to the House of the value of that corps from whose services he had received so much benefit. It had been said that this motion had been brought forward in order to court the favour of constituencies. He begged leave to deny, that he had been actuated by any such motives, or that he had a single voter who could be benefitted by the motion which he had thought it his duty to that branch of the service to support.
 Captain Boldero,  in rising to second the motion, said, that the able advocacy of the noble Lord had produced a great effect on the House last Session, and all parties had agreed that the marines had received very little kindness or generosity from the country, that they were an injured body of officers. When the noble Lord had formerly brought the subject under the consideration of the House, he did not press his motion to a division for two reasons. In the first place, the hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Admiralty, declared that he would take such proceedings as would satisfy the views of the noble Lord; and, secondly, because many thought that the motion infringed on the prerogative of the Crown. After a lapse of some time, there was an order in council, the object of which was to reward worn-out and meritorious officers, and to enable the marines to keep pace in a fair and equitable degree, with other officers employed in her Majesty's service, whose promotion was progressive. Thirty-six officers were allowed to retire on pensions in a short time afterwards, but in their places only twenty were promoted, thereby diminishing the number of future casual promotions by sixteen. There was no chance of preferment for the middle branches, and the corps was absolutely in worse circumstances now than it was last year. The officers were reduced, and from the pay of the colonel commandant, 100 l. 241 l. s. d. l.
 Lord A. Lennox  rose to say a few words in reference to what had fallen from his hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Admiralty, who, if he mistook not, had charged his noble Relative with seeking for popularity by bringing forward his motion. He thought it ill became his hon. Friend to make that charge, because he was convinced that the only object which his noble Relative had in view was to do justice to a gallant and most meritorious corps. His hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Admiralty, appeared to suppose that the navy estimates would pass without any thing being said with regard to the naval service; but he thought the hon. Gentleman was mistaken. It appeared from the navy estimates, which he held in his hand, that there was the sum of 4,490 l. l. l. l. l.
 Lord G. Lennox,  in reply, observed, that he was rather astonished to hear the gallant Admiral object to the terms of his motion, more especially as the gallant Admiral had said last year, in reference to this subject, that the course would be not to refer the matter to a Committee, but that the more constitutional mode would certainly be an address to the Crown. As a reference had been made to a private letter of his, he would be bold to mention the subject of a private conversation with the Secretary for the Admiralty. He had asked the hon. Gentleman for the orders in Council, and the hon. Gentleman's reply was, "There they are, you may see them, but we never have given them, and we never will." The Secretary for the Admiralty had said that thirteen captains had been promoted. Now, in fact, there were but twelve, but he would make him a present of one. But how stood the case with regard to these twelve? Two colonels had died—no thanks to the Admiralty for that. Then, one colonel had been made a major-general, and one had been made adjutant-general, so that there were but eight promoted after all. Mo-
 261
 Lord John Russell  said, that he should give his vote against this last proceeding on this subject, and state shortly to the House the view he took of the case, without entering into any unnecessary argument upon it. Indeed, it was unnecessary to enter into any argument, because what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard very nearly expressed what he thought. He wished the House to recollect, that for some years past attacks had been made of the most gross and abusive kind upon Members of that House, and especially on those who sat on that (the Ministerial) side of the House; he wished the House to recollect that in the autumn of 1836, the very word "perjury" applied to Members of that House, only qualified by being joined in the connexion, "treachery aggravated by perjury"—he begged the House to recollect, that last year he had advised the House not to notice these expressions otherwise than by contempt, and he was glad to find that that contempt had been shown by the House; he begged also to call to the minds of the House the conduct of the Members who had been charged with the crime of perjury, that they had not thought it necessary, although their feelings must have been sorely wounded at the imputations cast upon them, to call upon the House for any kind of vindictive proceedings, or for censures on that occasion. He begged the House also to call to mind, that on various occasions, expressions had been used out of doors highly derogatory to the Queen's Ministers, not only as public men, but as gentlemen, and he thought it right to say, that neither by prosecution nor proscription, nor by taking away of honours, station, office, nor by any other means, had the Ministry done anything that could show vindictive feelings on those occa-
 232 233
 Lord John Russell : for the purpose of bringing myself in order with respect to a motion being before the House, I may be permitted to move for a paper. I move, therefore, for a copy of a letter directed
 205
 Lord John Russell,  in speaking of order, observed that for his own part he fully agreed in the observations which had fallen from the Chair. He had been in hopes that the hon. Member for the county of Cork, having heard what had fallen from the Chair, would have been content to abide by that authority which was due to the station and opinion of the Speaker. He regretted that the hon. Member had not taken that course, because he thought,
 226
 Lord John Russell  said, with regard, to the question which had been put yesterday on the subject of the persons who were confined in the Penitentiary, he thought it would be best to ask for a report from the Commissioners of that prison, with respect to the whole of the circumstances of the respective cases. He could not refer to this subject without returning his thanks to the hon. Gentleman who had put the question to him, for his having had the courtesy to give him notice of his intention to make the inquiry, and also for his having propounded the question in such a manner as to show that his object was only to obtain information, and not to criminate any parties. The practice of bringing forward questions of this description, casting imputations on Ministers of the Crown, taking care that it was without notice—
 Mr. C. Buller  hoped the House would observe the malice of the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 Mr. C. Buller  said, it had become difficult now to know whether the subject before the House was the language taken down as having been used by the hon. Member for the county of Cork, or the amendment of the hon. Member for Meath. His hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, had explained to the House that his object was to throw ridicule on the decision of last night. He must say, as far as that pleasantry might be carried on legitimately, he entirely concurred in the object which his hon. Friend had in view in that exercise of his power; but that pleasantry, his hon. Friend should recollect, might be carried on too long, and he thought this kind of joke had been carried on quite long enough. But he begged Gentlemen opposite to recollect that this matter was not considered a joke by many Members of that House. He begged them seriously to look at the probable consequences of the motion they had unfortunately, and h would say unadvisedly,
 228 229 230 231
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that no blame could attach to the Government for the non-promotion of officers of the marines, as it was the custom in that corps, as in the Artillery, that all advancement should be decided by seniority, and not by any brilliancy of achievement in the service. Before he stated his objections to the motion of the noble Lord, he would refer to what had fallen from the noble Lord and the hon. and gallant Member, as to what he had stated last year to the House. He had stated last year, when the noble Lord brought forward his motion, that the subject was under the consideration of the Admiralty; and though it would have been imprudent for them, having so recently come into office, to adopt any decisive measures, yet long before the noble Lord's motion, the subject had been under the consideration of the board, and
 242 l. l. 243 l. s. d. 244 s. s. d. s. d. 245
 Mr. Cresswell  wished shortly to state his reasons for preferring the original motion to the amendment which had just been proposed. He was the more anxious to do that because the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, had thought it becoming in him last night to impute to hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, that in supporting the resolution submitted by the
 209 210 211
 Mr. Harvey  could not exactly understand the hon. and learned Gentleman, because he had asked them, on the one hand, whether they were prepared to treat as a nullity their vote of last night, while in the earlier part of his speech he seemed to be exceedingly anxious, as indeed was also the hon. Member for Liverpool, to impress upon the House the serious character of the sentence which had been already pronounced. Up to the present time he was ready to concede to hon. Gentlemen opposite that they had not been animated by the narrow views of party in throwing off the blow which they considered to have been aimed at their honour. The resolution which had been proposed in so amiable a manner by the noble Lord opposite had effected that; but it was one thing, allow him to tell the House, to vindicate its honour, and another to avenge it. Hon. Gentlemen ought, in his opinion, to be satisfied with the vote to which the House
 217
 Mr. E. B. Roche  said, that no man felt greater respect than he did for the opinion of the Chair; but this was a subject on which his constituents and himself felt so strongly, that though he was anxious to bow to the Chair on every other occasion, he could not consent on this to yield up his own deliberate judgment. The Speaker had informed him that punishment might follow his perseverance in his present course, and the knowledge of that circumstance impelled him the more strongly to declare his dissent from the resolution to which the House had come last night, and his concurrence with the views expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. He hoped that it would not be considered contrary to the rules of the House if he then proceeded to read from a written paper his adoption of the expressions used by Mr. O'Connell. [" Order."
 Mr. E. B. Roche : As the objection raised by the House in general, and by the noble Lord, appears to be to my reading these words from a paper, I think it is sufficiently reconcileable to my views to state them. [" Order. "Order;" "Chair;"
 Mr. E. B. Roche,  rose to explain his reasons for having last night declared that he was a participator in the opinions expressed by the hon. and learned Member. He complained of the proceedings of the election committees, as exhibiting a perversion of public principle to party spirit. The division of last night was more of a party division than any other that had taken place this Session. The fact was, the motion of last night was directed against an individual whom the Gentlemen opposite dreaded. He was persuaded it was not the result of that squeamish sensitiveness, so much talked of, but of personal enmity towards the hon. and learned Gentleman. He adopted the expressions used by the hon. and learned Member, because he believed them to be substantially correct. It was said that the hon. and learned Gentleman, having laid down a principle of conduct for himself which rendered him irresponsible for any strong language that he used, ought to be particularly careful that he did not give personal offence; but he, in adopting the language of the hon. and learned Member, was ready to give anybody who objected to those expressions any satisfaction that they might require.
 Mr. Pendarves  felt so strongly for the honour and dignity of the House, that he ventured to put himself forward on the present occasion to endeavour, if possible, to avert from the House the evils which were likely to result from the debate last night, and the course it was then resolved to take. He never recollected in that House so great excitement as prevailed on that occasion, and he trusted that hon. Members now in cooler moments, would see the expediency of
 208
 Mr. Goring  was understood to say, that although he thought that the words of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin were unjust, he was satisfied that the House was losing its character and dignity by pursuing the course which it had adopted towards the hon. and learned Member for Dublin.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not wish to prolong the debate, but merely to state the reason why he should support the amendment of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer in preference to the motion of the noble Lord. He would not have it understood, however, that, in taking that course,
 259
 The Speaker : The House is placed in an entirely new situation by this discussion. The House has come to certain resolutions expressing its censure and displeasure with regard to certain expressions used elsewhere, and avowed in this place by an hon. Member. The consequence of that decision has been, that various other Members have since risen for the purpose of repeating, reiterating, and avowing similar expressions. The object of that course, no doubt, was to court for themselves the censure which had been pronounced upon another. It was accompanied also with this irregularity, and by what I must call this great novelty. Hitherto no expression has been noticed, and made the foundation of any proceeding against an hon. Member, unless the words were taken down at the time; and what had usually happened? According to the former usage and practice of Parliament, whenever the words of an hon. Member were taken down, it was on the motion of some other hon. Member
 225
 The Speaker  said: The question is, whether the rule is, that there should be no reference, in debates in this House, to the particular proceedings in the other House. Undoubtedly, as a general rule, it is not expedient, nor is it within the rules of this House to make allusion to what takes place elsewhere.
 Mr. Hume  rose to request that the hon. Members words might be taken down. He apprehended it was perfectly consistent with the rules of the House that any hon. Member might request words which he thought objectionable and improper, to be taken down. [ "Oh!"
 Mr. Hume  said, hon. Members might think it a very unusual course, that concurring as he did with the hon. Member for Cork, he should have taken an objection to the words he had employed. Now, there were two modes of dealing with a matter. One was to attempt to reason on it; the other was when reason failed, to have recourse to ridicule. He was desirous of throwing ridicule on the conduct of the other side; he was now trying to do that; he wanted to show, as he said last night, that it was impossible to say where hon. Members wished that such proceedings should stop. The hon. Member for Cork and several other Gentlemen had made the same declaration as the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and he was ready to do the same. If the resolutions agreed to by the House were adopted with the view of maintaining their honour and dignity, he would ask was it consistent with their dignity to punish one man for having used certain expressions, and abstaining from punishing others who declared their perfect concurrence in them? He did not think be had abused that freedom of speech which was the right of every Member of the House, and he begged to request that the words might be read by the clerk, in order that he might take a further proceeding regarding them.
 Mr. Hume  said, that when the hon. Member talked of this being an unconstitutional course, he would tell him what he did not seem to know, that it was the constitutional duty of the House, if any case came to the knowledge of a Member in which any part of the public money had been improperly applied, to bring it before the House. If the services of the Marine corps were compared to those of other branches of the military force it must be admitted in the House, as it had been admitted out of the House, that justice had not been done to the Marines in the granting of honours and promotions to the officers. If any man would take the trouble to look into the matter, he would find that this corps had been very unjustly treated, though none was more deserving of rewards and encouragements. He had said as much on a former occasion; and one cause of the neglect which the officers of the Royal Marines had suffered was, that they had not so many friends among the aristocracy as the other services had. He certainly did think that the Govern-
 246 247
 Mr. Hume  said, that if Mr. O'Connell was to be punished, every other Member who had adopted his words ought to be dealt with in the same manner. He would move that the words of all such Members be taken down in writing by the clerk at the table.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that the words be taken down. He had now put hon. Members at the opposite side in the wrong box, and let them get out of it as soon as they could.
 Mr. Jenkins  said, that as Chairman of the Committee, he had intended last night to move for the production of the minutes, but he had been prevented doing so by his understanding that the hon. Member for South Essex would have moved for them. He was most anxious that the minutes should be produced, in order that the conduct of the Committee might be vindicated; and he, therefore, moved as an amendment to the motion of the hon. Member opposite, that they should be laid on the table.
 Mr. T. Gibson  rose and said, that he thought the House would be unable to do strict and impartial justice to both parties unless the evidence taken before the Committee was brought before the House He hoped, therefore, that some hon. Member who had sat on the Committee would move, that the evidence should be printed. With regard to the decision as to the special constables, it was a unanimous vote, and could not be considered a
 207
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he thought the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down showed the extreme inconvenience of a motion like that now before the House. Was there any body who denied, or attempted to deny, the services—the eminent services—of the royal marines on all occasions when those services had been required. No man was more ready or willing than his hon. and gallant Friend near him (Sir T. Troubridge) to do full justice to that branch of the service, but at the same time, he and the House ought not to lose sight of the fact, that if the gallantry of the corps—if the reliance of the country on their services on future occasions—if the confidence of the country was to be reposed, it could not alone be confined to the corps of royal marines. His hon. Friend (Mr. C. Wood) had put this question on a proper footing,—namely, was the House disposed to undertake the duty of the administration of the active military service of the country? Were hon. Gentlemen opposite, who themselves were so much attached to the prerogative of the Crown, inclined on the present occasion to depart from the warning which had been given them by the right hon. and gallant Officer opposite, who, though not himself affected by this question, was an ornament to the profession? He alluded to the right hon. and gallant Member for Launceston. Was the House disposed on the present occasion to throw that authority aside, and to undertake for itself to say what ought to be the state of promotion in any branch of the service? The House was fully entitled to know the improved state of promotion in the corps of Royal Marines, and he was fully prepared to move for the production of documents to show that result; but if the House would undertake to affirm by a single vote, unaccompanied by more of deliberation than had taken place to-night—absolutely to affirm that this corps should be placed in a different relative position from other branches of the service, then the House would interfere with the prerogatives of the Crown, and establish a most dangerous precedent. Slowness of promotion had been complained of in this corps. Now, what had been the result since the order in council in July last? There being four colonels commandant, the full number had been made up; of lieutenant-
 253 l. l. 254 255 "To call the attention of the House to the slow promotion of the officers of the Royal Marines, and to move that an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her serious consideration the expediency of adopting some plan to accelerate promotion generally in the corps of Royal Marines, so that it may keep pace in a fair and equitable degree with those branches of her Majesty's forces whose system of promotion is progressive; and also to take the case of the captains of the Royal Marines into her Majesty's consideration, with a view of placing them upon the same footing as those of her Majesty's regiments of the line; and likewise to provide some measure for the benefit and relief of those first lieutenants of the Royal Marines who served during the late war." 256
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had misconceived him, if he supposed that he had imagined the hon. and gallant Gentleman to have cast any reflection on the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster. His observation was, that the hon. and gallant Member having made the statement that the marines did their duty on the occasion to which he alluded, might have confined his praise to them without attacking other corps, in the absence of one who was best able to defend their conduct. He had never supposed that the hon. and gallant Member had in any way alluded to the conduct of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster.
 Mr. Gillon  said, he adopted the words
 237
 Mr. Gillon  did not think the course pursued by hon. Gentlemen opposite at all creditable to them. The question of privilege was one of the most dangerous description. He only spoke the sentiments of his constituents when he said, that the conduct of the Election Committees was most corrupt. As for any stigma which the House might propose to inflict on the hon. Member for Dublin, he for one should be proud to bear a share of it.
 Sir A. J. Dalrymple  wished to guard himself in the vote which he should give
 257
 Admiral Adam  said, that if the House interfered in the manner proposed by his noble Friend, the Member for Sussex, and took the power of promotion out of the hands of the Government, while it gave them nothing but the disagreeable duty of punishment or disapprobation, when called for, the efficiency of every part of the forces must be impaired.
 Sir C. B. Vere  said, that it had always appeared to him that the neglect of the interests and claims of the officers of the Royal Marine corps was not only an act of injustice to them, but a great injury to the public service of the country. The present motion was certainly not so objectionable in form as that which was brought forward last year for a Committee of inquiry into this subject. He wished to suggest to the noble Lord, that he should not carry out the whole of the address, but only adopt this portion of it, "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, praying her Majesty will be graciously pleased to take into her serious consideration the expediency of adopting some plan to accelerate promotion generally in the corps of Royal Marines, so that it may keep pace in a fair and equitable degree with those branches of her Majesty's forces whose system of promotion is progressive." He would stop there, because then there would be no particular mode pointed out; nothing objectionable would then be contained in the address; but her Majesty would see that justice done to that noble corps which they all wished, in such a way as it might please her Majesty to direct. He was persuaded that the House would recollect when the subject was brought forward last year, although the noble Lord withdrew his motion, because it was promised that it would be taken into consideration, it was spontaneously approved of by the House, and that the whole House agreed that it was a question which ought to be favourably entertained. The hon. Gentleman, the Secretary for the Admiralty however, undertook, on the part of the Admiralty, that it should be made a subject of inquiry, with a view to some satisfactory arrangement. It was then decided by the House that it was desirable that such a step should be taken, and that there
 248 An hon. Member:
 Sir E. T. Troubridge  wished to make some remarks with regard to the survey of the Royal Marine Corps which had taken
 250 d. 251
 Sir Frederick Pollock  felt himself compelled to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, why he had thought fit last night to impeach the conduct of Members at that (the Opposition) side of the House, as "shabby," while to-night he sat silent, apparently prepared to vote that they should pass by the question altogether. Now, if the one proceeding was shabby, the other was ten times more so. He did not know to what extent the noble Lord might be a judge of what constituted a shabby proceeding, but he protested against the noble Lord's being considered a judge of what was shabby on that, the Opposition side of the House. He was really surprised at the tone adopted by the noble Lord when he taunted the noble Lord, the Member for Northamptonshire, with declining to follow up the vote of that House—a vote in which the noble Lord felt himself bound to concur, by some stronger measure than that which had been proposed; he was
 215 216
 Captain Pechell  hoped the House would beware of the statement of the right hon.
 260
 Sir J. R. Carnac  hoped he might be permitted to offer a few observations to the House. He could not think that any argument was necessary, to show that a corps like the Royal Marines ought to be placed in a situation equal to that of any other branch of the service. The officers of marines complained that they were labouring under disadvantages which did not affect officers of regiments of the line, of the artillery, of the engineers, or of the navy. They complained of the slowness of promotion. Could any one deny that fact? During the last five years, of the officers promoted to the rank of colonels commandant, the youngest had been fifty-eight years in the service. The senior lieutenant colonel promoted had served forty-two years, the senior major forty years, and several of the senior captains were of the same standing. But the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty had told the House that by the orders in council of last year, a boon had been conferred on this corps, and promotions had been accelerated to a degree never before known in any branch of the service. Look at the facts. It was found, that even after this boon had been given, the senior lieutenant was forty-five years in the service, and the same gradation took place in all
 258
 Sir R. Heron  wished distinctly to state that he did not wish to impugn the decision come to on the occasion alluded to. He happened to have voted in the minority, but the question was exceedingly difficult to decide, and he was by no means satisfied that he gave the vote in the way in which it should be given. He was no lawyer, and he gave his decision conscientiously and to the best of his abilities, but he did not mean to assert that his judgment was perfectly right. There were opposite decisions of Committees on this point; he did not, therefore, impugn the proceedings that had taken place, but it showed how bad the practice was when there were such contradictory decisions.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that the course proposed to be pursued was warranted by all the precedents of the best times, and was sanctioned by the opinions of Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox, Mr. Burke, Mr. Wyndham, and Lord Grey, namely, that in cases of breach of privilege like the present the Members should be reprimanded in their places. It was now, however, for the first time proposed that after the House had voted a person guilty of a high misde-
 212 213
 Viscount Castlereagh  was very anxious to set himself right before the House as to his vote of last night, in reference to the charge which had been preferred by hon. Members on the opposite side of the House, against several hon. Members at his (Lord Castlereagh's) side, of having imputed something very like perjury to the Roman Catholic Members of that House. For himself, he could only say this, that whatever sentiments might be entertained by others, he was quite incapable of attributing to any Gentleman in that House, let his politics be what they might, anything which he should feel himself constrained to decline to do, consistently with his own sense of honour. He spoke as an Irishman; and as no Irish Member at his side of the House had risen during the progress of this debate, he availed himself of this opportunity to declare his conviction, with reference to his Roman Catholic fellow countrymen, that their honour, integrity, and conscientious feelings were equal in intensity to those which he himself entertained, If he had not felt thus, he would not have been justified in his vote of last night, nor should he have felt himself prepared to have acted as a judge upon himself. Whether the imputation had been cast on the other side of the house or not, was no justification of the language that had been used, and he felt himself personally, though
 214
 Viscount Maidstone  observed, that when the House came to a vote last night, he conceived that the question had been decided upon, and that some punishment would follow as a matter of course. He appealed to the Speaker, if ever there was an occasion like this, upon which the House had come to a similar decision, when that decision had not been followed up by some other proceeding? Surely it was not to go forth to the country that on Monday they said "Yes," and on Tuesday "No." Why not proceed in the customary way? Where was the use of holding the scales of justice in one hand, and the sword in the other? Of the courses proposed he was undoubtedly in favour of the most lenient, but with their vote of yesterday recorded, a vote come to after due and deliberate consideration, he did
 218
 Viscount Maidstone  moved, that Mr. O'Connell be ordered to attend in his place in the House to-morrow to receive the reprimand of the Speaker.
 Viscount Sandon  rose to order. I wish to know whether it is in order to allude to what has taken place in another House. I rise to ask whether it be in order, there being no question before the House, to refer to such matters, there being no person in this House who is connected with the subject, and to take this opportunity of making reflections on the course of conduct pursued in another House.
 Mr. O'Connell : I am here, Sir.
 Mr. O'Connell  proceeded to say:—Sir, it seems to me that in following the precedent which you have laid down on the present occasion, much inconvenience has arisen. I have been deprived of a considerable advantage in my defence, by the mode of proceeding adopted by the House. It is but of small importance to myself, whatever my own inconvenience and suffering may be, but it is of great importance to the House and to the country that in the course of proceeding adopted there should be no disparagement to the character of the House in regard to its moral conduct in the eyes of the country at large. It is not merely by a longwinded resolution, whilst a portion of our body admits the allegation—it is not because we say, that we are pure, that the country will judge us to be so—it is not, Sir, because a majority of nine, or of nine and-twenty, or even of 200, have declared themselves free from taint, that the country will believe our conduct to be pure. As for myself, Sir, the morality or immorality of this House is a subject of trivial importance; but it is of great importance for the true administration of justice, that no party should be deprived of his rights by reason of a little political bias. In my opinion, Sir, and doubtless in the opinion of the country, the House will not be considered to have vindicated itself by this vote, any more than the judges, who authorised the taking of ship-money would have vindicated themselves before the public, if they had met and declared themselves to be pure, and patriotic, and just. I am sorry that I was not in the
 266 267 268 269 270
 Mr. O'Connell : If that is the rule, Sir, I now give notice that I will move for the committee to-morrow.
 Sir George Strickland  thought, the House ought to go into Committee on the Bill.
 Lord John Russell  moved, that the Speaker's address be inserted in the journals of the House.
 Lord John Russell  entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite as to what he had said on the subject before the House. Certainly the law require that the Committee must continue its sitting, without any alteration being made in the Members sworn; and it did not appear, that any hon. Gentleman could, of his own accord, neglect to give his attendance on the Committee; and if any question affecting his own vote, or that of an other person in the same situation with himself came on, he must still vote upon it. He thought this last consideration was sufficient to induce the House to accept the apology of the hon. Gentleman, and to allow him to be exempted from further attendance in his place in the Committee.
 Mr. Hawes  opposed the Speaker's leaving the chair. He was sorry to differ in opinion from his hon. Friend as to this Bill. He entertained, however, very great objections to the principle, and he did not think, if it went into Committee, that it could be materially improved. He objected that there should be two distinct boards, one in the city of London and one in Westminster, to govern the same body of men.
 Mr. Baines  had no objection to the clause being taken into consideration on the report.
 Mr. Baines  did not rise to oppose the motion of his hon. Friend for going into a Committee. On the contrary, he was a decided friend to the Bill, which was intended to economise the profuse expenditure that had hitherto existed in the collection and distribution of the First Fruits and Tenths. Would the House believe it, that out of the miserable pittance of 13,500 l. l. 281 l. l., l.
 Mr. Baines  moved an additional paragraph, enacting that the Court of Governors of the Corporation of Queen Anne's Bounty should in future be held to be
 282
 Mr. Baines  could not think that the management had been so praiseworthy as was said, because it had not been economical, the cost of managing the income of the corporation being forty per cent. on the whole.
 Mr. Goulburn  did not object to the board carrying on its business as at present. Any layman who wished to attend the board might easily do so by stating his intention to the secretary, who would send him a summons. He had had occasion to pay much attention to the subject; and he appealed to the learned Solicitor-General to know whether the board had any power under the Act to make a new valuation. He had taken the opinions of many eminent lawyers upon the subject, and they were all uniform in holding that the governors had no such power either in this country or in Ireland. It was, therefore, no imputation upon them not to have done what the law did not empower them to do. His opposition to the amendment was simply that it contained an imputation upon those who had hitherto been intrusted with the management of the fund. He thought it hard to cast an imputation upon the governors, and interfere with the carrying on of the business, because persons entitled to attend did not take the trouble to put themselves in the way of being called upon. Any gentleman sending his address to the secretary would be sure to receive a summons, but it would be a waste of time and trouble to require the secretary to send notices to three or four hundred persons whose residences were not known.
 Mr. Gally Knight : In rising to move that this Bill be committed, I cannot help regretting that the advocacy of the measure has not fallen into abler hands than mine and I assure the House that I should no have put myself forward on this occasion had any other hon. Member been disposed
 274 275 276 Gazette 277 Gazette 278 279 l. s. d., l. London Gazette; 280 l. l.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, the hon. Baronet was bound to delay his Bill until the police of the city underwent the proposed regulation, and he would move that the Bill be committed that day six months.
 The Speaker : Mr. O'Connell, it is contrary to the rules of the House to move for a Committee without having given notice.
 The Speaker : The hon. Member will be pleased to stand up.
 The Speaker  proceeded to address him in the following words: Mr. O'Connell, you have permitted yourself to be betrayed into the use of expressions, at a public meeting, with respect to which this House has come to the following resolutions:—"That the expressions in the said speech, containing a charge of foul perjury against Members of this House, in the discharge of their judicial duties are a false and scandalous imputation on the honour and conduct of Members of this House. That Mr. O'Connell having avowed that he had used the said expressions, has been guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House; and, finally, that he be reprimanded in his place." The charge of foul perjury is one
 264 265
 The Speaker : Is the hon. Member in his place?
 Mr. Hume  thought, that nothing could be more reasonable than to direct the officer whose duty it was to send summonses to every member of the board.
 Mr. Hume  had objections to almost every clause of the Bill which contained a penalty. He suggested that the hon. Baronet should withdraw the Bill.
 Sir M. Wood  could state to the House, that the moment the aldermen knew that they were governors of the board they began to attend. It was a long time, however, before the fact became generally known.
 Sir M. Wood  moved the order of the day for going into Committee on the Hackney Carriages Bill.
 Sir M. Wood  was surprised at the objections raised by his hon. Friend, because one of the main objects of the Bill was to give the same power to the magistrates of Westminster as was enjoyed by the magistrates of the city of London. But as regarded any hardship upon the owners of these carriages, so far from their objecting to it, they had waited on him, expressing their wish that the Bill should pass as it now stood.
 Mr. Sanderson  then handed in an affidavit to the clerk at the table, and was sworn to the truth of its contents which were as follow:—"I was not aware whet my name was drawn on the London Election Committee that I had voted at that election."
 Mr. Sanderson  rose, and said, that he felt that some explanation and some apology were due from him on this subject. It was now nearly twelve years since he had first sat as a Member of that House, and, during that time, he had always been an elector of the city of London. It so happened that, at the time at which the election for the city took place, he was almost invariably in attendance at his own election at Colchester, and had, therefore, been prevented from voting, and he thought this had been the case at the last election, and he said so in this House. On reference to the poll-books, however, that morning, and which was entirely of his own accord, he found, that the fact was not as he had imagined, but that he had voted at the last election. He immediately communicated the fact to the chairman of the Committee, and he could now only sincerely express his regret for the inconvenience which his neglect had caused to the House. He could assure the House that the error had been quite unintentional, and he did hope, that every hon. Member would acquit him of any desire whatever to act improperly. What course would be taken by the House he was unable to say, but, for his own part, he wished his name to be struck off the list of the Committee.
 Mr. Estcourt  objected to the addition, as invidious and as imputing improper motives to the ecclesiastical governors, who had always done their duty in a manner that deserved the thanks of the country.
 Mr. Curry , the chairman of the London Election Committee, appeared at the bar, and said, that he had been directed by the Committee to report to the House, that,
 271
 Sir R. H. Inglis  also objected to the amendment. The number of laymen now qualified by law to act on the board was nearer 1,000 than 500.
 The Solicitor-General  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) that however expedient it might be to have a new valuation, neither the Board of First Fruits nor of Queen Anne's Bounty had the power under the Act to make a valuation.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, that he thought this House would look with very great regret at the unfortunate error of the hon. Gentleman who sat near him, but, whatever any others might feel, he was quite sure that the hon. Gentleman himself must be sincerely sorry for the occurrence. The mistake, however, having been committed, it was a subject deserving of consideration as to what was the proper course to be pursued. There was an act in existence, to which the late Lord Colchester, about twenty years ago, had introduced a clause
 272 273
 Viscount Maidstone  moved that the Order of the Day for the attendance of Mr. O'Connell should be read.
 Sir G. Strickland  said, he had a very strong opinion upon the subject, and he did not think that the hon. and gallant Member had stated sufficient grounds to warrant the adoption of his plan. He approved of the present system of lighting and ventilating the House, and must confess that, under the former one, he had frequently found the air in the House a great inconvenience. Such was not the case at present, the House being very much improved in that respect, and also with reference to the facility of hearing. His opinion was, that Dr. Reid's operations had been in a very great degree, if not wholly, successful, and the present proposition was not called for. The gas experiment had proved very disagreeable—and, although many hon. Members complained of a great want of light in the House at present, he was of opinion that the introduction of a great blaze of light would be found still more so.
 Mr. Pryme  said, that the present manner of lighting the House was very disagreeable to Members sitting in the galleries of the House, and he understood the plan of the hon. and gallant Member to refer not so much to the introduction of any very great blaze of light into the House as to the elevation of the present lustres.
 Mr. Aglionby  rejoiced to find, that no opposition had been offered on any hand to this measure, and he rejoiced still more to find that the noble Lord in bringing forward this measure had offered to the House one of the greatest improvements ever contemplated in the administration of the laws of this country. But he was exceedingly anxious to know from the noble Lord whether he intended to limit the jurisdiction of this valuable court to cases of debts. He also wished to know whether the court would entertain questions of
 342
 Lord John Russell  suggested that the plan of the hon. and gallant Gentleman should be referred by him to the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests.
 Lord John Russell  said, he rose to bring under the consideration of the House an important measure, relating to the administration of justice in the courts of quarter session and in the other county courts in this country. There were several reasons why it was necessary that the attention of Parliament should be called to this subject, and that there should be some legislation with reference to it. One very obvious reason was, that very great changes had taken place in the law with regard to capital punishment.
 333 s. "My Lords, I think it necessary to state, that I never did cast any imputation, directly or indirectly, upon the motives of those who are the supporters of this Bill, when I intimated something like objection to what appeared to me to be a systematic plan for altering the criminal law of the land. What I meant, my Lords, was this—after having last year a Bill on our table which has made a most dangerous innovation on the criminal law of the country—having that followed up by another which is making equally as mischievous a progress—the same arguments applying to every law, and to every crime which has been applied to this—I want to know, my Lords, when we are to stop in this course of legislation? My Lords, if we suffer this Bill to pass we shall not know where to stand—we shall not know whether we are upon our heads or our feet. If you repeal the Act which inflicts the penalty of death for stealing to the value of five shillings in a shop, and suffer this Bill to pass into a law, you will be called upon next year, I have little doubt, to repeal the law which prescribes the penalty of death for stealing five shillings in a dwelling house, there being no person therein. A law, your Lordships must know, upon the severity of which, and the application of it, stands the security of every poor cottager who goes out to his daily labours. He, my Lords, can leave no one behind to watch his little dwelling, and dreserve it from the attack of lawless plunder-
 334 * s. 
 
 Years. Executed. Population. 
 1831 1 267,000 
 1835 1 437,000 
 1836 1 832,000 
 1837 1 1,903,000 * 335 s. 336 
 
 ASSIZE COURTS. 
 1835 3,408 1837 3,466 
 LOCAL COURTS. 
 1835 3,373 1837 4,027 
 CENTRAL CRIMINAL COURT. 
 1835 2,849 1837 3,075 
 
 QUARTER SESSIONS COURTS. 
 1835 10,737 1837 13,044 337 338 l. 339 l.; l. 340 l. l.
 Lord J. Russell  said, the chairman was intended to act as chairman of the court, not as sole judge or recorder, and that appeals were to be tried before the Court.
 Lord J. Russell  had now only to express his acknowledgments to the House for the manner in which it had been pleased to receive the bill. He trusted he should be able to have the bill printed and distributed some time before the next Quarter Sessions came on. It was not his intention to bring it on for further consideration before Easter, in order that in the mean time hon. Members might have an opportunity of maturely weighing its provisions, and making suggestions with a view to rendering the bill as effective as possible.
 Lord John Russell  should be glad if some time were given before the return was moved for, to see whether the information required could be readily obtained. He was not quite certain whether such' returns could be given, and therefore hoped the hon. Member would postpone his motion for a few days. For his own part he had no objection to give any of the information that was required; but he thought, if what was now asked for was given, that other returns would be requisite to elucidate them; for instance, the time when the several workhouses were opened for the reception of the poor, the different periods when the death of the inmates occurred, and the causes of their deaths, arranged under different headings.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the noble Lord was entitled to great praise for the many measures for the amendment of the law which he had brought forward. He thought that this was another measure for which the noble Lord was entitled to the gratitude of his country. He was glad to find, without meaning the slightest degree of disrespect to the magistracy of this country, that duties of such great importance as those connected with the administration of justice should in future be performed by persons professionally competent to the discharge of those duties. He thought that the improvements proposed by the noble Lord would tend to lighten the expense to the country, and at the same time to remove crime. He cordially supported the measure, with one single exception, and that, in his opinion, was one which was likely to obstruct the progress of the measure; he alluded to the provision which enacted that this measure should not be carried into effect except in cases where the magistrates applied for its introduction. He thought that if the measure was of real importance, if it effected great public good, and he would be surprised to hear this denied, in that case, he thought it desirable that it should be at once introduced and carried into operation generally. He would not oppose the bill, but he could not help expressing his regret that this provision formed a part of it.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that those who professed a regard for the magistrates of England took a very odd way of affording a very practical manifestation of their regard for those gentlemen when they suggested that, instead of being left to their discretion to adopt the measure, they should have no discretion at all in the matter, but that the bill should be made compulsory. He thought this was by no means behaving well towards that useful body of gentlemen, who gave their valuable services gratuitously, and discharged them with no less advantage than satisfaction to the country. There was another point to which he objected—namely, the payment of the salaries of the officers under this Bill out of the county rates. This, he thought, would be found burthensome and unsatisfactory, He wished to call the attention of the hon. Gentleman to the fact that offences of a certain description
 343
 Colonel Sibthorp  wished to direct the attention of the House and of the noble Lord for the Home Department to a case that had appeared in the newspapers, which was a lamentable instance of the pernicious working of the Poor-law
 329
 Mr. C. Wood  had no objection to the return moved for by his gallant Friend. He was satisfied that there was not the slightest foundation for the attack that had been made elsewhere on the naval officers employed on the western coast of Africa. He was convinced that no officers of the navy could have been guilty of such disgraceful conduct as had been imputed to them. The statement that had been made elsewhere was altogether unwaranted by the facts of the case. Before the treaty with Spain, no officer could seize a vessel engaged in the slave trade unless it had slaves on board, and if they did so, they exposed themselves to the risk of heavy penalties. Under the treaty, however, vessels equipped in a particular manner were liable to seizure. He should feel the greatest pleasure in giving the return moved for, as it would show that the naval officers had manifested the greatest exertions to suppress the Spanish slave trade, and that those exertions had almost entirely put a stop to the infamous traffic under that flag. He had thought it only a matter of duty to bear testimony to the gallant conduct of the officers employed in seizing slave vessels on the pestilential coast of Africa.
 Mr. Wodehouse  was perfectly certain that no person would grudge to pay the salaries under this bill out of the county-rates who was capable of judging of the improvement in the administration of the criminal justice of the country which would be effected by this bill.
 Mr. Goring , in seconding the motion, expressed his concurrence in what had fallen from the hon. and gallant officer in reference to what he considered a most uncalled-for and unjustifiable charge on the part of a certain noble Lord. He was, however, of the same opinion which he had last year expressed on this subject—namely, that they could not effectually put a stop to the slave trade until they constituted it an act of piracy, and resolved upon hanging at the yard-arm the commander of every slave trade vessel they could capture.
 Mr. Goulburn  agreed with the hon. Baronet who had just sat down. He thought the House was now both well lighted and well ventilated, and disapproved of anything being adopted which had a tendency to interfere with Dr. Reid's plan of ventilation.
 Mr. Handley  expressed his complete satisfaction with the measure. He flattered himself he was not saying too much, on the part of the payers of county-rates, when he said that they would not grudge paying the salaries under the bill in return for the great benefits in the administration of justice which would be conferred by it upon the country.
 Mr. Gaily Knight  could not, upon this occasion, deprive himself of the pleasure of expressing the great satisfaction which he felt at the measure brought in by the noble Lord. He sincerely hoped the noble Lord would not be deterred from the "permissive system," which was well calculated to recommend the bill to the country. There were one or two points, however in which he thought the bill defective, but these he would have an opportunity of considering more fully at a further stage of the bill. At present he might say, that when there were to be eight sessions held in the course of the year instead of only four, as at present, there was no necessity for setting a court entirely apart for the trial of debts. The business, it appeared to him, might be taken together in the same court.
 Mr. Gally Knight. —Then my objection ceases.
 Mr. Warburton  hoped the House would persevere in the present system of ventilating the House—as well as oppose any proposition such as this for altering the
 332
 The Speaker  here submitted to Sir F. Trench whether it would be of any advantage to proceed further with the discussion?
 Mr. Barneby  said, the House would perhaps be surprised to learn, that no fewer than 13,000 persons had been tried in the course of last year at the Quarter Sessions, there being an increase of 3,000 persons above the preceding year. This might, however, be in a great degree accounted for by the fact that additional sessions had been held in many places in pursuance of a recommendation of the judges of assize. The questions he rose to ask were, whether the paid chairman who was to be appointed to preside was to have a concurrent jurisdiction with the magistrates, or was to be considered as the recorder now was in cities and boroughs, and whether appeals against orders of removal, &c., were to be tried in this court?
 Mr. Plumptre  did not rise for the purpose of offering any opposition to the introduction of the bill, which he was ready to say related to a subject of great importance, and might, perhaps, involve a great improvement in the law. He thought, however, that the question of the appointment of a paid barrister as presiding judge over these Courts, required much consideration. As far as his own experience of Quarter Sessions went, he must say that the law was well administered by the country gentlemen in the county, a part
 341
 Mr. Hume  asked if the effect of a strong current of air at the backs of the hon. Members would not be extremely disagreeable?
 Mr. Hume  would suggest to the hon. Member the propriety of making his return more comprehensive, as from the returns moved for, he would not be able to arrive at any conclusions. He would recommend him to add to his motion a return of the number of persons admitted at different periods into the workhouse, the periods of their continuing there, and also the number that had gone out in different periods.
 Mr. Wakley  expressed his opinion that many changes had been made with regard to the atmosphere of the House which were decidedly great improvements—the air being now almost as wholesome as any that could be produced. With respect to the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member relative to lighting the House, it might be an improvement, perhaps, upon the present system; but if the present cloth were to be removed from the floor of the House, and an oilcloth put down its place, great inconvenience would be the consequence, for all the arrangements respecting sound in that House had been made in reference to that cloth. He had prescribed very frequently upon this subject, and had, in fact, commenced his prescriptions very early in the present Session—but they had, on that occasion, been so very positively rejected by the noble Lord the Home Secretary—and by 656 other ungrateful patients, that he did not feel disposed to offer any on the present occasion. He considered, however, every part of the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member, except, perhaps, that relating to the manner of lighting the House, to be very bad.
 Mr. Blackstone  rose to move for a return of the number of union workhouses in England and Wales, used for the reception of parochial poor, since the passing of the new Poor-law Bill, specifying the parishes in which they are severally situate, and the number of parochial poor received into each; also the return of deaths which had taken place in each of such houses, specifying their ages and the causes of their decease. His object in moving for this return was, to direct the attention of the House to the mode of visiting workhouses, and to the dietary allowed in them. He was satisfied
 328
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, it was worthy of observation, that the Irish Members in the House were unanimous in support of this bill, some of the enactments of which were upon the model of what was already established in Ireland. He hoped that hon. Members would agree to copy still more the institutions of Ireland. Why not follow the example of Ireland, and give the court power to try cases of ejectment to the value of 50 l. 344
 Sir Charles Adam  said, that he also felt
 327
 Sir E. Codrington  regretted that any person in such a high station as the noble Lord who had attacked the naval officers elsewhere should indulge in such unjust and unfounded accusations. Some persons, however, were so much given to vituperation that they hardly knew or cared whom they attacked.
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  observed, that a more unwarrantable attack had never been made at any place or time, on any body of men, than that which had been made elsewhere a few nights ago on the naval officers employed on the coast of Africa; and he deeply regretted that such an unguarded attack had come from such a high quarter. Nothing could exceed the gallantry, zeal, and disinterestedness, of the officers employed on the coast of Africa, in the suppression of the slave trade, and he trusted they would be rewarded as they deserved.
 Sir Frederick Trench  begged to draw the attention of the House to a project which he was desirous to submit to the House for the abatement of a most annoying nuisance within the walls of Parliament. He had to offer an experiment for the better ventilation and lighting of that House, an object in which they were all interested as respected their comfort, their convenience, and their health. He had been given to understand that the project which had been tried for lighting the House by gas a short time since had failed, and that the whole of the expensive apparatus had been removed. A scientific
 330 l. 331 l.
 Sir F. Trench  said, that it would not he cold air. He proposed to remove the matting from the floor of the House also, in order to let the air escape more freely.
 Sir F. Trench  said he would prepare a plan, and lay it before Lord Duncannon.
 Captain Pechell  most cordially concurred with all that had fallen from the noble Lord. He begged to ask the noble Lord whether it was intended that the same judge should preside in the sheriffs' courts as at the Quarter Sessions? [Lord J.  Russell
 Captain Pechell , in reply, stated his sincere satisfaction at the manner in which the members of the Board of Admiralty had expressed their sentiments, and which would not fail of being most gratifying to the whole of the naval service. It would be very cheering to many of those whose relatives and connexions were now suffering on the pestilential coast of Africa. He held in his hand several letters of complaint from the widow, the wife, and the orphan of those who had fought and bled in the service. The honour of these officers was dear to them; many of them had no aristocratic influence to back them up; they had only their character, and the record of the number of captures, be they empty or be they loaded, to recommend them to the Admiralty for promotion; and it was hard upon them to have any censure cast upon them, and to have their claims disputed and set aside.
 Captain Pechell  did not think on any other occasion he had ever risen with so much anxiety as that with which he now presented himself to the notice of the House, as in undertaking the responsibility of defending the characters of so many brave and gallant officers he must naturally feel his own incompetence as their advocate; but as their cause had truth and justice on its side, be confidently relied on the sympathy of the House in the course he proposed to pursue. He should, therefore, at once state, that the object, of moving for certain returns relating to the slave trade, was to relieve the officers and seamen employed on the coast of Africa from the charge which had been made, of their having allowed sordid feelings and pecuniary motives to interfere with the discharge of their public and professional duties. And for this purpose he would confine his observations within those limits, and he would show that the officers and seamen had not merited the censure cast upon them; but on the contrary, that they had deserved well of their country. The right hon. Baronet opposite, now Member for Pembroke, appeared, by the shake of his head, to disapprove of what had just been said. He should have imagined that a late First Lord of the
 322
 Captain Pechell  said, the bare suspicion of an inclination of the head of a late First Lord of the Admiralty was an awful circumstance—as the conduct of many, officers serving during the right hon. Baronet's administration was now in question. The charge then complained of was, that in the suppression of the slave trade the Commanders of her Majesty's ships, with a view to their pecuniary interests, by their thirst for blood money, have permitted vessels to take in their cargoes of slaves instead of using their best endeavours to capture them before they entered the rivers on the coast of Africa,—in plain English, that her Majesty's ships had permitted the empty vessels to pass by unmolested, that they might afterwards bag them as a richer and fatter prize when returning loaded with slaves. This was a charge which the British Navy would not submit to, and which they threw back with indignation, and which he now repelled in as strong language as the usage of Parliament would permit,—the more so, as a cruel charge was wholly unnecessary to substantiate the case the noble and learned Lord desired to prove as to the necessity for suppressing that infamous and cruel traffic which all parties were so desirous to put down. The navy, therefore, consider the charge as a gratuitous insult; and though the noble Lord who presides at the head of naval affairs has most kindly and honourably vindicated the character of the profession in another place, yet it is desired that some expression of this House should be manifested in favour of those who feel they have been so cruelly treated. It will therefore be necessary to explain the circumstances under which the cruisers are placed on the coast of Africa, and to remind the House that until January 1836, when the last treaty with Spain reached that part of the world, no vessel under the Spanish flag (although in every way equipped and provisioned) could be detained lawfully unless slaves were actually on board—and that no vessel with the flag of Portugal (even at this moment), could be detained unless tinder similar circumstances; consequently the difficulty is
 323 l. 324 l. s. d. Gazette; 325 "The zeal of naval officers for the service had been much spoken of; these was a saying of Lord Thurlow, 'Far be it from me to utter anything against an officer in the public employ, either civil or military, for it will lay me open to hear his panegyric; no sooner was it said, that money was not without its charms, that the love of prize-money was kindred to the heart, than forth came a splendid panegyric on the exemplary character of the officers, that they were actuated only by noble feeling, that money had no power and no influence, and that nothing moved them but a sense of public duty; and the man who thought otherwise was designated as degraded and ignorant, and stupified, and had no knowledge of naval officers and naval duties." 326
 Sir James Graham  intimated, that he had not meant to express any dissent.
 The Attorney-General  merely rose for the purpose of answering the inquiries of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cockermouth. It was proposed to extend the operation of the court not merely to all cases of recovery of debts, but to all those cases which now might be decided in the county court. It was perfectly well known that the county courts, as now constituted, extended to almost all personal actions, and he hoped that all these actions would be brought before this court, where the damages did not exceed 10 l.
 The Attorney-General  said, it was intended that the business should be done in the same court.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to take notice of one statement made by the right rev. Prelate. It appeared from the paper alluded
 373
 The Attorney-General said,  he was glad the right hon. Gentleman had given him an opportunity of explaining. Before he asked for leave to bring in those bills they were drawn up; on obtaining leave he sent them to the printer, but from some circumstance or other, and to his very great surprise, for he had sent several times for them, they had not yet been received.
 Captain Jones  inquired whether the money to be raised under this clause by the boards of guardians, and which was to be applied, under the direction of the Commissioners, in conducting or assisting "the emigration of poor persons," was to be confined to particular unions or thrown into a general fund?
 Mr. O'Connell  opposed the clause, because he could not see what benefit they were likely to derive from such a system of emigration. It was calculated that the population of Ireland increased 50,000 every year; and even if they were to send out from it 50,000 emigrants annually,
 377 378
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that as the bill stood, a premium was given to those persons who refused to act as guardians without being paid; in other words, the guardians under the bill would be all paid officers, and it was material to bear in mind, that if the bill passed as it stood, these paid guardians would have it in their power to select whom they pleased for emigration, and send them out at the expense of the union.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished, that Irish Gentlemen would understand the importance of the point which they were now discussing. The effect of the clause would be to prevent, as much as possible, the Irish labourer from coming over to England
 382
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the only persons this clause would affect would be the thrifty, whose wages would be attachable in the hands of their employers. It would be introducing a new principle into Ireland never yet heard of, and would interfere with the diligent in favour of the unthrifty. In the bill of last year this clause was struck out. After all, too, it was not worth while for the Government to retain it. He thought it was calculated to do a great deal of mischief, and, therefore, the better way would be to leave it out of this Bill also.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought there was some difficulty in saying what was the meaning of the word "abscond" in this clause. It appeared to him that it must be interpreted to mean "not being within the workhouse." Now, if this were the case, the 56th clause would operate very harshly, for if a person was suspected to have brought himself under the penalties of the 63d clause, now under consideration, any justice of the peace might issue his warrant to apprehend him and bring him before himself or any other justice of the peace, to be dealt with as directed by the Act. What he would suggest would be, to let the guardians have the power of taking in part of the family, if they thought fit, and to do away with the liability of the parent.
 Mr. O'Connell  suggested the words, "who shall have absconded out of such workhouse," which he thought, would be sufficiently specific to prevent any mistake as to the vagrants referred to. It was not perhaps generally known to hon. Gentlemen that Mr. Bolingbroke, in making an abstract of the Irish statutes, when he came to the word "vagabond," said,  Vide
 Mr. Langdale  would, then, conclude with a motion, but he thought it extremely hard and painful to a Member if he were
 * 368 369 370 371
 Mr. Langdale  said, that he hoped the courtesy of the House would permit him to bring under their consideration a subject which principally related to himself. A report had appeared in the public press of what took place, he would not say where, in which his name had been mentioned—in which his conduct had been brought forward, and from which it would appear that he had attracted an amount of censure under which it was impossible that be should rest, without, at least, taking some notice of it. He trusted, under these circumstances, to the courtesy of the House to allow him to say a few words in his own defence and vindication, the more especially when the attack made upon him related to the regard he paid, or was supposed not to pay, to the solemn obligation of an oath. In the reported speech where the censure he referred to was pronounced against him, it was stated that the best criterion of the meaning and intention of the oath was to be collected from the  animus 366 animus animus "Another proposal has been made, by a right hon. Friend of mine (Mr. Wilmot Horton), made from the best motives, and supported with an ingenuity, ability, and research, worthy of the motives and of the character of its author. My right hon. Friend has proposed, with a view to calm the suspicions and fears of those who object to the admission of Roman Catholics to Parliament, that the Roman Catholic Member should be disqualified by law from voting on matters relating, directly or indirectly, to the interests of the Established Church. There appear to me numerous and cogent objections to this proposal. In the first place, it is dangerous to establish the precedent of limiting by law the discretion by which
 367 *
 Mr. Langdale : Of course. The hon. Member then moved that  The Morning Post 372
 Lord John Russell  admitted that, in stating his opinion of the Poor-law for Ireland introduced last year, he had not laid any great stress on the advantage which that country was likely to derive from a system of emigration. Indeed, he did not even now think that such an amount of emigration could be practically commanded as some hon. Members supposed was necessary for the regulation of the labour-market in Ireland. In defending the clause as it then stood, he did not intend to defend it on the ground that it would produce great emigration, and that that emigration would be of advantage to Ireland. He only meant to defend it on this ground, that in certain cases it might be useful, and to meet such a contingency it was fitting to give the means of assisting emigration to the board of guardians of the district, and to the commissioner combined. Indeed, he should be ready to alter the clause so as to limit the power of the commissioner to facilitate emigration to the cases of such poor persons only as were recommended by the guardians of districts, in which certain sums had been raised by the union for the express purpose of emigration. The noble Lord moved additional words to give effect to this opinion.
 Lord John Russell  said, that as a general rule, it certainly was intended that parents should not obtain relief for their children without coming into the workhouse themselves, if the guardians required it, but he saw nothing in this clause which would prevent the guardians, in a case such as that mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, from exercising a discretionary power.
 Lord John Russell  said, that last year this clause was, as he believed, not struck out, but only postponed for further consideration. He did not think that any great benefit would be derived from applying the clause to Ireland, although he was disposed to be favourable to the general principle it laid down, and therefore he was ready to postpone it for the present. He should certainly not think of pressing it, unless he found the general sense of the House was in its favour.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was intended to make important alterations in that clause with respect to the penalties.
 Lord John Russell  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend in thinking that there should be a law with respect to vagrancy in Ireland, and he had shown that such was his opinion by clauses which had been introduced into the present Bill; but he certainly considered that, whether such a law was passed now or at a future period, no good would result from it until the effects of the present Bill had been seen. He did not think that a vagrancy law would operate, unless the feelings of those who had to administer the law went along with it, and that was not likely to happen, until places were established where the really destitute might be provided for.
 Mr. Lynch  hoped the noble Lord would introduce a vagrancy law into Ireland, without which this Bill, which he considered as introducing a system of police, would be comparatively ineffectual.
 Mr. Lynch  supported the clause. As a general proposition he altogether repudiated the doctrine that emigration was remedially applicable to Ireland. There was no doubt great want of employment, but was there not also an immense tract of waste land to be cultivated? The great evil was the undue competition for land, and that he contended would be materially diminished by the effect of this Bill acting as a stimulus to the landlords and furnishing, as it would, important facilities for the employment of the poor. Thus there would be no great need for emigration. Still urgent cases might occur, and with respect to such he was willing to vest in the Commissioners the powers they would exercise under this clause. At the same time he was anxious to know precisely how the expense was to be borne—whether by the unions alone or partly only by the unions, partly by the public, and partly by the landlords, whose surplus tenantry it might be necessary to remove?
 Mr. Lucas  observed, that objections had been taken to the clause, which had been in no wise answered by the Government. If emigrants could be sent to the Canadas for 5 l. l.
 Sir E. Sugden  thought the expression "poor of the union" as it stood in the clause extremely ambiguous, particularly as there was no law of settlement in Ireland. He very much doubted whether it would be found to work beneficially.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said, it was his decided opinion that the clause, as it now stood, would make the parties liable to maintain their children, legitimate or illegitimate, and those of the wife. This was shown by the concluding words of the clause, which his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, had read, for those words made the husband or mother of the wife or child relieved "thereupon chargeable to the union in which such relief shall be given." That might be very well if the law of settlement were allowed; but the Bill did not allow any settlement, and yet the clause made a man or woman chargeable to the union in which relief had been given to their child. This construction was further proved by the penalties enacted in the 53rd clause.
 SIR E. Sugden  upon his legs, objected to
 380 381
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said, it was a very inconvenient practice to have bills which were not yet printed set down for second reading. He would take that opportunity of telling the hon. Gentleman (the Attorney-General) that he would decline serving on any Committee of which he was the guardian, and of requesting the hon. and learned Gentleman, whenever he should
 374
 Sir E. B. Sugden  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite a question relative to the Bills.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  replied, that it related to the five bills which the hon. Gentleman had on the orders of that day, which were marked down for second reading, although they were not yet printed. He wanted to know why?
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said, that he was in possession of the House, and wished to proceed.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said, that nevertheless he should withdraw all intention of saying another word on the subject then, reserving himself for another opportunity.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  felt bound to say a few words, in consequence of having been present when the right rev. Prelate made the observations alluded to. He could assure the hon. Member, from what he heard himself, that his impression was—that his own impression of the words was, that the expressions were used with marked and real courtesy towards the hon. Member. He must state that the hon. Gentleman had fallen—
 Sir E. B. Sugden  was glad to hear it, as it would improve it; but he contended that it would be a still greater improvement in the Bill to strike out the 49th and 50th clauses. They were not at all necessary to the working of the measure, and would prove injurious to it.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  had no objection to the liability of the father for relief given to the child, and if that were the only object of the clause he should withdraw his opposition.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord (J. Russell) to the wording of the first part of this clause, taken in connection with the 50th section. By that clause it was provided, that relief given to the wife or child should be considered as relief given to the husband or father. Now, the clause under discussion said, that if a person was relieved at the expense of any union, if he refused to be lodged, &c., he should be liable to be imprisoned for one calendar month. The noble Lord would see, therefore, that if a person were relieved in legal construction by relief being given to his wife or child, he would become liable to the penalties of this clause. He wanted, accordingly, to know whether it was the noble Lord's intention in every case to force a person into the workhouse, together with his wife and family. Suppose a labourer with his wife and three or four children, and one of them an incurable cripple. He did not see how, as the clause stood, the guardians could receive this child into the workhouse, without obliging the labourer also to come into the workhouse with his wife and the rest of his family.
 Sir E. B. Sugden,  under those circumstances, was not opposed to the substance of the clause.
 The Speaker  thought that there should be some substantive motion before the House. The hon. Member had thought it necessary to enter upon some explanation, which the House had consented to hear, but if the matter were to be prosecuted further, they ought to have some substantive motion before the House.
 The Speaker  asked the hon. Member if it was his intention to submit a motion to the House? He had not yet mentioned any, and it was extremely inconvenient, as there was no motion before the House, to proceed with a subject which might lead to a protracted debate.
 The Speaker  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was undoubtedly in possession of the House, but that if it pleased the House to prosecute the inquiry some substantive motion should be made.
 The Speaker : I suppose the hon. Member imputes falsehood to the arguments.
 Mr. J. Grattan  rose to move its omission from the Bill. He was convinced it would injure rather than assist the operation of the Bill. Emigration ought not to be carried on, if it were advisable to carry it on, by unions, guardians, or commissioners. For his own part he was more inclined to leave the labouring population of the country where they were, and engage them in the cultivation of waste lands—a course which he was sure would do more towards the furtherance of the measure than conferring such a power as this clause contained on guardians and commissioners. It empowered them to select any number of persons for emigration they pleased, and, in addition to the poor-rates, to tax the unions for the furtherance of that object. To that power he objected. He would not agree to give to the majority of guardians a power by which they might—he did not say they would—but by which they might contrive
 375
 Mr. J. Grattan  said, he still retained his first opinion. He thought the total omission of the clause a matter of so much importance that he must persist in dividing the Committee upon it.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  thought the clause, as modified by the amendment of the noble Lord (J. Russell), would be most beneficial.
 Mr. Woulfe  admitted, that there was no right of relief in the Bill, but relief  de facto
 Mr. Wyse  expressed himself strongly in favour of granting extensive encouragement to emigration. He could not see that any of the evils which some hon. Gentlemen seemed to dread were to be anticipated from such a measure. The apprehension that the vacuum caused by emigration in a particular district would be filled up by an influx of destitute persons from other parts of the country, or that the price of labour would be injuriously raised by it he regarded as groundless. He thought it would have the ultimate effect of improving and extending the cultivation of land, and that it would re-
 379
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  observed, that the Government had postponed the clause for the payment of the guardians with a very strong inclination, to all appearance, to alter that part of the bill agreeably to the opinions of the Irish Members.
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that he too had received a communication from the noble and learned Lord, together with a pamphlet, in which the expressions used were even stronger and more offensive than than those to which he had alluded last night. The pamphlet suggested the cases of officers of the navy looking for head-money to be similar to those of police constables who waited until a person had committed a crime before they attempted to take him, saying that he was "not heavy enough," when they might have prevented the offence, and that they must wait until he was "worth 40 l.
 Captain Pechell  said, that this House had always extended its indulgence to hon. Members who desired to explain any circumstances or any observations which they might have made, and he had now to call for their indulgence. He had received a communication that morning from a noble and learned Lord in the other House, who complained of certain observations which he had made on the previous evening in that House with reference to a motion he had made on the subject of the capture of slave vessels. Reports of what he had said had appeared that morning in the newspapers, and he had seen  The Times, The Morning Chronicle; 365
 The Attorney-General : If it had not been for the observations which had fallen from the Chair, he would wish to have said something with respect to that part of the right rev. Prelate's speech in which he had been referred to.
 The Attorney-General : Is it relative to the Bishop of Exeter? [A laugh, followed by cries of " Order.
 The Attorney-General  declared he had not the most distant notion of what the right hon. Gentleman's question referred to at the time. He regretted exceedingly that the right hon. and learned Gentleman could not consent to be a Member of the Committee; he hoped that when those bills should have received the consent of Queen, Lords, and Commons, the right hon. Gentleman would not on that account move that their operation be suspended for three months.
 The Attorney-General  begged to be permitted to say, that the speech of his to which the right rev. Prelate, the Bishop of Exeter alluded, had been delivered upwards of twelve months ago; and that if the right rev. Gentleman had any explanation to demand or complaint to make respecting it, he should have done so at an earlier period. What the right rev. Prelate stated was to him a matter of little concern, for he felt that his honour required no vindication or defence against that right rev. Gentleman's attacks.
 The Attorney-General  said, that if he thought the clause would have the effect stated by his right hon. and learned Friend, he should certainly oppose it also, because, as the Bill did not entitle to relief, it ought not to impose obligations such as his right hon. and learned Friend had referred to. But his learned Friend would see that the 49th and 50th clauses, taken together, meant only that this obligation should exist for the purposes of the Bill—that is, that where the mother was actually unable to support her children, or the children of her husband by a former marriage, and that they were relieved, she should be considered as in the same situation as if she herself had sought relief, and should go into the workhouse. Now, this was only for the purposes of the Bill. The same rule would apply to the husband, but it was only for the purposes of the Bill. He would certainly recommend to his noble Friend (Lord Morpeth) to omit that part of the clause which made the wife liable to the support of the children of her husband by a former wife. With this omission, the two clauses, taken together, were, he conceived, quite reasonable for the purposes of the Act. By the next (the 50th clause) it was declared, that the relief given under the Act to a wife or child should be considered to be given to the person declared by the Act to be liable to maintain such wife or child, and the said person should thereupon be deemed chargeable to the union in which such relief should be given.
 Sir R. Bateson  opposed the clause on account of the frightful expenses by which this system of emigration would be attended, and also on account of the frightful power with which it invested the commissioner and the board of guardians.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the right hon. Gentleman's object would be attained by the omission of the 53d clause, which the Government were prepared to allow.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that when he was called upon to vote for this clause, he must declare, that he entertained very strong doubts as to the advantages to be derived from any system of emigration, and he was very doubtful whether they ought to adopt a measure of emigration at all in any bill for the relief of the poor in Ireland. He hoped the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, would consent to postpone this clause, as the bill would go to Ireland with a very great obstacle in the way of its popularity, if it should show that the House was desirous of deporting the best men in the country.
 Viscount Howick : He hoped he might be permitted to say one word. [" Hear, No. Morning
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he would agree to the proposal of the noble Lord if it were not that he well knew that if the Government consented to withdraw the clause, the first thing they would hear from Ireland, would be, that they had withdrawn the only clause of the bill that was popular in that country.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it would be applied to the poor resident in the particular unions; but it was perfectly discretionary with the guardians to avail themselves of the power of this clause or not, as they thought best. It was not proposed to
 376
 Captain Wood  wished to state why he had not voted on this question the other night. He was of opinion, that the Secretary of the Admiralty had fully made out his case, and he had risen on that occasion to say so, but was not fortunate enough to attract the Speaker's notice. He did not, however, vote for the amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because he did not think it a constitutional mode of meeting the question. He might have been in error, but he understood that the orders in council had frequently before been laid on the table.
 Captain Gordon  observed, that every person in the navy was an admirer of the gallant services of Captain Napier. He did not approve of what was called pensions for meritorious services. He was sure that it must bring complaints from many officers. He wished to know whether the pensions were confined entirely to merit?
 Captain Deans Dundas  joined most cordially in praise of Captain Napier and his services, and expressed a hope that he, as well as the gallant Member for Westminster, might be created a Knight of the Bath, an honour he well deserved, and which would be most acceptable to the naval service. He begged also to express his approval at the announcement of a commission to inquire into the state of promotion and pay of the navy and marines, and that that commission would also embrace the service pensions of those old and meritorious officers the major-generals of marines; and whose cause, he hoped, would meet with consideration and justice.
 Captain Jones  said, that if the suggestions of the hon. Member for Kilkenny were adopted, it would prevent young men from entering the naval service.
 Captain Wemyss  could assure the House, that Lord Exmouth thought Captain Napier's services of the highest order, and it was, therefore, hard that Captain Napier should be put on the 150 l.
 Mr. Langdale  said, that there was a subject which had been scarcely alluded to in this discussion, but which he thought it was right to mention, namely, the subject of impressment. He would not go into any long argument on this subject, except to state, that as he was prepared to vote for the abolition of impressment, he felt bound to take into consideration the necessity of increasing our force in the proportion that we deprived the Government of the means of assembling that force when any emergency occurred. It was dangerous to reduce the naval force of the country to such an extent as to be unable to collect a sufficient force when the necessity for so doing occurred. He was, therefore, prepared to
 414
 Lord J. Russell  hoped the House would allow him to explain the circumstance alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, of a Member of that House connected with the Government having voted against it. Most undoubtedly if that right hon. Gentleman had spoken to him (Lord J. Russell) on the subject previous to the debate, he would have frankly told him his opinion—namely, that it was impossible for him while holding a situation under Government to act contrary to that Government. He knew nothing of that right hon. Gentleman's vote until after the division, when he (Lord John Russell) had been informed by him, that he had felt himself bound by something which had passed on a former occasion between
 394
 Lord John Russell  appeared at the bar and said, that her Majesty had taken into consideration the Address which was agreed to by her faithful Commons on the 27th of February last; and was desirous that the best means should be adopted for carrying the wishes of her faithful Commons into effect, with due regard for economy, and for the just claims of all the branches of her naval and military service. The noble Lord said, that in moving the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply, he thought it proper to state the course which her Majesty's Ministers had judged it fit to adopt with respect to the Address which had been agreed to by that House, and the answer from her Majesty which he had just communicated. Upon the
 388 389 390 "And, further, that his Majesty will be graciously pleased to direct that every possible saving that can be made, without detriment to the public interest, may be effected in those establishments which the country is bound to maintain for the safety of the United Kingdom, more especially in the military expenditure, and by a constant and vigilant superintendence over that and all the other departments connected with the expenditure of the supplies voted by this House." 391 392
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, before the House went into a Committee of Supply, he wished to call its attention to the appointments on the part of her Majesty's Government in various departments, more particularly to the recent appointment to the situation of Commissioner of Greenwich Hospital; secondly, to move that the number of Commissioners appointed in conformity to the act of 10th George 4th, cap. 25, entitled "An Act to provide for the better management of Greenwich Hospital," be forthwith reduced to four in the government of the affairs of the said hospital; and that the Commissioners shall be limited to the aforesaid number of four, and shall, together with the clerk of the works, and all officers of the said hospital, be selected from persons who have or may hereafter have served in his or her Majesty's navy; thirdly, to move the repeal of clause 7 of the act of the 10th of George 4th, cap. 25, entitled "An Act to provide for the better management of Greenwich Hospital," "And be it further enacted, that all officers who shall be hereafter appointed to any employment in the said hospital (except the future Commissioners of said hospital, and the clerk of the works), shall be selected, as far as may be, from persons who shall have served in his or her Majesty's navy," and to substitute the following words—viz., "that all such officers as shall be hereafter appointed to any employment in the said hospital, shall be selected from those persons who have already or may hereafter have served in his or her Majesty's navy." He was not about to enter into detail as to these appointments, as that would be interfering unnecessarily with the business of the house; but when he looked to India, to Ireland, to Canada, and, as was relevant to his motion, when he looked at the recent appointment of a Member of that hon. House to a Commissionership of Greenwich Hospital, he thought it would be well for the Government to inform the House if the gentlemen so appointed were likely to attend to their duty. It might be said, that this was an ungracious motion, and one interfering with the prerogative of the Crown; but he wished to
 398 399
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he had discharged his duty in bringing the subject under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, although there were many hon. Gentlemen who never before had the opportunity of discussing the estimates, yet the simple form in which they were now laid on the table, together with the full explanation which accompanied each item, would render it unnecessary for him to trouble the Committee at any great length. On going through the heads of the estimates, the Committee would observe that in No. 1, for men and wages, there was no difference. Under the head of victuals, there was a considerable increase arising from circumstances over which the Admiralty had no control—chiefly from the rise in price of several main articles of consumption in the navy. In the Admiralty-office, there was a slight increase of charge, one of the Lords of the Admiralty, from whom a house had been taken, being now put on the same footing as a Lord of the Treasury. Another increase arose from an improvement which they made last year in the situation of the clerks of the Admiralty. A clerk might, according to the former system, be seventy years in the service before attaining the  maximum l. l. 405 l. Nautical Almanack, Nautical Almanack 406 l. l., l. 407 l.
 Mr. C. Wood  observed, that it was undoubtedly true that he had not stated the reasons why it was deemed necessary by the Admiralty to keep up the present amount of force. But as the House had concurred for the two last years in thinking that that amount of force was necessary, and as some hon. Members had even stated, that in their opinion it was not even large enough, he had not deemed it necessary on this occasion to enter into such a statement. The same state of European affairs which had justified Ministers on a former occasion in proposing an increase of the naval force, remained at the present moment unchanged. He thought it would
 409
 Mr. C. Wood  wished to state the case clearly, as regarded the hospital. In the year 1829 an Act of Parliament was passed, placing the government of the hospital upon a perfectly new footing, and by the arrangements then made, the commissioners were to have nothing to do with the management of that establishment beyond what related to the care of its property. The question before the House lay within a very narrow compass; the Commissioners had nothing whatever to do with the pensioners; they had nothing to do requiring naval experience; their duties simply related to the property of the hospital. At the time that Sir John Cockburn's Bill was introduced, in 1829, there were twenty-two directors of Greenwich Hospital, of whom only five were naval officers, and seventeen had never in any other way been connected with the navy; in effect, the whole business of the establishment was managed by the treasurer, the auditor, and the secretary. This system was changed during the administration of the Duke of Wellington, in 1829, and the Government of that day got great credit for removing a body of irresponsible persons, and placing three responsible Commissioners in their stead. The hon. and gallant officer had very properly referred to the Act of 1829, but if he took the trouble to inquire into the general administration of the affairs of the hospital, the gallant officer would find that every thing which related to the inmates was, as far as possible, under the care and direction of naval officers; but the Commissioners, as he before said, had
 400
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he believed that we had not twenty-seven sail of the line afloat in the channel, but he doubted not that if the Russian fleet were to make their appearance there, we should be in a condition to meet them. With respect to the Mediterranean, he was inclined to think that the hon. Member had overrated the extent of the Russian fleet in the Mediterranean. He believed that they were only nine in number, and not sixteen. He believed that the British fleet on that station would be in a condition to meet the Russan whenever occasion offered.
 Mr. C. Wood  did not think it expedient to refer to particular cases; but that which had been last mentioned was the case of a gentleman who met with an accident while in the service of the customs. This he could, however, say for the Admiralty, that when the case was brought before them by the customs it would be attended to. He assured the hon. and gallant Admiral (Sir E. Codrington), who had repeated the cases of some officers which had been before mentioned by him, that the gallant Admiral was much mistaken if he thought that these cases had not attracted the attention of his hon. Friend and himself.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he did not rise for the purpose of entering into any lengthened discussion on the topics which had been adverted to by the noble Lord; but he was anxious not to lose this opportunity of expressing his concurrence in the principles which had been laid down by the noble Lord, and of tendering to the noble Lord his feeble authority, with a view to inculcate on the House the propriety of not interfering by votes of that description with the discretion of a Government as to the distribution of promotion and emoluments in the different branches of the public service. He held this to be above all the paramount duty of the Government, and he held it to be equally the paramount duty of the Government to bring into operation whatever influence they could exert within the walls of that House to carry into effect the principles which the noble Lord professed. The noble Lord must also give him leave to say, that if the Government, in the discussions which took place on questions of this nature, exhibited to the public symptoms of vacillation and uncertainty with regard to the course to be pursued, it was in vain for the noble Lord to call upon hon. Gentlemen, either on one side of the House or on the other, to support those principles which he advocated. When hon. Gentlemen saw in that House individuals closely connected with the Government voting against the Government upon questions of this description, the noble Lord might look in vain for that support which he and others on his side of the House
 393
 Mr. Hope Johnstone  referred to the gallant achievements performed by Captain Charles Napier, who had been in the service of the Queen of Portugal, and who had, he thought, some reason to complain of the manner in which his name and the services he had performed were introduced into the estimates. Captain Napier was an officer in her Britannic Majesty's service, and had a pension at the time that
 411
 Mr. Hume  should like to know how the service was carried on when they had 13,000 men less than they were now called upon to vote? He was as desirous as any man in that House to put an end to impressment, and, indeed, he might say, that very few had brought forward that question so often as he had. He was not one who would refuse encouragement to the sailor, on the contrary, he wished to see the discipline and pay such as to induce men voluntarily to enter the service. But would the extravagant vote proposed do any thing towards effecting this purpose? The House was called upon to vote for the service of the ensuing year 34,000 men, out of whom there were but 11,694 seamen; so that the whole naval force of England consisted in fact of 11,694 seamen. To what extent he would ask was this giving encouragement to the naval service? He would ask the House whether they were not in fact weakening themselves in keeping up a large establishment under the delusive idea of being always prepared to meet an enemy? The only effect of keeping up large establishments of this kind was to add to the half-pay list, thus encumbering the country, and preventing that House from paring down the establishments. He must complain of the manner in which promotion in the naval service was obtained. The public money ought not to be misapplied in the promotion of individuals who had nothing but their birth and connection to recommend them over the heads of more meritorious but less advantageously situated officers. He must, however, say, that it was not right to complain that justice was not done to the naval service, as the number of officers to seamen was altogether disproportioned. The number of officers was much too great. He saw no reason for voting 34,000 men, when in the six preceding years they had had but 26,000. The vote appeared to him extravagant, and he therefore felt bound to object to it.
 Mr. Hume  said, that having voted for the address on the 27th ult., he felt himself called upon, after the speech of the noble Lord, to offer some explanation to the House, the more particularly as the noble Lord had referred to the motion upon this subject of 1821. He was not disposed to challenge the rule which had been laid down on that side of the House, and supported by the other, respecting the necessity of hon. Gentlemen holding official situations under the Government giving to that Government their support; but he was disposed to challenge the right of the Government to recommend to her Majesty a course of manifest injustice. He referred the noble Lord to his speech of 1822. The noble Lord would there find that he (Mr. Hume) had on that occasion called the attention of the House to the services of the Royal Marines, as contrasted with those of the army. He then alleged that great partiality existed on the part of the Government respecting certain branches of the public service;
 395
 Mr. Hume  had hoped, that the Committee would have been in a situation to make a considerable reduction in the amount of these estimates this year, as the circumstances which had induced them last year and the year before to keep up a greater force in the Mediterranean and the Tagus than was usual had ceased to have any force. Some reason ought to be given why so large an increase had taken place lately in our naval expenditure. For his own part, he was not aware of any circumstance at that time existing in the world which justified an increase in the naval estimates. He recollected well that, in the year 1819, when he, in common with several of her Majesty's Ministers, sat on the Opposition benches, they had pressed the Government of Lord Castlereagh hard, because he proposed to employ for the service of that year 20,000 men, including marines and boys. They had told that noble Lord, that such an establishment was enormous and extravagant, and yet it was now quite evident that since that year they had been retrograding instead of proceeding in the career of reduction. In the year 1825, Sir G. Cockburn, a very efficient naval officer, had pleaded the disturbed state of the South American provinces as a reason for increasing our naval force, but had stated that as soon as those disturbances ceased, there could be no reason, at least he could
 408 l. l. materiel
 Mr. T. Attwood  wished to put two questions to the Secretary for the Admiralty, namely: first, whether our channel fleet was at present in a condition to meet twenty-six Russian line of battle ships, if they should make their appearance? and, secondly whether our Mediterranean fleet was in a condition to meet sixteen line of battle ships of the same power, in case we wished to pass through the Dardanelles?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not have risen but from what had been stated by the gallant Officer opposite, who well knew that the majority was not acting on that occasion in pursuance of the same opinion that had influenced him in abstaining from voting. He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Cambridge University, if it were possible for any individual to place the issue of a vote more distinctly upon an interference with the prerogative of the Crown, than he had done. He followed his hon. Friend, the Secretary for the Admiralty, in stating that it would establish a most fatal precedent of direct interference with the Royal prerogative in reference to naval and military affairs. He had asked the House to ascertain what had been done before they proceeded to vote upon the question, and it was in that sense only he had moved his amendment. The whole of the arguments of right hon. Gentlemen opposite, were founded on the principle that it was an undue interference with the prerogative of the Crown. If the House of Commons brought itself in contact with naval and military affairs, and happened to interfere improperly with the administration, depend upon it the time would come when they would be obliged to act upon the defensive. The hon. and gallant Officer was aware, that the majority had not been occasioned by his statement,
 397
 Mr. Gillon  thought, that the time of the House was wasted in discussing this particular point. He wished to call back the attention of the House to the real question before them. He could not understand why they should be called upon to vote 13,000 more men than during the profuse Tory administrations. Her Majesty, in her Speech from the Throne, declared that this country was on the most amicable footing with all foreign powers, and he therefore could see no reason for thus largely increasing our naval force. As he meant to propose several reductions of taxation, he felt bound to take every opportunity of putting it in the power of the Government to carry these reductions into effect.
 Admiral Adam  must, he said, join in the expression of the opinions entertained with respect to the services of Captain Napier. The Board of Admiralty thought it would have been a work of supererogation to put in the estimates the services of that gallant officer, which were known to all the navy. They put in merely so much as would satisfy the House of Commons that they were justified in going down so far in the list of post Captains as the name of Captain Napier. As they could not give him the out pension of Greenwich-Hospital, they wished to refer to facts which authorised them in giving him a pension. He referred to the names on the list, and he was sure it would be agreed upon all sides that they had acted with justice and fairness in placing them on the list. If they did not or had not acted with fairness in respect to this list, he hoped it would be stigmatised by the House of Commons. He was sorry to hear, from any one connected with the navy, that the present plan of pensions had created dissatisfaction. He heard of this for the first time. He wished to state that when officers had not an opportunity of performing a distinguished action they turned to see if he had not been eighteen years in command of a ship. The pensions which were submitted by the Admiralty had been prepared with great care and attention to the services of each, and he should be much surprised if they had not
 413
 Sir E. Codrington  said, that he, for one, thought the services of Captain Napier were such as fully to entitle him to be placed on the list; but there ought to be a statement of those services made, in order to put out of the question any jealousies that might otherwise arise.
 Sir E. Codrington  fully approved of the plan proposed by the noble Lord, and only regretted it had been postponed so long. He had frequently instanced cases in which certain officers had received for less than half the servitude more than double the remuneration given to much more distinguished and meritorious officers in her Majesty's navy. The proposed investigation, however, he was sure would lead to the desired result, that of doing equal justice to all. Before he sat down, he would take the liberty of correcting a misrepresentation contained in a weekly newspaper of what he said a few nights since, with reference to "head money." The paper had put these words into his mouth—"How dared the noble Lord utter such a falsehood!" He had never said one word of the sort. He believed no such words were imputed to him in any one of the daily newspapers, and it was rather gratuitous in a paper which had an opportunity of seeing all the others to publish so gross a misrepresentation.
 Sir E. Codrington  was understood to support the motion, and to contend that appointments of this nature should be bestowed as much as possible upon naval officers, the situations being peculiarly suited to them, and they to the situations.
 Sir E. Codrington  said that, at this time, when every other country in Europe was strengthening its navy, we were neglecting ours. Our navy was indeed most neglected, as he had frequently represented, but without his representations being much regarded. There were midshipmen and mates that had been thirty years in that situation. There was no class of men under the Government who did not retire from service with a greater amount of remuneration than the highest officers of her Majesty's navy. Such was the want of proper management, that if they wanted to-morrow to man five line-of-battle ships they would not be able to do it. The half-pay of a lieutenant was 5 s. s. d. d.
 Sir Thomas Troubridge  said, he thought that it would not by any means become naval officers having seats in that House to allow statements such as had been made against their characters to go forth to the public without contradiction—and he would say, that the charges which had been made against them were most unjustifiable. The speech of a certain noble and learned Lord he then held in his hand, published in the shape of a pamphlet, and, therefore, he should be out of order in alluding to it. The British navy wanted no defenders either in that House or elsewhere. At the same time it might be supposed that if they remained silent when these charges were made they acquiesced in what had been said. He, for one, did not acquiesce in any such thing, as the officers of the navy had done their duty in the most trying circumstances, as the returns which had been moved for would show. He rejoiced that those papers had been called for, as they would show not only that naval officers had done their duty, but that they had suffered very great expenses in doing that duty. The character of naval officers was safe in that House. With respect to his remarks on a former occasion on this subject, he had made them more in sorrow than in anger, and for the purpose of affording the noble and learned Lord who had made those charges the opportunity of making a further disclaimer of them, and which disclaimer he re-
 404
 Sir T. Troubridge  declared that he only spoke what were the feelings of his colleagues when he declared his willingness to acknowledge to their fullest extent the gallant services that had been performed by his personal friend Captain Napier. In the notice that was given in the estimates not the slightest disparagement to his gallant exploits were intended; and if Captain Napier's wishes had been earlier known, there could not have been the least possible objection to their being put in the estimates. In the case of Captain Napier, as well as that of others, they had adopted as their model the forms employed in the army. All that was intended to be done was, not to put on record all the services of an officer, but such as were sufficient to justify his being put upon the pension list. Withresp ct to Captain Napier, be wished to add, that he (Sir T. Troubridge) had received a severe reprimand from the late Sovereign for attending a meeting in the city to vote a piece of plate to Captain Napier, and he begged to thank the right hon. Baronet the Member for Pembroke (Sir James Graham) for the courteous manner in which he had communicated that reprimand to him, He could assure the hon. and gallant Individual who had been so much spoken of, that it was far from the wish of the Lords of the Admiralty to keep back from the world a knowledge of the gallantry and bravery he had always displayed. On the contrary, it was their desire to reward them, and to give them that praise to which they were most strictly entitled.
 Captain Pechell  said, there was not sufficient encouragement in the navy. There were 363 midshipmen as they were formerly called, but they were now called mates. The first three were forty-one years of
 410 l. s. d. l. l. s. l. l.
 Captain Pechell  took occasion to express a hope that means would be taken to provide swifter ships as cruisers after slavers; and that the captains of the British service should no longer be liable to see a slaver before them and not be able to capture her. An instance of the latter kind he remembered, wherein a ten-gun vessel, after giving chase for two days to a slaver without being able to overtake her, would have had to give up the pursuit altogether in despair, the slaver having got out of sight, when she fell in with another ship, named the Columbine, to whom she pointed out the track of the slaver, and who then pursued and overtook her. It was impossible that the slave trade could be successfully put down until this defect was remedied, and the ten-gun ships now employed in the service, condemned to the same fate as the slavers themselves, namely, sawed in two and pulled asunder.
 Captain Pechell  was sorry to detain the Speaker in the Chair a moment longer than was necessary, but the fact was, that the press had stated much that was, not said in that House on a former evening, and left out much that ought to have been inserted, with regard to the honour and character of naval men. The hon. Member then alluded to what was said the other night relative to officers of the navy taking head-money for captured slaves, &c., and said that, so far from officers in that service refraining from taking slave-ships before they should have got their cargo of slaves on board, he himself had frequently known the contrary to be the case, and had been witness of the contrary during the American war. He might mention among many others the names of the gallant Sir Hyde Parker and Captain Broke of the Shannon, who, in keeping up the blockade of Boston, lost a great amount of money by burning and sinking ships which they might have allowed to have sailed, and attacked when their cargoes were on board. It was not, then, fair that these charges about head-money and blood-money should be allowed to go before the public uncontradicted. He knew that officers appointed to this particular service exerted themselves to the utmost. This country had entered into a treaty with the Spanish Government upon the subject of the slave-trade, but it was not that Government only that was to be
 403
 Captain Pechell  could not follow in the wake of the gallant Admiral who last addressed the House, neither could he support the motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln. Not that he doubted the perfect fitness of naval officers for any situation, even that of Lord High Chancellor of England. He had heard from the highest authority, that a natal officer might be Lord High Chancellor of England; it was no wonder that indignation should be felt at the non-appointment of naval officers to situations of this description when cornets of dragoons, as happened in 1235, were found filling the situations of lay-Lords of the Admiralty. Still he could not support the present motion. If the hon. and gallant mover were sincere in the wish to reform these abuses, he ought to proceed upon a broader principle; he ought not to apply himself to a single case, but to propose a total repeal of the Act of Parliament. For his part, he should vote against any Government in a matter that concerned the interests of the navy or marines, but the proper way to meet the evil was not by interfering in isolated cases with the patronage of the Crown.
 Sir J. Duke  trusted that the Admiralty would take into their consideration some measure to improve the pay and condition of the petty officers before the mast. He complained of the inequality of the pay as compared with the service.
 Sir R. Peel  rose to put a question to the noble Lord opposite on the subject of the Java Duties. The parties most interested in the question traded from the out-ports of this country with Java. These duties in which both the merchants of this country and the East India Company felt much interest, were levied in a manner contrary to the letter and spirit of our treaty with Holland on the subject. The noble Lord opposite some time ago said, that he soon expected to have a communication to make to the House relative to it; he wished now, therefore, to know whether her Majesty's Government were prepared to afford any information whether any satisfactory arrangement had been made with the Dutch Government, or whether there existed any prospect of such a result.
 Sir R. Peel  thought a proceeding of this sort amounted to an interference with the prerogative of the Crown, which he did not feel disposed to sanction. His hon. Friend found fault with the qualifications of the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, and he proposed that the House of
 401
 Viscount Palmerston  said, the Dutch Government had engaged to issue a tariff in conformity with the stipulations of the treaty. Such a treaty he understood had been published in Java, and he was in daily expectation of an official communication on the subject from the British Minister at the Hague. In the mean time, having received a copy of that document from a private source, he believed he might say it would be found in some respects satisfactory, in others not. The right hon. Baronet was aware that the stipulations of the treaty made the difference of duties
 402
 Lord Stanley  said, that he had risen earlier in the course of this debate than otherwise he should have been desirous of doing, in consequence of some observations which had fallen from his right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Labouchere), and which more immediately pointed at measures which he, in his public capacity, had introduced. He felt, therefore, that this was an opportunity which he ought not to pass by, of setting his right hon. Friend right. But, in the first place, he would take the opportunity of observing upon the remark made by his right hon. Friend, that at length the veil of mystery which had so long shrouded the operations of hon. Gentlemen on the opposition side of the House had been cast aside, that at length the course of policy which they had determined to follow had been exposed to view, and that having previously concealed in the most scrupulous manner every indication of their intentions, they had at length explained their objects, and developed their designs. His right hon. Friend seemed to charge Members on the opposition side of the House, with a project for taking the Government by surprise in introducing the amendment which his noble Friend had proposed. [ "No, no." 544 545 546 547 548 549 550 551 552 553 554 555 556 557 558 559 560 561 562 563 564
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that as the veil of mystery which had lately hung over the designs of hon. Gentlemen opposite had now been, by the amendment of the noble Lord who had just sat down, drawn aside, and as it was apparent that the great and powerful party arrayed on the benches opposite were ready to bring to issue the question, whether or not, with reference to the colonial and other affairs of this great empire, it was desirable, for the interests of the country, that the present Government should be removed from the seat of power—as that was now manifestly the subject of the debate of this night, he trusted, that the sense of justice which in any time of party excitement had ever distinguished the House, would induce it to lend a patient hearing even to one of the humblest Members of that Administration. He (Mr. Labouchere) had not the honour to hold that station in the councils of her Majesty which could entitle him to lay claim to any share of the responsibility of the colonial policy, but so far as giving his cordial approbation to that policy in all its main features—so far as he was able to take his share in that responsibility, he
 538 "No, no!" 539 540 motos componere fluctus. 541 542 543
 Mr. Hall  was anxious to take that early opportunity of stating the reasons on which he should ground his vote on the present occasion. In reference to what had fallen from the noble Lord who had just sat down, he considered it right for his own justification to state, that he did not agree in many respects with the Government in the administration of colonial affairs, and he certainly could not agree with the noble Lord that their conduct towards Canada was in any degree the brightest gem in their colonial policy. He condemned that policy, and disapproved of the course which Government had adopted towards that country. With respect to the question before the House, he could not help regretting that his hon. Friend had not taken the course which he generally adopted, of meeting every matter in the most open, manly, and straightforward manner. In levelling an attack against his noble Friend at the head of the Colonial Department the hon. Baronet had taken, if not an unjust, at least an ungenerous course. The noble Lord was merely a part of the present Government; his conduct was sanctioned by his colleagues, and, if censure was applicable to one, it equally applied to the whole of the Ministry; and the motion, instead of being directed against an individual, should have been framed so as to include all those who were parties to that policy which his hon. Friend desired to censure. In
 525 526
 Sir Charles Grey,  who was very imperfectly heard throughout the whole of his speech, commenced by saying, that he thought he should be doing great injustice to the Government, and great injustice also to himself, if he were to put himself forward to answer so experienced and able a debater as the noble Lord who had just sat down. Indeed, with so recent a claim to partake in the debates of the House, he should hardly have presumed to share at all in the present discussion, if it were not well known that he had to a considerable extent been connected with the affairs out of which the motion of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Leeds, had arisen. Looking at the nature of that motion, and seeing how directly it was levelled against Lord Glenelg, he was most anxious that those who knew how many opportunities he had had of observing that noble Lord's conduct, and of learning his opinions and disposition upon Canadian affairs, should not lie under any mistake as to the conclusions which he (Sir Charles Grey) had formed upon the subject. Therefore, feeling himself called upon at all events to take some part in the debate of the evening, he must account for his taking that particular moment for
 565 566 567 568 569 verbatim, 570 571
 Sir William Molesworth : * * 477 478 479 480 481 482 483 484 485 486 487 488 489 490 491 492 l. l. l., 493 494 495 496 497 498 "nil!" 499 500 "The undersigned conductor and chief of the united encampments hereby humbly sheweth, that as subjects of the British Government we, in our depressed circumstances, repeatedly represented our grievances to his Majesty's Government, but in consequence of finding all our efforts to obtain redress fruitless, we at length resolved to abandon the land of our birth, to avoid making ourselves guilty of any act which might be construed into strife against our own Government; that this abandonment of our country has occasioned us incalculable losses; but that, notwithstanding all this, we cherish no animosity towards the English nation. That, in accordance with this feeling, commerce between us and the British merchants, will, on our part, be freely entered into and encouraged, with the understanding, however, that we are acknowledged as a free and independent people." 501 "It gives satisfaction to neither party on the frontier; the colonists complain that Government affords them neither protection nor redress, that they are always insecure and always sufferers; the Caffres, on the other hand, represent the whole system as founded on false principles, and stained with injustice and cruelty to them; and the impartial observer soon becomes satisfied that both parties have ground for discontent and alarm." 502 503 l. 504 505 506 507 508 509 510 511 512
 Viscount Palmerston  could not say he rose, on the present occasion, with any reluctance, for he rose to vindicate an absent Friend from an unjust and ungenerous attack, and to defend the Government of which he was a Member, from an unfounded and unmerited censure. He rose to defend the Government, because, although the hon. Baronet had chosen to select one Member of the Administration as a peg on which to hang that which was really and substantially an attack on the Government at large, it was as an attack on the Government that he must consider and should meet the hon. Baronet's motion. They must speak in that House plain English; they must give things their real names, and he would not accept the motion as an attack on one Member of the Government—he would deal with it as an attack on the Government as a whole. According to the constitution of this country, the Government was not an aggregation of separate departments; it was well known that the leading measures of every department were submitted to the consideration of the Cabinet, and that the Cabinet was responsible in its joint capacity for all the great outlines of the measures of each department, although the execution of those measures might rest with particular heads of the departments concerned. It was, therefore, as an attack on the Government that he meant to meet and dispose of this motion. He did not at all complain of this attack, nor even of the course which the hon. Baronet had pursued, as inconsistent with the principles of the constitution and Parliamentary practice. It was undoubtedly competent for any person feeling no confidence in the existing Government to call on that House to affirm and support his opinion; but in one respect, at least the hon. Baronet had produced
 513 514 515 516 517 518 519 Cheers. 520 521 522 523 524
 Viscount Sandon  said, that the hon. Baronet, in the observations he had addressed to the House had certainly not taken the course that he had expected. He had expected that, considering the anxious attention lately attracted to our North American colonies, considering that that part alone of our colonial empire could justify the terms of the hon. Baronet's motion, the attention of the House would have been more particularly called to the policy which the Administration had adopted with respect to the affairs of those possessions. Instead of taking this course, however, the
 527 528 529 Cheers. 530 531 532 533 534 535 536 537
 Mr. Hobhouse  was understood to say that he trusted that the House would extend its Indulgence to him while he addressed some observations to it. He could not vote for either the original motion or the amendment. The substantive matter of the motion, as well as the amendment, was directed against the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Colonies—a man who, for several years, had devoted all his exertions and talents to the public service. It had been said an attack would he made on the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department; but there was a good reason why this course was not taken. The head of the latter department was in that House; while the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office was not there to defend himself, but it was supposed that his defence must be left to the subordinate members of the department. The noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, however, had at once come forward to the defence of his noble colleague, and when hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared disposed to censure that noble Lord for doing so, he (Mr. Hobhouse) felt disposed to retaliate the charge against them for bringing forward accusations in the present shape against one whom hey knew could not be present to defend himself. They had been told, that there was no material difference whether the Treasury benches were occupied by hon. Gentlemen opposite or by those who at present filled them. There appeared, however, to him a most material difference between the measures, the spirit, and policy which governed the actions of Gentlemen on that, and hon. Members on the other, side of the House. It might be that they were agreed on some things which were of comparatively minor importance; but on all great questions there was a wide ground of distinction between them. It might be said, that many on his side of the House objected to any further immediate change in the constitution of Parliament; but he would ask had they ever shown themselves to be the supporters and advocates of a system of misgovernment in Ireland? Had they ever endeavoured to counteract the progress of civil and religious liberty either in this country or Ireland. He was not surprised that his hon. Friend, the Member for Westminster, had avoided the constitutional part of the question; and there might have been a better reason for his silence than the fear of tiring the House.
 580 581 582
 Mr. Roebuck  proceeded to discuss the situation of Canada previous to its connexion with this country; he says—
 "When, by the fortune of war, and by the political schemes of Europe, this province became subject to England, its situation could not entitle it to be the envied country it now is. Groaning beneath the iron scourge of military despotism, and the no less rigorous, though less palpable, dominion of the church, she seemed doomed for ever to the oppressive burthens of bigotry and rapine. From this state England rescued us; broke these bonds asunder, and annihilated, at once and for ever, this system of oppression; for the lawless dominion of a military commander she gave us the mild and regular administration of her own laws, and for the capricious dictates of the grand monarque, her own unrivalled Constitution." "A glance at our history for some years past will enable us better to understand our present situation. By it we shall see the generosity of England towards us; how each act of beneficence rose one above the other, showing at once the noble spirit of the mother country, and the high estimation in which she held those distant colonies." 602 603 604 "Our force was great because it was so small, 'Twould have been greater were it none at all." "There are still graver matters which have been made the grounds of petition to his Majesty, and respecting which the Commissioners are not precluded from entering into an inquiry. But it would be painful to speak here of dissensions between the two Legislative bodies whom I address, or to recapitulate the faults which have been found with the Constitution of either body by the other." 605
 Lord Stanley  hoped the House would forgive him if he intruded for a moment to offer a very few words in the way of explanation. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was mistaken: he was sure the House must perceive, that the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken in asserting that the charge which he had made against the right hon. Gentleman was, that with his administration of colonial affairs had commenced the difficulties of Canada. So far from saying so, he (Lord Stanley) distinctly stated, in answer to the noble Lord (Palmerston) who sat opposite, and to his right hon. Friend, whom he did not then see in his place, that the difficulties and embarrassments of Canada were of much longer standing; but that the course of hesitation, and the uncertainty of policy which the Government thought fit to pursue with respect to that province, did undoubtedly commence with the administration of colonial affairs by the right hon. Gentleman; and with the
 644 "Order, order!
 Lord John Russell : spoke to the following effect:—Rejoiced as I am, Sir, that we have now a direct vote of censure on the conduct of the Government pro-
 670 671 672 Cheers. 673 674 675 l., 676 * * 677 678 679 680 681 682 683 media scientia, 684
 Mr. Litton  would not have presumed to trespass on the attention of the House if it had not been for the assertion made by the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, who opened the debate on behalf of the Government, and by the hon. Member for Marylebone, with respect to the state of Ireland. He thought that as an Irish Member, he should not be doing his duty if he did not protest against that statement, and if he suffered it to pass uncontradicted, and to go forth to
 584 585 586
 Mr. Rich  contended, that the question which was at the bottom of the noble Lord's (Lord Sandon's) motion, and which was the real question at issue on the present occasion, was the substitution of a Tory for a Reform Government. Let the noble Lord declare what was the ground of his cut-and-dry amendment. The matter for their consideration was not the trumpery question of Canada—trumpery, because it had already been settled. Let not the noble Lord then open his masked battery under such a question as that. He would ask what principle prompted the motion; he would not say that its
 593 594 595 596 597
 Mr. Tancred  said, he should oppose both the motion and the amendment. He could not but think the motion against Lord Glenelg a most invidious proceeding, distinguished as he was in the highest degree alike for his mental and moral character. He contended that, even if the Government had erred in its policy towards the Canadas, it had erred from the beneficent intention of doing good. He must say, that there had been a fundamental error committed in our original policy towards that province; and that was, in permitting them to retain their own laws and their own language. The consequence had been, that the French Canadians had remained a distinct nation. They had remained stationary, whilst the settlers of British race had been constantly progressing. He believed, that it was on that very account that the French Canadians wished for separation. They found themselves out-stripped by the settlers of British descent, and therefore they wished to deprive their British brethren of that ascendancy to which they were entitled from their superiority of mind and energy. The French Canadians were described by every person who had had communication with them, as a race of men singularly kind and courteous; but they were also described by all travellers with the same unanimity, as a race of men so lamentably ignorant and prejudiced that their very religion had degenerated into the grossest superstition. He was informed upon good authority, that it was not on account of any attachment which they felt to an elective council that they were
 591 ad libitum 592
 Mr. Warburton  regretted many of the observations that had fallen from his hon. Friends, the Members for Leeds and Westminster. He could not give his support to the original motion of his hon. Friend, and still less to the amendment proposed by the noble Lord opposite. He regretted that his hon. Friend, in the censure he had passed on the general system of colonial government, had pursued such a course as to mix up with it matters which were nothing more nor less than party politics. He regretted, that his hon. Friend had dwelt altogether on the alleged defects of an individual, instead of directing his argument against the system. When Mr. Burke wished to call the attention of Parliament to his scheme of financial reform, he did not commence by criminating any particular individual, or by mixing up party politics with his plan of reform; he pointed out the defects of the existing system, and endeavoured to induce that House to adopt an improved system. He agreed that there were many glaring defects in the administration of several of our principal colonies, but if he wished to lead the House to adopt an improved plan of government, and to abandon a system which was open to such well-founded attacks, he would not commence with criminating a Minister in order to induce a large party in that House to vote with him. He, therefore, could not agree in the course taken by his hon. Friend, who generally acted with those with whom he voted, namely, what was called the Radical party, who should not have brought forward the subject, inviting, as it did, an attack on the system,
 583
 The Speaker : Does the hon. Member really mean to impute any such motives as those to any hon. Member of this House?
 Mr. Dunlop  would not follow the hon. Gentleman into the debate on the state of Ireland, which had nothing to do with the subject before the House. The House was already pledged by many divisions to the general policy of Government, and he did not think that they would at once transfer their confidence to a Government which would pursue a directly opposite course to that which they now approved of. In reference to Canada, at the period of the outbreak, it was well known that up to that period no cause had existed to justify Government in sending out more troops. A noble Lord had last night said that care should have been taken to provide such a number of regular troops as to render unnecessary the employment of the militia and volunteers; but the very circumstances of the employment of these militia and volunteers showed that Government considered, that the maintenance of the constitution and of the laws of the land were best intrusted to the deeply-rooted feeling of a people who knew that the constitution under which they lived was the constitution best calculated to promote their happiness and prosperity. It was the great principle of the present Government that the strength of the Throne was most firmly based in the affections of the people, and it was because he wished to retain in office a Ministry holding such principles that he must oppose both the motion of the hon. Baronet and the amendment of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Leader  wished to offer a few observations on the subject, and he should occupy the attention of the House only for a few minutes, as he was incapable, from illness, of making a speech of any length. In the consideration of the motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir W.
 572 573 574 575 576 ad misericordiam; 577 578
 Mr. Dillon Browne  would not follow the discursive speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, which, if the House had seen in print, they might suppose that the  Hue and Cry 589 "I hear a lion in the lobby roar; Pray, Mr. Speaker, shall I bar the door? Or rather shall I let the lion in, That we may try to turn him out again." 590
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concluded, that as the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken charged the Government with forbearance, and a reluctance to have recourse to force, the system according to which he would govern Canada was one of coercion. There was always a great satisfaction in rising after the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), for however widely he might differ in opinion from the Government, not one word escaped from his lips calculated to give pain, or to infuse
 635 Loud Laughter. 636 637 Cheers. 638 Cheers. 639 l. 640 No, no! 641 642 643 l.
 Mr. Gladstone  said, his hon. Friend, the Under Secretary for the Colonies had found it convenient in the course of his ingenious and powerful speech to devote one portion of it to travelling very far from the limits of the question. And although he must admit, that his hon. Friend had not evaded the argument of colonial policy, but had grappled with it in the best manner in which it could be met, yet he had reserved for his climax an appeal to those general principles of party which was generally sufficient to raise a feeling in favour of the side whence it came, and to disguise the weakness of the case they had to present. His hon. Friend seemed to have thought that he had made out a triumphant case as far as New Brunswick was concerned; and most triumphant it certainly was, inasmuch as that colony had not been touched upon in the last disturbances, except incidentally. He must say, that he had been astonished at some of his hon. Friend's observations. His hon. Friend had adverted to the compulsion under which the Members of the Opposition had felt themselves of joining in the motion of the hon. Baronet, but he would assert, that the whole course of it lay in the misconduct of the Government. It was his deliberate opinion that his conscience would not be acquitted if he suffered the conduct of Ministers with respect to Canada to go on unnoticed, or if he rescinded his opinion on that subject. Much had been said as to the motion having been left until so long a time after the discussion about Canada, but in his opinion there was no point connected with it more defensible than the time at which it was brought forward. What would the hon. Gentlemen on the benches opposite have said if it had been introduced at the very time that rebellion was going on? Had that been the case, those sitting on the Opposition side of the House would have been told, that they wished to profit by public confusion, regardless of public peace and of the sacrifice of human life, impelled by an eagerness for office which
 627 628 629 630 de die in diem 631 632 633 634
 Mr. Praed  said, that the hon. Member had commenced his speech with the oft-told tale, that he would trespass very shortly upon the attention of the House—as to how the hon. Gentleman had kept his word he would leave to the sense of the House to determine. In the wide and discursive range which the hon. Member had taken he had referred to many subjects. He had quoted from the speeches of Mr. Hunt, and had talked of the King's visit to the City, and of the visit of the right hon. Baronet to Rome; and, furthermore, the hon. Gentleman had touched upon every topic connected with the foreign and domestic policy of the country for the last seven years. The hon. Gentleman had commenced his speech by an allusion to what had taken place in the former part of the debate, and he had characterised the amendment of his noble Friend as "a cut-and-dry" amendment. With a very lavish exercise of his powers the hon. Gentleman poured out upon this point a flood of ridicule. Why, then, was there anything very extraordinary that upon a question, notice of which had been for a considerable time before the House—upon a question which had been much canvassed and considered, and which had excited considerable attention—was it indeed to say extraordinary, that upon a question of this kind his noble Friend should have thought fit to prepare an amendment calculated to meet the views which he entertained with respect to the course that ought to be taken on that occasion? For his part, he entertained so much toleration for "cut-and-dry" amendments that he was ready to go the dangerous length of extending that toleration to "cut-and-dry" speeches. He was anxious to avail himself of the present opportunity to state his reasons for the course which he intended to take on the present occasion. When he first saw the motion of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Leeds, as it stood on the paper, he certainly felt, that however he
 598 599 600 601 "The wisdom of a government is marked by the happiness of its subjects. Where, in the place of tyranny, there is an equal distribution of law—where, in the place of poverty, plenty equally diffused—the people cannot be said to be unhappy, nor the government oppressive. Such is the present situation of Canada."
 Sir F. Trench  said, he had not imputed such motives to the hon. and learned Gentleman. What he said was, that the tendency of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman was to encourage the Catholics of Ireland to assassinate the Protestant clergymen; for what said the hon. and learned Gentleman in the speech to which he alluded? He talked of having lately visited Ireland, where he found a generous and hospitable people; and then he reverted to Scotland, where, as he said, the people wore long swords and knew how to use them; and went on to say, that the murder of Archbishop Sharpe had not been considered a murder, because he was a dignified prelate of a church hostile to the feelings and habits of the people. The people of Ireland were a high-minded and enthusiastic but ignorant race, and living as they did under a religious dis-
 588 The Hue and Cry
 Sir F. Trench  entirely differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, relative to the propriety of employing volunteers in putting down a revolt or insurrection. That was always much
 587
 Sir George Grey  wished, before he entered into the topics which had been referred to by the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, to make one allusion to that motion, which had given occasion to the debate, and to the amendment of his noble Friend, the Member for Liverpool. The motion of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Leeds, was almost forgotten, though the noble Lord had taken the hon. Baronet under his patronage, and without, of course, any previous concert, or any design to win the hon. Baronet's support. The hon. Member for Aylesbury declared that he was willing to vote for the motion, wholly uncalled for, unjust and ungenerous as it was; and only refrained from doing so because he preferred the amendment of the noble Lord, the Member for Liverpool. He thought that he should do gross injustice to Lord Glenelg, under whom be had now the honour and the satisfaction of serving for the three last years, if he followed the hon. Baronet, the Member for Leeds, through the long course of his rambles all over the globe to find materials for attacking Lord Glenelg. The hon. Baronet had not only travelled over the whole globe, he had given several notices of his intended motion, as so many advertisements for the collection of grievances from all quarters to help him in making
 606 The Morning Post 607 608 609 610 611 l., 612 "So great, indeed, will be the powers remaining to the Assembly, that doubts have been suggested whether the alteration of the 1st and 2nd William 4th, c. 23, though it may abate the immediate difficulties of the province, will be of any permanent avail. In this point of view it is observed, that the Assembly may continue its war upon the coordinate branches of the legislature with more violence than ever; that the resumption of the duties under the 14th George 3rd, c. 88, will only restore the government to the same position in which it maintained an unsuccessful conflict with the Assembly in former years; and therefore that it would be better at once to advance a step further, and suspend the Constitutional Act of 1791, for a limited number of years. However startling the proposal, it is said that many arguments may be adduced in its support; that not only it will be more decisive, but that, being more evidently based on the difficulty of working the free institutions of Great Britain, in a country disturbed by the jealousies of a divided population, the proceeding would be less offensive to the
 613 "We cannot, however, undertake to recommend such a plan. Independently of the general objections to any course which would be not merely unpopular, but utterly unconceived by the community at large before its adoption; of which, therefore, neither the advantages nor the defects have been exposed by the light of public discussion, nor the extent of probable opposition to it indicated, we shrink from the measure on a view of its own merits." "I join in the main recommendation of the report, namely, that, as an immediate measure, recourse must be had to a suspension or alteration of the 1st and 2nd William 4th, c. 23; and I do so because, while I think the demands of the Assembly cannot be complied with, I know no way by which the means of paying the public servants and of carrying on the government can be procured, except by the resumption of the revenues of the 14th George the 3rd, unless, indeed, the Imperial Parliament should be disposed to furnish the money, which I think very improbable, or that it be determined at once to suspend the Constitutional Act of 1791. This latter course is one which I cannot take upon myself the responsibility of advising, though in some respects I think it would be hardly more objectionable than the suspension of the Act of William the 4th, whilst it would unquestionably be more efficacious. I am, indeed, very far from regarding the resumption of the revenues of the 14th George the 3rd as a safe, easy, or efficacious, measure; and it is only with the greatest reluctance that I can contemplate a course of proceeding which will take from the representatives of the people their now acknowledged privilege of disposing of all moneys raised within the province by taxation. The Assembly, by the suspension of the Act 1 and 2 William the 4th, will be deprived, it is true, of a portion of its power, but it will still remain in possession of ample means of thwarting the
 614 615 mandamus 616 617 J. Graham: 618 619 "London, October, 1836. "My Lord,—After the highly satisfactory conclusion of our negotiations with your Lordship, it would be ungrateful in us not to record, on behalf of the loyal people of New Brunswick, our sincere and hearty thanks to our most gracious Sovereign for that paternal solicitude for their welfare so clearly mani-
 620 "We would also, on the same behalf, convey our most grateful acknowledgments to his Majesty's Government in general, for the liberal and enlightened policy which has characterised their decisions upon the various subjects which we have had the honour to bring to their notice, and to your Lordship in particular, for the attention and consideration which your Lordship has invariably bestowed upon our representations. "If the principles involved in your Lordship's recent instructions to the Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick be carried out in practice according to their obvious spirit and intent, we have good reason to hope that ere long their beneficial effects will be seen in the general diffusion of contentment and prosperity throughout the province, in the rapid development of our resources, and in our stronger and more inseparable attachment to the land and government of our fathers. "That these cheering anticipations may be fully realised, and that his Majesty's devoted subjects in New Brunswick may ever gratefully remember under whose auspices and instrumentality their destiny has been improved, is the heartfelt desire of, "My Lord, yours, &c., (Signed) "WILLIAM CRANE. "L. A. WILMOT. "To the Lord Glenelg, &., &c." The conduct, then, of his noble Friend, acting on the part of her Majesty's Government, with respect to the great questions which were at that time agitated, led to the complete settlement of those differences which were left untouched by the able men who were endued with so much wisdom, forethought, and judgment, and who previously filled the office now occupied by his noble Friend. These eminent persons had failed in attaining so desirable an object, not from wilful abuse of their duties, but through that neglect and want of attention now so readily charged upon the present Colonial Secretary. In December, 1836, certain resolutions were passed in New Brunswick, and transmitted to this country. They were agreed to without a dissentient voice, and were equally satisfactory and complimentary to the acts of the Government. "December 26, 1836. "Resolved, That this House entertain a high sense of the attention shown by the Right Honourable Lord Glenelg, his Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, to the deputation during the progress of the
 621 "December 28, 1836. "Resolved, unanimously, as the opinion of this committee, That the dispatches of the Right Honourable Lord Glenelg, containing the determination of his Majesty's Government with respect to the various important matters brought under its consideration last Session, in an address presented by a deputation from this House, should afford the House the most entire satisfaction, and that the requisite measures be taken as speedily as possible by the House, in order that the views of his Majesty's Government, so far as may depend upon the House, may be carried into full and complete effect. "Resolved unanimously, as the opinion of this committee, That the House should entertain a deep sense of the high obligations they owe to his Majesty's Government for the promptness with which the representations contained in the address were attended to; the solicitude expressed for a satisfactory settlement of the various matters brought under their consideration; and the results produced by the negotiation carried on between his Majesty's principal Secretary of State for the Colonies and the deputation; and that a Select Committee should be appointed by the House to have such, their sentiments, laid at the foot of the Throne." 622 "House of Assembly, July 21, 1837. "Whereas, the inhabitants of this royal province are deeply grateful to the Right Honourable Lord Glenelg, Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, for the liberal and enlightened policy which, under our most gracious Sovereign, has characterised his Lordship's decisions on the important question recently brought under his notice by the House: and whereas this House is desirous that a personal, as well as a political, remembrance of that noble Lord should be perpetuated in this province; therefore resolved, that an humble address be presented to his excellency the Lieutenant-Governor, praying that his excellency would communicate with his Lordship, and on behalf of this House request that his Lordship would be pleased to allow his full-length portrait to be taken and sent to this province, to be placed in the Assembly-room; and further, that this House will make provision for the same. "CHARLES P. WELMORE, Clerk." 623 624 Cheers. 625 Lord Stanley: 626
 Sir R. Peel : I heartily rejoice that I gave to the noble Lord who has just sat down the opportunity of explaining a charge which was supposed to have been brought by him against my noble Friend—of expresssing his approbation of the conduct of Lord Aberdeen as Colonial Minister of this country, and of paying to him a tribute of praise, which I believe to be as justly deserved on the part of my noble Friend, as, I must say, it was creditable on the part of the noble Lord who paid it. I was surprised at the sensitive and irritable feelings which were displayed by the right hon. Gentleman who had but recently closed his address to the House. I should have thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, responsible for his public conduct, having filled the situation of Colonial Secretary, would have been content to vindicate himself from an imputation brought forward by my noble Friend (Lord Stanley); and brought forward, I must
 646 647 una voce, 648 649 650 651 652 653 654 655 656 "His decision more embroils the fray." 657 Cheers. 658 659 660 in extenso 661 662 663 664 665 666 667 668 669
 Sir William Molesworth  would certainly give his assent to the proposition of the noble Lord. He would withdraw his motion in favour of the amendment; but at the same time he begged to state, that he could neither vote for nor against the noble Lord's amendment: he could not vote against it, because it censured the conduct of Government in respect to the affairs of Canada; and he could not vote for it, because it censured, he thought harshly and unfairly, persons whose cause he had endeavoured to support in this House.
 Viscount Howick  hoped, before the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) proceeded to address the House, that he might be allowed to say one word in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Newark (Mr. Gladstone) with respect to the speech made by him in 1835. The hon. Member for Newark had accused him of having, in that speech, charged Lord Aberdeen with being an enemy to the human race. Now, what really passed? In the debate upon the Address, in opening the Parliament in
 645
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was the intention of the Government to make a proposition on that subject, but he did not think that he should be able to propose any vote on the matter before Easter. He would, however, state before that time arrived the general nature of the measure which the Government intended to bring forward: indeed he might state now, that with respect to the Act passed in 1707, relating to unexhausted teinds, it was proposed to give an authority to divide the parishes so as to apply a portion of those unexhausted teinds to the purposes of spiritual instruction in the large parishes in the highlands where the teinds were exhausted, but the Government did not mean to propose any endowment from any public fund for parishes in Edinburgh or Glasgow.
 Sir E. Sugden  remarked, that he had not had an opportunity of looking at the Bills introduced by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, and, therefore, he was not in a situation to say whether he could agree to a second reading of them without a discussion. He would, however, look at them, and if he thought that it would be necessary to discuss them first, he would state his opinion to-morrow. With regard to the law of heriots, he thought that it ought to be abolished, but the question was a difficult one to deal with. The House, however, ought to be aware that it was not copyholds only which were subject to heriots, but that, as many Gentlemen knew, heriots were due in many instances in respect of freeholds. If heriots, therefore, were to be abolished, they could not be abolished by the gradual enfranchisement of copyholds, and it would be necessary to pass a general law for that purpose.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know how it was possible that this motion could be brought forward on Monday? He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would fix some day when the motion might be fully discussed, as he intended to move an amendment to the motion, extending the inquiry to the Bank of England.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware that there would be any opposition to the re-appointment of the Committee. As, however, his hon. Friend intended to move an amendment, he would select an open day on which they could have a full discussion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, to postpone his motion relative to the re-appointment of the Committee on Joint Stock Banks till Monday.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thanked the right hon. Baronet for his suggestion, and observed, that that was the very course which he intended to pursue. The points which remained for inquiry were two—namely, what was the effect of the Bank of England's local circulation and country branches, and of the connexion between those branches and certain Joint-stock banks. There was, also, a question as to the Bank of Ireland, into which no inquiry had been made at all. He believed that these were the points which were still unnoticed. If they went over the points on which they had already taken evidence, they would not only undertake a very needless task but one full of inconvenience. Gentlemen would, therefore, understand that in proposing the revival of the Committee, it was only to consider those points on which no evidence had been taken, and not for the purpose of going over the grounds on which so much evidence had already been laid before the House.
 The Attorney-General  entirely concurred in what the right hon. Baronet had said with respect to the law of heriots, which was the barbarous remnant of a barbarous
 703
 The Attorney-General  was ashamed to confess that the subject was so difficult that he had found himself unable to grapple with it. In the course of the last Session he did introduce a Bill for the abolition of heriots, but the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge had pointed out several objections to it, which upon an after-consideration he had found insuperable. He had used his best endeavours to find out some other plan, hut without success, and he could now therefore only hope, that by the enfranchisement of copyhold, heriots would gradually cease.
 Sir Robert Peel  must say, that the law relating to heriots was one of the most ridiculous blots that ever existed in any system of civil jurisprudence. If it were left in its present state, it would be the greatest reflection on the Legislature that could be cast upon it.
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney-General would state whether he proposed to bring forward any measure with reference to the law of heriots.
 Sir R. Peel  would suggest, before the right hon. Gentleman committed himself to a renewal of the Committee, that it was a subject for his consideration whether its re-appointment was absolutely necessary. The evidence, if not complete, was pretty
 704
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to remind Lord John Russell that the time had now elapsed within which
 702
 Lord Stanley  said, that, about a fortnight since, the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) had said, that, in the course of some time, he should be prepared to state the course which Government would adopt with regard to the Irish Church. He wished to know at what time it was proposed to bring this matter forward, and what course Government proposed to pursue? He would also take the same opportunity of asking his noble Friend, the Secretary for Ireland, whether or not he had succeeded in obtaining a return of the proportion of tithes paid by the landed proprietors, as compared with the portion paid by the tenants in Ireland?
 Mr. O'Connell  was of opinion, that all rent-charges and annuities in the shape of rent should be made rateable. It was his intention to move the insertion in the first line of this clause of the word "rents," and also that the "rights of water-power" at present included in the clause, be exempted from the rate.
 Mr. O'Connell  was surprised to find any Gentleman, still more any lawyer, unable to discern a distinction between the case of an annuitant and a mortgagee; surely there was this wide difference, that the latter could press for the payment of his principal debt, and so relieve himself from the impost, whereas the annuitant was a landlord to the extent of the income he derived, and could not call in his original advance of capital.
 Lord Stanley  wished to know what was intended to be done as to rating hogs. Was the part that was cut only to be rated or was the entire?
 Sir Robert Rateson  said, he did not think the answer at all satisfactory. There were many parts of Ireland in which landlords never charged their tenants any thing for turf. He for one never did. He gave it as an accommodation to his tenants. He therefore thought it hard that a part of his property from which he derived no profit should be taxed.
 Mr. Roche  said, the sums received by the landlords of the mines ought to be rated, but not the capital employed by adventurers in working them.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that property of that kind, and all manufactories under ground, were not rated in England; and he thought it would be more just to relieve Ireland from a tax that England did pay than to subject Ireland to a tax which England did not pay. He did not think the distinction made by the hon. Member for North Lancashire between bogs and quarries held good. They were quite analogous, and in both cases the subject matter was carried away. It was his determination, before the Bill left the Committee, to move a proviso, exempting bogs altogether. By a decision of the Court of Exchequer in Ireland, cutting turf was held to be waste, and no tenant could cut turf unless there was a special permission in his lease to do so. He did not know anything that would be felt a greater hardship by the poor of Ireland than the deprivation of this permission to cut turf, and he thought subjecting bog-lands to the payment of rate would have an injurious effect in that respect.
 Colonel Perceval  said, that the clergy in his neighbourhood were ready to wait for their tithes till the rents were paid.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that this clause only declared that tithes should be rateable, and did not provide for their being levied. He thought that the whole objection would be remedied if power were given to the guardians to levy the rates against the composition, and not to proceed against the clergyman.
 Sir Robert Ferguson  said, that too much power was given to the Commissioners by this clause. The making of surveys was a matter entailing great expense on the country, and which, in its present state it could scarcely bear, and he really thought that the Ordnance surveys, which had been already made, should be used.
 Sir Robert Ferguson  said, that if they were not, he really hoped that they would not be continued, for the Irish people were already taxed with immense charges on this head without reasonable cause.
 Sir Robert Ferguson  would then move an amendment to the clause, to the effect that the consent of two thirds of the Guardians should be required to decide what surveys should be used, and he would take the sense of the Committee upon the subject.
 Lord J. Russell  saw no reason for the exemption of this kind of property; however, as the hon. Member for Monaghan's proposition only provided for an exemption for a limited number of years, he would have no objection to agree to it, but could not consent to a total exemption.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that with regard to the Tithe Bill, he hoped to be able to lay this subject before the House in the couse of the present month. He hoped to be able to state the principles and details of this bill before bringing forward any other measure relating to Ireland.
 Mr. Lynch  said, that nothing could be more fair than the clause was as it stood. It declared that where there was no profit there should be no charge, but where there was, the rates should be payable; the Commissioners to rate according to the value from time to time. This rendered the clause, in his opinion, unobjectionable.
 Mr. Lynch  was of opinion, that nothing could be more injurious and unjust than to tax rent-charges; such a tax could fall on no one but the creditor, who derived no benefit from the property, and would enjoy no reversion; these annuitants gave money or other valuable consideration for their incomes, and where, he would ask, lay the distinction between them and a mortgagee?
 Mr. C. Buller  thought, that the tax ought to be put, as in all other cases, upon the rent paid to the landlord, taking the rent as a measure of value. He could mention many instances where sums to a very great amount had been expended in making mines productive, and where no profit could be expected to arise for several years, though they ultimately became productive. Now, it would be unjust to cast aside all the losses of former years, and, when the mines became productive, to make a new valuation, for the purpose of taxing them. He thought, that to subject this kind of property to the payment of the rates would operate as a very great discouragement to the employment of capital in the working of mines in Ireland.
 Mr. C. Buller  could not hope that the House would proceed to the discussion of the Controverted Elections Bill that evening, considering the subject which was now before it. Several Gentlemen had taken considerable interest in it; and recent circumstances had rendered it desirable that the House should solemnly and seriously discuss it. He should be sorry,
 732
 Mr. Jephson  said, that if one acre were only available the whole bog would be rated.
 Mr. Litton  supported the insertion of the words "jointures and annuities," on the ground that the present was an entirely new measure, and was not contemplated by the granters of those incomes. The principle of this bill was to equalise the burthen of supporting the poor; it was with that view the bill was allowed to go into Committee, but leaving the clause as it now stood, would not carry out that principle. To all who had a practical acquaintance with the state of property in Ireland it was well known that, generally speaking, estates were charged to very nearly their full value, and the owner in fee enjoyed so small a residue, that it would be most unfair to prevent the imcumbrances from being rateable. The owner in fee, in a very great number of instances was literally but the agent for the annuitant, and he believed no practical man would deny that at least one third of the estates in Ireland were so circumstanced. Was it fair, just, or reasonable, that the annuitants
 734
 Mr. Lucas  said, that if the noble Lord, the Secretary for Ireland, succeeded in carrying the clause as it stood, it would effect great mischief. He therefore should move
 736
 Mr. Lucas  said, that the Ordnance surveys were townland surveys, and were not therefore, applicable to the purposes of this Bill.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that that there was no reason why rates should not be paid by clergymen in Ireland as well as in England: and as the hon. Member for Dublin proposed a remedy  in rem in personam,
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that, with regard to the bills which had been introduced by the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-General, and which stood on the paper for a second reading that night, he had now read those bills, as well as the opportunity which he had had allowed him. To some of them he apprehended there could be no objection, but two of them were of great importance. By one of them the rights of lords of manors were, in many places, taken away, and transferred to the Crown, and the other altered the modes of descent which had prevailed in this country for a long time. He was not giving any opinion on the merits of those measures, but they were of so much importance that he did not think it right or proper that they should be read a second time merely  pro formâ,
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that there was no objection to the two bills with regard to Copyhold and the Manorial Boundaries' Bill being immediately proceeded with. These three bills, he (Sir E. Sugden) believed to be right in principle, and he threw no impediment whatever in their way. He had, however, thought, that the hon. and learned Gentleman purposed taking all the Bills together.
 Mr. Shaw  believed, from information which he had received, and upon which he thought he might rely, that very nearly one-half of the amount now paid in Ireland in the shape of tithes was paid by the landlords.
 Mr. Shaw  did not think the amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. O'Connell), by introducing the word
 733 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  said, with respect to tithe owners, he thought that they ought to be placed in the same condition as the landlord. It would be very hard to call on the clergyman to pay the rates in respect to tithes which might never be paid. He thought that the tithe-payer in the first instance ought to be chargeable with the rate, and that he should then have the power of deducting the proper amount from the tithe-owner, but no person could contend that the tithe-owner ought to be made pay that which he might never get.
 Mr. Shaw  moved, that the words "all tithes and compositions or rents in lieu of tithes," should be left out of the clause. He admitted, that this was an inconvenient way of putting the question; but he did it to raise the consideration whether the clergyman should be placed on a different footing from the landlords, but that he should not pay rates for his tithes till he had received them.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that his objection had not at all been answered. What he complained of as a hardship was, that clergymen should be called on to pay rates before they got tithes, which, perhaps, after they had paid the rates in respect to them they might never get. He was quite sure when they were paid their tithes they would be quite willing to pay their rates, but he contended it would be a hardship to make them chargeable with rates on tithes which they might never be paid.
 Mr. Sheil  thought, if it was unfair towards the clergyman to make him pay before he received his tithes, it should be held equally unjust to the landlord to make him pay before he received his rent. On the 1st of September last, he owed a year's tithes to the rev. Mr. Thomson, and he was immediately compelled to pay them, though he had not been paid his rents. The rev. gentleman filed a bill in equity to recover the tithes, although he (Mr. Sheil) had not received one farthing of rent. His tithes and his rent were both due on the 1st of November, but he was forced to pay his tithes, although he had not received any rent. Would the hon. Member for Sligo relish this? He (Mr. Sheil) was satisfied that if the bill were altered
 739
 Mr. Sheil  said, he had just asked the hon. Baronet, the Member for Cornwall, the course pursued in Cornwall and he found that the adventurer was not rated, though the landlord of the mines was.
 Mr. Sheil  wished to know if lead mines were exempted from rate in England, why they should not be so in Ireland?
 Mr. Woulfe  said, it was to be rated in the same way as quarries.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, that the only question they had to consider was, how a
 737
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  remarked, that this was precisely similar to the case of the clergy in England, who were liable to pay rates for such tithes as were receivable.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, that the tendency of this proposition would be to throw the burthen of the entire poor's rate in the first instance on the occupier. In a few years more the occupiers in Ireland would no longer be the persons who would have to pay the tithe composition, so that they would have the occupier paying the rates for the clergyman though not being the person chargeable with the payment of the composition. The preferable mode appeared to him to be to treat tithe composition as in itself a substantive property. As to the difficulty of getting clergymen to pay the rate, he was quite sure they would be as ready as any other class to contribute their just share to relieve the wants of their fellow-countrymen.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  suggested, that the Ordnance surveys had nothing to do with the Bill unless they should be found useful for its purpose. If new surveys were required why should they not be made?
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  observed, the 69th clause to be introduced by the noble Lord, the Member for Stroud, provided for that.
 Mr. Lefroy  would support the clause as it stood, the principle of the bill being to throw the burden on the land; therefore, neither mortgagee, nor annuitant, nor jointress ought be rated. If the jointress had an estate in the land, then she would naturally become subject to the tax. He thought it right that those who had no estate in the land should be exempted from the rate. In England, annuitants or mortgagees had never been taxed with poor rates, and such a principle ought not to be introduced into the Irish bill. In truth, he hoped before the bill passed that House it would be assimilated more exactly to the English bill than it was at present.
 Mr. Lefroy  thought, that the mines of Ireland ought to be exempted from taxation. So convinced was he of the importance of this immunity to the welfare of that country, that he should take the opinion of the Committee on the subject. He begged to move that words "opened mines" be struck out of the clause, in order that mines might not be rateable, if the bill became law.
 Mr. Lefroy  said, he was at a loss to know whether the Committee was in a mine or a bog. They began with the open mines, but they had now fallen into the bog. But to come back to the mines: it appeared to him, that situated as Ireland was, mines ought to be exempted from the rate. If the law in England were absurd, correct it, but do not introduce the converse of it in Ireland. He thought if the working of the mines were encouraged, the Poor-rates would be assisted. He thought, therefore, upon those grounds the mines ought to be exempted.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  observed, that while he admitted there were some classes of income, such as funds, which they could not reach by this bill, yet he could not see any objection to their including all jointures, annuities, and rent-charges arising from land. There was another omission which he was sure was only one of inadvertency, as it related to tithes, which were included—namely, ministers' money. The hon. Member then moved an amendment to the effect that these several species of income be included in this clause.
 Sir F. Trench  said, he knew a bog of 20,000 acres which produced nothing, and he thought it most unjust that it should be rated.
 The Attorney-General  said, it was right they should adopt the law of England where it was just—but not where it was abused.
 The Attorney-General  said, that if no
 731
 The Attorney-General  was exceedingly anxious that these bills should come on immediately for discussion. There was nothing he regretted more than that any delay should be interposed, and he had entertained a hope, that the principle of these bills would not have been opposed, however their details might have been disputed. He had thought that no difference would have existed in point of principle, either as to the propriety of ameliorating the law regarding copyhold, or improving the law of escheats, or rendering more uniform the operation of the law of descent. If, however, any hon. Member was desirous of a general discussion upon these questions, he (the Attorney-General) would, of course, assent. But he must observe, that, if these matters were deferred to a subsequent period of the Session, the delay which would thus arise, he (the Attorney-General) should exceedingly deplore. These were questions which had nothing to do with party. He would, however, indulge in no comment upon the delay which was thus interposed, although he greatly regretted it.
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that this subject was of such importance, that her Majesty's Government might with great propriety fix some definitive day—say Friday next—for its discussion. There could be no more important question for discussion than that of the improvement of the mode of trial of Controverted Elections. But the subject could not be proceeded with without some preliminary discussion—the discussion, for instance, of that great preliminary question whether or not there would be any evil in the House of Commons parting with this jurisdiction. The importance of this subject could not be overrated.
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the very question was raised on the English Tithe Commutation Act, and he thought that by adopting the words of the English Act the suggestions of the hon. Member for Dublin would be fully met.
 Sir W. Somerville  had recently opened a copper mine on his estates in Ireland, one of his objects in doing which, was to give employment to the poor, where it was much wanted. He thought that subjecting this kind of property to taxation would operate as a very great discouragement to the employment of capital in speculations of the kind. Should they be indisposed to consent to a total exemption they ought at least to adopt the proposition of the hon. Member for Monaghan, giving an exemption for a limited number of years.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he feared the hon. Member for Tipperary (Mr. Sheil) would waste his eloquence in vain, as the noble Lord opposite had said he intended to leave the bill in its present state. With respect to the lead mines, he could state that mines in the county which he had the honour to represent were worked some years since without any profit arising from them. The works were abandoned, but recently they were again worked with considerable profit. He (Lord Castlereagh) had no wish to shield the landlords, but he contended that those who employed capital in working the mines, and who consequently gave employment to the people, should be exewpt from the rate.
 Viscount Morpeth  thought, the clause as it stood placed the matter on the fairest and most equitable footing possible. The anomalies of the law of England ought not to be introduced into Ireland, and as the Government thought that wherever there was profit, whether from above or under ground, the payment of rates should follow, they were determined to adhere to the clause.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the Ordnance surreys, which had been already made, did not extend to more than half the country. It was only in the absence
 740
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that this point had been debated last year, and the Committee had been induced to adhere to the present course by two considerations. The first was, that they ought not to complicate the relations between landowner and tenant; and, secondly, that as the whole tendency of their legislation was to remove the payment of the tithes to the highest landowner, it would not be consistent with that tendency to throw the burthen in this instance upon the occupier.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, in reply to the noble Lord's question, that he had instituted an inquiry last year, but had found an almost insuperable difficulty in the way of obtaining the information which the noble Lord desired; and he had therefore no communication to make upon the subject.
 Sir R. Philipps  considered that it would not be fair to the parties who had embarked their capital in this undertaking to repeal this clause, and he therefore moved that the Bill be read that day six months.
 Sir G. Strickland  observed, that the principle was against passing-tolls, and therefore, he would support the Bill. He contended that the right hon. Gentleman was fully justified in bringing it forward, as the Bill was not a private one, but one of a public nature, which materially affected the interests of a large class of her Majesty's subjects.
 Mr. H. Hinde  observed, that the only argument of the right hon. Baronet (the Member for Pembroke) against the Bill was, that it was unprecedented. Now he (Mr. Hinde) would instance the case of the Glasgow Lottery Bill, by which extravagant powers were conferred upon a company, and which was subsequently repealed. That would show, that the present course was not without precedent.
 Mr. O'Connell  could assure the right hon. Baronet opposite that he had been misled with respect to the statement made at a meeting of Irish Members relative to the Bill. There had been a meeting with respect to a railroad to join the harbour, at which there had been mention made of the harbour, but if they had known that tolls were to be inflicted upon ships they would have risen in a moment, and thrown overboard railroad, harbour, and all.
 Mr. Wallace  dissented from almost all that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and could not assent to much of what his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, had stated. He must say, he thought the office in question had not been properly bestowed. At the time the Duke of Richmond gave the evidence alluded to, he had but recently entered office, and, therefore, could not have a sufficient knowledge of the business of the department over which he presided. He, therefore, laid very little stress on the testimony which the noble Duke gave. It could not he denied that the office of Postmaster General was a job, and for his own part he did not hesitate to say, that this appointment of cashier was a still greater job. If such an office ought to exist, were there not plenty of men in the department not only fully equal to the performance of the duty, but as well deserving of the situation as Mr. Primrose. It was, he thought, clear, that the Duke of Richmond meant to act on the principle of promoting well deserving officers to the vacancies as they occurred in the department, and any one who read his evidence attentively could arrive at no other conclusion. There was at present an accountant in the Post-office in Scotland. That was a check officer, and therefore if the appointment were to be made at all he was the party to whom it should have been given. He asserted that if the
 773 l. l. l.
 Colonel Anson  was afraid that those who brought forward this motion were as much influenced by personal as by political feelings. The hon. Member for Kilkenny was guilty of many mistakes with respect to this appointment. He was quite mistaken in stating the place to be a sinecure; but though the hon. Member in one part of his speech did state it to be a sinecure, in another, he gave a description of the duties to be performed. The hon. Member for Greenock had made a statement, to which he was surprised how he could have given credit, namely, that this situation had been filled by a deputy to keep it open for its present occupant. This was a statement too ridiculous to merit reflection and he was surprised how any one could be imposed on by it. However, he could say, that it was totally unfounded. Though this situation was described as of no importance, such was by no means the fact, and he would direct the attention of the House upon that point to what was stated in the report of the Commissioners of revenue inquiry, and which had already been referred to. The Duke of Richmond thought the situation so important
 775 l. l. l. 776
 Mr. F. Baring : The right hon. Baronet had dealt so fairly with the general question that it was not his intention to trouble the House, but the right hon. Baronet could not sit down without an attack on those valued friends of his of whom he had spoken so kindly. To the attack which the right hon. Baronet had threatened he could only say, that whenever he brought the question before the House he would be ready to meet him, and to rest the defence of the Government either on their own conduct or on a comparison with the conduct of other Governments, whichever way the right hon. Baronet chose to take it. He hoped, however, the right hon. Baronet would be more accurate in his facts than he was with respect to the cases the right hon. Baronet had alluded to. With respect to Mr. Hay, that case had already been discussed in the House, and the right hon. Baronet appeared to forget that the superannuation granted was in the nature of a pension, granted by the Government which had preceded the Ministers in office. He thought the right hon. Baronet had been long enough in office to know, that a gentleman of the name of Lack had, at the termination of fifty years' service, applied for the retired allowance, and that Mr. Le Marchant had been appointed to succeed him.
 Captain Wood  maintained that the Sovereign must be surrounded by some troops; and it was far better to have a corps of guards, than to make a selection from regiments, which must lead to favouritism. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had asked, where were troops necessary? He should answer by telling him that if 2,000 men had been stationed in Canada at the proper time, we should not now be under the necessity of sending out 10,000 men.
 Lord G. Somerset  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman something more of the real merits of the case. He should like to know whether the Government would give its sanction to a case of compensation to those parties being brought before the House, because they had advanced sums of money on the faith of that Act of Parliament being passed? Upon the answer which he might receive would depend his vote, because he thought justice ought to be done to those parties.
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the House to resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.
 Lord John Russell  said, that with regard to the re-inforcement which it was proposed to send to Canada, he did not wish to revive the debates which had already taken place in connection with that subject. He did not hear in the course of those debates any objection strongly urged to the proposition for sending out a considerable force to Canada. Indeed, that re olution stood on such obvious grounds of policy, that he did not think it necessary to refer to it at any greater length. The hon. Member for
 792 793
 Lord J. Russell  did not anticipate that the mission of Lord Durham would prove more expensive, if so much so, than any other mission of a similar nature in past times. Lord Durham was going out as a special envoy, and the sums now paid to the governors of the two provinces of Canada would go a great way towards the expense of his mission. The Government in deciding, that no estimate of the expense should be made out, and that Lord Durham should proceed to fulfil the duties of his important office unlimited on this head, had but followed the precedents of Lord Cowley's special mission to Spain during the war, and Lord Stuart de Rothesay's to Lisbon about the same period.
 Mr. A. Chapman  considered the Act that had passed during the last session so atrocious that the House ought not to hesitate a moment to pass the right hon. Gentleman's Bill for the repeal of the passing-toll clause.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had asked him how he would supply the supposed deficiency that would arise if this reduction were effected. In answer to the challenge, he begged to inform the right hon. Gentleman that he hoped shortly to submit to the House his motion for the reduction of official salaries; and he hoped further, that the saving thus effected, would supply the deficiency that would be caused if the present proposition were agreed to. He had discharged his duty, and he was determined to take the sense of the House.
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose to move as an amendment for the reduction of the duty on Policies of Assurance. He hoped that he would not be opposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the miserable pretext that the finances of the country would not
 781 s. d. s. Attorney-General: s. 782 s. d.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that if the hon. Member for Kilkenny divided the House, he should feel bound to support his motion. The hon. Member had said, that he would prefer having the management of the Post-office placed in Commission, but to that he (Colonel Sibthorp) was opposed, because he agreed in the opinion that a Commission would only open the door to an increase of jobbing. The right hon. Gentleman who had addressed the House on the part of the Government had given no satisfactory explanation. Their whole system was one of jobbing, and they applied the patronage of the Crown with a view to the increase of their own power. The clerkship of the Ordnance had been kept open, waiting for the highest bidder; waiting for whoever would give the most service in return. The whole system was one which any man ought to be ashamed to defend. He hoped the hon. Member would take the sense of the House upon the present motion.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that as he was responsible for the appointment alluded to, he begged leave to explain how it was that Mr. Le Marchant came to the Board of Trade. Mr. Stephens had received a salary of 500 l.
 Mr. P. Thomson  did not think, that the parties to the Bill had done their duty when they neglected to send a copy of the Bill to the Board of Trade. He was willing, however, to admit, that there appeared to be some degree of hardship in the case, and if there was any question of compensation, that might be discussed in the Committee, but he thought it would be very difficult to make out a case which would warrant the House to grant money.
 Mr. Poulett
 759  moved the second reading of the Fishguard Harbour Bill. As it was quite a new proceeding for a person in his situation to bring in a private Bill at the expense of the Government, he would state the grounds on which he, acting on behalf of the trade of the country, and on behalf of the Government, had introduced this measure. With the circumstances relating to Fishguard Harbour the House was already acquainted. A Bill for the improvement of the harbour of Fishguard had passed the Legislature last Session. Late in the autumn his attention had been called to its provisions by the shipowners of the country, and certainly a more extraordinary Bill he had never read. There was a clause in the Bill by which the limits of the harbour were pointed out, and those limits were described to be certain points on the coast of Wales on the one hand, and the Irish coast, extending to the port of Wexford on the other. By one of the schedules annexed to the Act it was provided that every foreign vessel passing within those limits should pay a toll of 3 d. d.; 760 l.
 Sir George Sinclair  entreated his hon. and gallant Friend to withdraw his motion, and not take the sense of the House; because, if he did so, after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should feel himself under the disagreeable necessity of voting against the motion.
 Sir G. Sinclair  thought, that all who had supported her Majesty's Government during the progress of the Canada bill, were bound to vote in favour of the present proposition.
 Mr. Hume , in allusion to the statement just made by the noble Viscount (Lord Howick) as to the proportion of officers to men in the army in 1792, begged to observe that if a comparison were made of the army expenditure in the year 1792 and 1833, that of the latter year would be found the greater.
 Mr. Hume  had expected, after what had been stated on a former occasion by the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, that these estimates would have exhibited a very considerable reduction from those of last year. The noble Lord last year stated that the state of Ireland was such that he expected that
 789 790 l. l. 791
 Mr. Hume , in reply, begged to disclaim any motives of a personal nature, but he should certainly divide the House on his motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was impossible to inquire into the subject before the House without being satisfied that many properties were uninsured in consequence of the high rate of duty. He was satisfied that if a reduction were made the revenue would not suffer, and millions would be covered with insurances which were now lost. Feeling this, he was anxious that this question should be fairly discussed, and not brought forward incidentally. Examples of former reductions might be brought forward to show that taxation had been reduced with great benefit to the people at large, and without injury to the revenue. He hoped the hon. and gallant Colonel would not press the matter to a division now, but when the proper time came to discuss this question, he would vote with the hon. and gallant Colonel, and support him by all the means in his power.
 Mr. Hume , in bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice relative to the appointment of Mr. Primrose as an amendment to the motion of the noble Lord, said, it appeared that a portion of the revenues of the Post-Office were applied to the payment of its officers, and that the House knew nothing of the appointments and salaries of these persons. The House would be surprised to hear that there was deducted from the revenue not less than 7,000,000 l. l. l. l. 768 l. l. 769
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rejoiced, that this matter had at length been brought forward, and in such a manner by the hon. Gentleman who had borne such favourable testimony to the admirable administration of the Post-Office under his noble Friend, the Duke of Richmond. The hon. Gentleman was entirely under misconception with respect to the main facts on which he rested his argument. It
 770 l. l. 771 l. 772
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, in reply to the question of the hon. Mem-
 774
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not complain of the hon. and gallant Colonel's motion, nor of the manner in which it had been brought forward, but the hon. and gallant Colonel had himself anticipated the answer which he felt bound to give to the motion. He could not be expected to defend this tax or any other tax as being other than evils, although necessary evils. Undoubtedly with respect to the charge upon insurances, whether marine, fire, or life insurances, it was one which pressed heavily upon persons in all stations of life, but he was not quite sure that he entirely concurred with the hon. and gallant Colonel in thinking that the charge upon fire insurances was entitled to the very first consideration. He would state one single fact, which he hoped would be sufficient to induce the House to suspend its decision on this subject. The financial year was not yet at an end, and he had had no opportunity of laying before the House the condition of the finances of the country. In January last, however, a statement was published in the  Gazette l. 783 l., l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would confine himself to the question of the right hon. Gentleman, and would give it a distinct reply. The financial year would conclude on the 5th of April, and as soon as the year's accounts were made up, and put into the hands of Ministers, so as to make his statement intelligible, and this in all probability would be in the course of the month of April, he hoped to be prepared to make his financial statement.
 Mr. Gillon  observed, that he was in Lanarkshire when the disturbance referred to by the noble Lord had taken place. It was caused by a strike of the colliers, and one regiment of infantry was sufficient to put it down. When a party vote such as that for the reprimand of the hon. and learned Member was to be decided, the benches were crowded, and some came down to that House who seemed scarcely able to crawl; but when six millions of the people's money were voted, the House was comparatively thin.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  hoped the House would not adopt the recommendation of the right hon. Baronet. He had said that great injustice would be done to those capitalists who had embarked their money in this undertaking. In looking into the Bill he found that a second call could not be made in less than six months after the preceding one; consequently, had all the company obeyed the call, but 1 l. 764
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was one of those who thought very highly of the merits of the motion of the hon. and gallant Colonel; but he hoped that the hon. and gallant Colonel would not press it to a division, the only effect of which, in the present state of the House, would be to damage the question in the eyes of the country. While he was on his legs, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman, the Chan-
 784
 Sir E. Knatchbull  meant to vote in support of the motion of the noble Viscount. He rose solely in consequence of a remark of the noble Viscount to the effect that it might be necessary to submit to Parliament a supplementary vote with reference to the recent events in Canada. He (Sir E. Knatchbull) should much regret the realization of such a necessity. Should such a vote be proposed, Parliament would find itself placed in a somewhat novel situation—that of being called upon to pass a vote for services rendered, and respecting which they could exercise no sort of control whatever. This was a line of proceeding which he thought could not be too strongly condemned; nor was this to be the only instance of such a practice. In the early part of the evening the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Horne Department, had informed the
 795 carte blanche
 Sir F. Trench  cordially supported the Bill. He considered the former Bill, which this was intended to repeal, as one of the most unjust and extravagant jobs which had ever come before the House, and he took blame to himself for not being aware of the unjust provisions of the Bill
 765
 Sir H. Verney  contended, that the absence of Members might be easily accounted for, on the ground that this subject had been debated over and over again, and from the general impression that if they wished to retain their colonial possessions it was necessary to keep up a large military force no diminution could be expected. The service of no other army was so severe as that of the British. At all events he thought it would be good policy to send a large force to Canada during the period of the suspension of the constitution.
 Sir J. Graham  had come down to the House with no determination to take part in the discussion; but he could not agree with the hon. Member who had just sat down in his censure of the hon. Member for Kilkenny for having brought forward his motion. The hon. Member for Stafford had said, that personal feeling was mixed up with this question. If it was his misfortune to be opposed to this appointment he supposed he should be accused of personal malignity. The noble Lord, the Postmaster-General, was an old friend of his, with whom be was intimately acquainted, and the noble Lord the father of the gentleman appointed to the situation in question was also a friend of his; but, notwithstanding, if a sense of duty obliged him to condemn the appointment, he would not shrink from doing so. He had come down to the House doubtful as to the question, thinking that there was something that required to be cleared up, and having listened to the discussion he found it his duty not to concur in the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, for he could not honestly affirm its statements. The resolution stated that the appointment had been made contrary to the regulations of the public service. Now he knew no such regulations which could have effect unless they received the sanction of the Crown. New appointments had been alluded to as having been made by his noble Friend, the Duke of Richmond. The first appointment was that of Receiver-general in Ireland, and the next that of Postmaster-general in Jamaica. Now, with respect to the first appointment, when a vacancy occurred the right to fill the vacancy was generally exercised by the Irish Government. With respect to the Post-office of Jamaica, the situation of Postmaster-General having become vacant, it was offered by the Duke of Richmond to four or five individuals, but those individuals
 777 l. 778
 Sir J. Graham  said, that if the Bill which passed last Session were now under discussion, he should be as much opposed to a passing-toll as any Member in the House. He thought, however, that the course which had been taken was somewhat unprecedented. For the first time in his life he found himself opposed to a Cabinet Minister, backed by the whole weight and influence of the Government, fighting on a private Bill. The Bill which received the sanction of the Legislature last Session was one which passed through all the ordinary forms by which their proceedings were guarded, and yet, after creating a corporate body, and endowing them with all the rights and privileges of a corporation, the House was now called upon to rescind the contract to which they had set their seal, and to revoke the authority which had been delegated to them by Parliament. Every proper notice had been given by the parties to the public departments, and, independent of the alterations made by the Admiralty and the Trinity House, it was evident that the
 762 763
 Sir J. Owen , in seconding the amendment, observed, that it would be a most extraordinary course to pass an Act one Session and repeal it the next. A considerable sum of money, notwithstanding
 761 P. Thomson:
 Viscount Howick  felt called upon to trouble the Committee with one or two observations in answer to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny. The hon. Member had asked why they should not reduce the number of regiments, and had then gone on to assert that a large number of those regiments was kept up for the mere purpose of patronage and
 794
 Viscount Howick  said, that in rising to bring forward the army estimates for the current year, he thought he should best consult the convenience of the Committee by adverting as briefly as the case would admit of, to those points in which they differed from those of last year. He would first call the attention of the Committee to the vote respecting the number of men which it was proposed to grant. The Committee would perceive in this vote an apparent increase of 8,000 men, but he need not inform those Gentlemen who had paid attention to this subject that this increase was only apparent and not real, the actual increase being much less than the figures implied. It had been the practice for some years past to keep up all the regiments in the estimates to the full extent of their establishments, though in actual practice they kept a certain number of men short. For the last two or three years this actual reduction had been made to the extent of eight men in each company of infantry, and five men in each troop of cavalry. It was not proposed that the whole of these reductions should for the present be supplied; all that had hitherto been directed was, that the number of the cavalry should be completed, which would cause an actual increase of 580 men as compared with the estimates of last year; and that all the infantry regiments likewise which furnished the military force in the North American provinces, or which were ordered out on that station, should be recruited up to the full complement of their respective establishments. In other words they had deducted a smaller number of non-effective men this year than on previous occasions; so that whereas the deductions last year were equivalent to a diminution of expenditure to the extent of 181,000 l. l., l. l. l. 787 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l, l. l. l. l. 788 l.
 Lord Mahon  said, that under different circumstances, and at another period, he would have been happy to vote for the motion of the hon. and gallant Colonel, but if now pressed to a division he must vote against it.
 Viscount Palmerston  begged to trouble the Committee with one word before they proceeded to a division. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had stated, that in his (Lord Palmerston's) examination before the Committee in 1828, he had endeavoured to show, that it would be a more economical arrangement to convert the then and now existing battalions of 740 to battalions of 1,000 strong. Not wishing to trust to his memory, he had referred to the minutes of his evidence upon the occasion alluded to. He found there, as indeed he had, from the moment he heard the hon. Member's assertion, anticipated he would find,
 796 l. l.
 Viscount Sandon  would give the Bill his warmest support. It was impossible that Parliament knowingly could give its sanction to a Bill imposing such a heavy tax upon the shipping interests without there being the slightest prospect of any benefit to be derived by that interest from the harbour in question. He thought, however, that a Committee should be appointed to inquire into the amount of money which had been expended upon the faith of the clause in question, in order to that being repaid out of the public funds.
 Sir Hussey Vivian  said, that as the hon.
 863 864 Hear, hear! 865 866
 Viscount Mahon felt  called on to make a few observations, with a view rather to set the hon. and gallant Officer right in respect to himself, than of protracting the debate. He had no complaint to make in regard of the manner in which the hon. and gallant Officer had introduced his name into the observations he had thought proper to make—it was marked with courtesy, and he hoped that in the same spirit it should be met by him. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had said, that he had stated on a former occasion, that a great number of the Legion had at one time gone into action drunk. Now the fact was, that he had never stated any such thing. He had no authority for doing so, and without good authority he would never think of making such a statement. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had also said, that he and those hon. Members on his side of the House had reserved all their pity for the soldiers of the legion, as regarded the stoppage of their pay, until the Spanish government, by refusing to pay them, left them in distress; but he could speedily convince the hon. and gallant Gentleman that such was not the case, especially as regarded him-
 867
 Lord Stanley  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that the present measure was one of very considerable importance, and he also concurred with him in pronouncing that this was not a fitting time to examine the details of the plan. He could, however, venture to assure him that the tone which he had employed in introducing this discussion, would be met by hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House in the same spirit. He agreed with the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman, that it was impossible that the registration in Ireland should continue in its present state. But he must be permitted to correct an impression which the right hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to entertain, namely, that the present system of registration was deliberately re-adopted by the Reform Bill. So far from that being the case, that system had been characterised by himself and by other members of the then Government as full of faults, and it was only continued, because it was comparatively untried, and because it was designed, if possible, after the working of the system had been seen in England, to assimilate the law as nearly as the difference of circumstances between England and Ireland would permit. The first difficulty which presented itself in framing a system of registration, but a difficulty which struck at the root of the
 881 l. 882
 Lord Stanley  readily admitted that this explanation diminished some portion of the force of his objection. But, he must
 883 884
 Mr. Morgan O'Connell  regretted, that the noble Lord could not abstain from discussing a question of this nature in a spirit of party. The greater part of the noble Lord's speech was an argument in favour of the election committees opening the registers in case of disputed returns for places in Ireland. This, in his opinion had nothing to do with the question before the House. The language of the noble Lord might be very proper to address to an election Committee up stairs, but it had nothing to do with respect to their amending the law relating to registering Irish voters. Everybody agreed, that the register should be placed on a better footing, and he did not see what the observations of the noble Lord respecting the opening the register had to do with the bill. He believed, that the dislike of the present law was not con-
 885
 Lord Stanley : Then, I am right. Except in such an extreme case, his vote remains during his lifetime unquestioned.
 Colonel Perceval  had only one remark to make with reference to the opinion of Mr. Baron Richards. That learned Judge, when presiding at the last assizes for the County of Sligo, had used these expressions:—"He felt great delicacy in laying down the law contrary to the opinion of ten of his learned brethren, but he was fortified by the recollection of the fact, that if he decided wrongfully a Committee of the House of Commons, he was sure, would set him right;" and he used this as a conclusive argument, that with regard to the right to open the Irish register, the opinion of Mr. Baron Richards was different from that of the right hon. and learned Gentleman.
 Captain Boldero  said, that the hon.
 869 870
 Colonel Davies  was understood to say, that, notwithstanding the moral degradation some parties felt inclined to attribute to the government of Spain, he thought that the British Government had acted discreetly in supporting the cause of civil liberty in that country.
 Lord Eliot  said, that as his hon. and gallant Friend had informed the House that it was his intention on an early day to bring forward a motion affecting the policy of her Majesty's Government in respect to the affairs of Spain, he rose for the purpose of saying a very few words as to the purport of the resolution which he intended to move, and how he proposed to bring the subject before the House. He could assure the House that it was from no overweening sense of his own abilities he was induced to undertake this task, but at the suggestion of several friends to whose opinions he was accustomed to pay great deference, and who assured him that, having been commissioned from this country to Spain for the accomplishment of the convention to which his hon. and gallant Friend had alluded, it would' not be altogether unbecoming in him to come forward to introduce a motion on this subject. With regard to the military conduct of the hon. and gallant Officer who commanded the Legion, that was a point upon which he was not prepared to enter. With respect to the occasion which existed for his motion, he would remind the House that since this question had been last discussed, a new Parliament had been elected, and he thought it highly desirable that under these circumstances a public expression of the opinion of Parliament should be obtained.
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt  condemned the negligence of the Spanish government in permitting such a state of hostility to the Legion as had been manifested in Spain; but at the same time he considered her Majesty's Ministers had acted with good faith in keeping the terms of the treaty with it. The topic, however, which he should touch on was the deficiency of the payment. There was no doubt whatever that the Spanish government did not do right on that subject. The men of the first Legion had never received the gratuities which had been promised them on their enlistment, though they had received their pay; and the officers had received pay for one year only—the first—the second year being wholly unremunerated. A great number of the men of the second Legion, he believed, were now at large on the shores of Spain, in the extremity of distress described by the hon. and gallant Officer opposite. The feelings of his noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) he well knew,
 868 l. l.
 Mr. C. Wood  felt himself called upon to rise in consequence of an observation of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, to the effect, that the course pursued by the Spanish government had tended to force the men of the Legion to re-enlist in their service. He had before him a letter from Lord John Hay, which gave a most positive contradiction to such an assertion. Lord John Hay, it appeared, had taken the disbanded men of the Legion under his protection, and no man, except by his own free will, to ascertain which every possible means were taken, had been suffered to re-engage. About eighty of the best men of the old Legion had reentered, and the reason they had given for doing so, was their present attachment towards the officer whom the Spanish government had selected to command the new force. He should only further say, with respect to the allegation of his hon. and gallant Friend having deserted his men without seeing them paid, or tran-
 871
 Mr. Litton  complained of this measure having been introduced as a declaratory law in respect to the mode of valuation. He had always understood that a declaratory law was, with a view to put an end to matters of doubt in the law. Now, all doubts upon this head, on the construction of the Irish Reform Act, had been set at rest by the deliberate judgment of
 889 bonâ fide
 Sir G. De Lacy Evans  said, it was with great reluctance that he rose to call the attention of the House to the subject of which he had given notice, as it was in some degree of a personal nature. He had hoped that he should not have been obliged himself to bring this subject before the House, because during his absence it appeared to have been frequently discussed by hon. Members on the opposite side of the House, and therefore he had anticipated that on his return they would have afforded him an opportunity of addressing himself to this subject in reply to some statement or motion that might be brought forward by some hon. Member opposite in his presence, as statements and observations on this subject had not been spared during his absence. He had no doubt, however, that the reason for hon. Gentlemen opposite not proceeding with any such motion was, the triumphant result of the debate and division on this subject which took place in the month of April last year. That, he had no doubt, was the ground on which many hon. Gentlemen opposite had recently preserved a careful silence. Before he proceeded further on the subject, he begged to say, that, deeply interested as he was in this matter, yet that, knowing as he did, his own imperfections as a speaker, he intended to be as brief as possible. It was his wish to avoid unnecessary discussion and repetitions, his object being merely to have an opportunity of meeting the charges which had been urged. Whatever difficulties he otherwise
 824 London Review. 825 Condottieri. 826 827 828 829 830 831 832 833 Mahon: 834 835 836 Hear, hear! 837 838 839 840 841 842 843 844
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had listened with the greatest attention to the speech of the hon. and gallant Officer, who, he freely admitted, had performed his task of vindicating the Legion in a very creditable manner. But he must avow, that as far as any statements of his were affected by what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Officer, he could not find that any of them was refuted. He could assure the gallant Officer if he thought he could not, upon documents on which he might rely, maintain every one of those statements, he would take the opportunity of withdrawing every one of them which appeared to be not founded in fact, but he had nothing now to withdraw—nothing to retract; he had made those statements on the authority of several officers of the Legion, and he had not heard the gallant Officer refute any of
 845 846 847 848 De L. Evans 849 Notes on the Medical History and Statistics of the British Legion of Spain, 850 851 852 853 * * 854 855 Morning Chronicle * * * * 856 857 858 859 860 861 862
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  had given notice of a motion for leave to introduce a Bill on this subject, and he did consider that the opening of the register was a question which ought to be settled by law. He thought also, with regard to the beneficial interest, that the intention of the Legislature was different from the right hon. Gentleman's construction; for Mr. Justice Crampton, who was Attorney-General when the Reform Bill was introduced, was one of the ten Judges who had agreed in their judgment, and he thought that this was the best test by which to decide the  animus
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  did not think that either the noble Lord or the hon. and learned Member for Exeter were justified in entering upon the disputed points which they had adverted to, and with respect to which he did not do more than declare the law. The argument of the noble Lord and of the hon. Gentleman opposite, was intended to produce an effect before a different portion of the House than was then assembled. The noble Lord had added the weight of his personal character to the opinion which he had given, that if he were on a Committee he would consider it part of his duty to open the Irish register; but the noble Lord would allow him to say, that he entertained an entirely different opinion on the law as to that point. He knew well that his opinion was not of such great weight as that of the noble Lord; but taking all the provisions of the different statutes into consideration, and allowing all due weight to the arguments adduced by hon. Gentlemen opposite, he must say, that he would, either as a Member of a Committee, or as a lawyer, state, that the Committees of that House had no power, under the Irish Statutes, to open the register. With respect also to the question of beneficial interest, he must observe, that he entertained a similar difference of opinion. It was true, that the Irish Judges, by a majority of ten to two, had held to the contrary; but he could not forget that he had with him the opinion of Judge Perrin, which was not to be slightly neglected; and of Mr. Baron Richards, which was also of some little weight; and that this was backed by the opinions of many Committees of that House, and of many eminent Members in this country; and he did believe with them, that the words "beneficial interest" introduced, instead of the well-known formula before in use in Ireland, and still in existence in England and in Scotland, and not introduced by hazard or incidentally, but after
 890
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe : I propose that the law should remain as it now stands, and that the registry should be a valid registry for eight years.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, that he meant the registry confirmed upon appeal to be conclusive as to all matters affecting the voter at the time of the registry; but that the power should be reserved of examining as to any circumstance arising after that period by which the position of the voter might be materially altered, such, for instance, as his losing his freehold.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws relating to the Registration of Voters in Ireland. As the registration law now stood in Ireland, a party claiming to register was obliged to go through a process established on two most important occasions. One was the occasion of passing the Catholic Emancipation Act, when an Act contemporaneous with that measure was passed to regulate the freeholders of Ireland. By that Act, it was provided, that every person claiming to register, except 50 l. 876 877 878 879 880
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  should not have interfered on the present occasion, but that it appeared to him that the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had just sat down, and whose observations were deserving, at all times, of the fullest attention, laboured under some misconception
 888
 Sir De Lacy Evans , in reply, said, that he had heard so little affecting the statement which he had taken the liberty of
 873 874 875
 Sir K. Bateson  thought the observations of the noble Lord perfectly relevant. The present system was one which held out a frightful temptation to perjury. He trusted the right hon. the Attorney-General for Ireland would, as very easily he might, extend by this bill the benefit to Ireland already enjoyed in England, of taking the polls for counties at other places besides the county town. Good polling places could be afforded at the usual places where the quarter sessions were held, and a great saving of time to electors and of expense to candidates might be effected.
 Sir R. Inglis  would take that opportunity of expressing his opinion in the presence of the hon. and gallant Officer. No person had a right to destroy life without lawful commands, but he denied the legality of the commands in the present instance. Allusion had been made to an Order in Council, but, if that allusion were correct, it would only be transferring the guilt from the hon. and gallant Officer to the Government. He had not heard the gallant Officer justify himself by the Order in Council. What offence, he would ask, had warranted his attack on the Basque provinces? If the attack were made by Government stipulation, Government had done too little; if not, it was a murder on a great scale. He had stated these opinions last year, and had said, that he should be glad to hear an explanation from the gallant Officer, and he now repeated the statement in his presence. With respect to the policy of the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston), he would defer expressing his opinions until the motion on the subject, of which notice had been given, was brought before the House.
 Sir W. Follett  said, that he should be extremely sorry if anything he said should be construed into an opposition to the introduction of this bill. All sides of the House were satisfied of the necessity of removing the present imperfections of the registration system in Ireland, and as far as he could understand the right hon. Gentleman, a considerable improvement in the existing system would be effected by the present bill. He, however, could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking it would be wise to hold a registry to be final for the space of eight years. Why should the House be called upon in that respect to legislate on a different principle for Ireland than for England, where the registry was subjected to annual revision? But he did not rise to enter now into a discussion of the details of the measure, but, agreeing in its principles, he rose for the purpose of offering an observation on one or two points which had incidentally been alluded to. This bill suggested the adoption, by its provisions, of two measures not strictly relating to registration, and which ought not to pass without observation. One of those provisions was the mode in which the right hon. Gentleman proposed a test of value of property in Ireland. The hon. Gentleman who had spoken last but one had said, that this would lead to a party division upon the bill. Notwithstanding that
 886 l., l. l. l. l. 887
 Sir W. Follett , in explanation, said, that he did not mean to state, that the House, by making the register final, would deprive itself wholly of jurisdiction in election matters; that certainly formed the main and most important jurisdiction, but still questions of bribery, and the like, would be open to election Committees of the House, even if this Bill should pass.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that as the noble lord (Lord Elliot) had given notice of an intention to bring the general question of the policy of the Government in regard to Spain under the consideration of the House, he should not on the present occasion enter at all upon the political part of the discussion which had taken place, but should reserve for that occasion any thing he had to say upon that subject. On the part of the Government he was perfectly ready to meet the noble Lord's motion whenever it was brought forward, and he was equally satisfied that he would then be able to prove to the satisfaction of the House that the policy towards Spain had been both expedient and honourable. Upon the military part of the question before the House it would be great presumption in him to offer any opinion of his own; but still he must say, that, as far as an individual not of the military profession could judge, he thought his hon. and gallant Friend had completely succeeded in not merely vindicating—if vindication were necessary—his own conduct, but had repelled the imputations that had been thrown on the officers and men under his command. As far as that House was concerned nothing had passed within its walls to call for the vindication his hon. and gallant Friend had thought proper to make; and if there had been attacks made upon him in other quarters, be thought the statement they had heard that night was calculated to secure him against their repetition. In the course of the debate an hon. Member had called the attention of the House and of the Government to the claims of the officers of the Legion upon the Spanish Government, and expressed a hope that the matter might be taken up in their favour. He begged to say that the attention of the Government had already been directed to the subject. It was true a very large sum was owing to those officers, but the precise
 872
 Mr. Vernon Smith  moved the second reading of the Municipal Boundaries' Bill, and in doing so would take the liberty of presenting a petition in its favour. He felt called on to remark that all the petitions presented to the House on the subject of this Bill were petitions praying for alterations merely—not against the measure altogether. All those Gentlemen who had paid attention to the passing of the Municipal Reform Bill would recollect that it had been agreed on all sides that the question of boundaries should be reserved, as in the Parliamentary Reform Bill, to a separate enactment. Unluckily for the facility in the passing of this Bill the precedent of the Parliamentary Reform Bill was not followed, for this Bill had been delayed for some time, and had been nearly forgotten; so much so, that many hon. Members, he was afraid, would consider it some whim of his own, and not one founded upon previous assent and inquiry. After the passing of the Municipal Reform Act, Commissioners were appointed, and sent down to examine into the best mode of fixing these boundaries, and it was upon their report that, acting with his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell), he had introduced a Bill similar to the present in the last Session of Parliament, which Bill fell to the ground then, in consequence of the demise of the Crown. Thus it might be said, that this Bill, which was introduced on the 21st of December, had in reality been eighteen months before the country; and that ample opportunity of examining its provisions had been afforded. The principle laid down and strictly adopted in forming the Bill was this, that the municipal boundaries should comprise only those inhabitants who were interested in the municipal offices; and that, as the great object of the creation of these boroughs was jurisdiction and police, no person should be included within them without deriving some municipal advantage. There was some difficulty in carry-
 892
 Mr. Ellice  said, that he had been instructed by the corporation of the city of Coventry, the place which he represented, to oppose this Bill as far as they were con-
 893
 Lord Stanley  said, it was manifest, that without modification the measure could not be carried. On looking to the petitions which had been presented on the subject, he was convinced that a strong feeling of dissatisfaction prevailed in reference to this measure. The proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Coventry, sounded fairly, but he (Lord Stanley) could not give his assent to the second reading, unless some more definite understanding were come to. In his part of the country he knew that a hostile feeling was entertained towards this bill, and therefore he would not agree to the adoption of any course which might render it necessary hereafter to reunite their scattered forces in opposition to it. He, however, would suggest to the hon. Gentleman who had charge of the bill, and to the Government, whether the better way would not be to prepare an instruction to the Committee, laying down the precise object which they had in view, and to take time, say a fortnight after the circulation of this instruction, for ascertaining whether it met the wishes of the hon.
 896
 Mr. Ellice  concurred in the suggestion of the noble Lord, and thought that such an instruction as had been pointed out would be most satisfactory, as in it they could state the names of the places to be omitted. A delay of a fortnight or three weeks would enable the Government to obtain all the information necessary to prepare such an instruction.
 Mr. V. Smith  said, that in passing an instruction of the kind there would be extreme difficulty in ascertaining the feelings of the different parties in each locality. Every case might not be so clear as that of Coventry. He thought the better way would be to send circular letters to the different cities, and boroughs intended to be included in the bill, requesting that meetings might be called in order that the opinion of the constituency in each case might be fairly and fully ascertained.
 Lord Stanley said, that the instruction was not his, and that he had merely suggested it as the best means of ascertaining how far the measure would be satisfactory or otherwise. It would not require a delay of more than a fortnight or three weeks, and surely if that time would enable the hon. Gentleman to overcome his difficulty he ought not to object to it. It could not be denied that the petitions against the measure outnumbered those in favour of it, and when that was the case the hon. Gentleman should not be indisposed to meet the wishes of those who disapproved of his bill as it now stood.
 Mr. V. Smith  thought, that the understanding was, that he should frame an instruction to the Committee such as proposed by the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley), and that he should send a circular to the different boroughs to see how far they were likely to agree, and that they might thus be able to go into Committee after Easter.
 Mr. V. Smith  said, that the bill was no conceit of his, but had been brought forward upon the recommendation of the Commissioners. However, as there had been such a general expression of opinion from all sides of the House with respect to the bill he would yield to the sense of the House and withdraw it.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that in cases where those bodies expressed their opinion it would, of course, have its due weight with the Government.
 Lord J. Russell , in explanation said, that before they exempted any place from the operation of the bill they ought to have some proof that the parties dissented from the proposed arrangement. He thought the best way to obtain this information would be by means of petitions, and the opinions which the hon. Members who presented those petitions might express.
 Lord John Russell  said, he should like to know what the general opinion of the House was on this subject before he
 894
 Mr. Hawes said, that if the principles on which the bill was founded were sound he could see no reason why it should not be carried, even though its operation might inflict individual hardships. The labours of the Commissioners would go for nothing unless their recommendations, of which he approved, were adopted.
 Mr. Grote hoped that the House would not treat the bill in the manner suggested by the noble Lords at both sides of the House. It was certainly a most extraor-
 897 in statu quo
 Mr. Herries  said, he was glad that the noble Lord had manifested an indisposition to accede to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Member, for Coventry, but it was evident that the bill could not proceed without some more definite understanding was come to. The borough which he represented was universally opposed to the measure, but still if the noble Lord would say that it should be limited to those places only where no objection was made to it he would consent to the second reading.
 Mr. Hume  proceeded to explain the provisions of the bill. It comprised two points, first, to declare what the legal expenses ought to be, so as to prevent the possibility of disputes. The second point was to make a provision for expenses that were not already provided for. There was another point. It was considered necessary to remove doubt as to the postage of writs and returns. At present the writ was sent down by post, but it was considered necessary to send up the re-
 899
 Mr. Gladstone  thought, that the opinions of the corporations ought to have
 895
 Mr. Wilberforce  moved, that the bill be read a second time that day six months 
 Sir E. Knatchbull , though not connected with any borough, could assure the House that a strong feeling against it existed in Hythe and the other boroughs in his part of the country. He would not oppose the second reading, if all those places which were opposed to the measure were exempted from its operation. The noble Lord ought to state clearly whether or not he meant to assent to this proposition.
 Sir T. Troubridge  said, that, when he had a duty to perform, he would discharge it in spite of the whole world. In the bill before the House the interests as well as the rights and privileges of the borough with which he was connected were involved. With respect to the second reading he heard so much talk about principle, and a Committee above stairs, and various suggestions from all sides, that he was completely bewildered. If he was given to understand, that the borough with which he was connected was to be withdrawn from the bill he would consent to the second reading, but otherwise he would oppose it.
 The Attorney-General  would remind the House that considerable inconvenience might arise from the present bill not being read a second time. When the Municipal Corporations Bill passed in 1835, there was a pledge given to the country that a bill would be passed to regulate the boundaries of the different boroughs. This bill was brought in to remedy those inconveniencies. It was found in 1835 that in many towns the corporate jurisdiction did not extend over half the extent of several towns, whilst in many others a large portion of the rural districts were attached to them, and called the liberties of the borough. In some of these places it was found very inconve-
 898
 Viscount Howick thought their object in a bill of this kind should be, to meet the wishes of the parties interested in it. He cared nothing for abstract principles, as, under all the circumstances, he thought the best course they could take was that pointed out by his right hon. Friend. Let them take the second reading and go into Committee, but upon the understanding that no place should come under the operation of the bill except those which were desirous of such an arrangement with respect to their boundaries as was proposed. It would, however, be unjust to deprive those towns which were favourable to the measure of the advantages which would result to them from it.
 Viscount Howick did not think, that a Committee could decide all the questions that might arise, but as the bill could only be put into proper shape in a Committee he was anxious that the opportunity of amending it, so as to meet the views and wishes of all parties, should be afforded.
 Mr. P. St. John Mildmay  appeared at the Bar of the House, and reported that the County of Carlow Election Committee having met on that morning, it was found, that one of its Members, Lord Robert Grosvenor, was prevented by illness from attending, and the Committee had therefore adjourned until eleven o'clock to-morrow.
 Mr. P. St. John Mildmay  said, that be wished to state to the House, that when he was called upon to take upon himself the office of Chairman, it was with the unanimous consent of the Committee, and under the firm belief, that he was doing right, and on this ground. The House sent the Committee from the table to make its own arrangements with respect to their proceedings, and in his recollection—a recollection of nearly twenty years—the House had always been very cautious how it interfered in matters of this description, and the only cases in which they did interfere were those where the Members of the Committee had been altered. The election of the Chairman was always left to the discretion of the Committee; and, therefore, if it was for the convenience of the parties, as well as of the Committee, that the Chairman should be changed, the House would not interfere with the arrangement. The reason for which the Committee was not permitted to be changed was, that, independently of its Members being altered, the number was reduced.
 Mr. Villiers  rose to make the motion of which he had given notice concerning the Corn-laws. He was
 910 911 912 913 914 915 916 917 s. l. l. l. l. l. 918 919 l. d. d. d. d. d. d. 920 s. s. 921 s. s. 922 923
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose to give his decided negative to the proposition of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He had listened with great attention to the speech of that hon. Member, and he must say, that the hon. Member had redeemed his pledge to his constituents, to do all he could for the repeal of the Corn-laws. The hon. Member, towards the close of his speech, had attempted to enlist the feelings of the manufacturing classes in his favour, by describing the agricultural interest as opposed to them. He regretted this, inasmuch as he defied the hon. Member to show an instance in which the agricultural classes had ever forwarded any object in opposition to the manufacturing interest. He saw clearly, that nothing would satisfy the manufacturing interest but the total and entire repeal of the Corn-laws. Why did some hon. Members seek to deprive the agricultural interest of all protection? Was not the manufacturing interest protected; and did not both agriculturists and manufacturers require protection? Not many days since, an hon. Member came down to that House, and asked a question with regard to the linen manufactures of Ireland, inasmuch as he was alarmed at the interference of foreigners in that trade. All the agriculturists required was protection. He again defied the hon. Member for Wolverhampton to produce an Instance on record where the agriculturists had ever put themselves forward to injure the manufacturing classes. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton in the course of his speech, had stated, that nothing could be more satisfactory to the farmer than steady prices. He went along with the hon. Member entirely in this opinion,
 933 s. s. 934 935
 The Earl of Darlington  said, that as he represented a large agricultural constituency, he held it his duty to say a few words on the present occasion. The hon. Member opposite had calmly and coolly discussed the question, but he had drawn the most extraordinary inferences and conclusions from his arguments. It had never fallen to his lot to be more astonished than he was by the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir H. Parnell), whose late intimacy with Dundee seemed to have wrought a wonderful change in his views on the Corn-law question. From the hon. Baronet's speech many would suppose that he, like the hon. Baronet, the Member for Leeds, had been all his life opposed to the Corn-laws. Such was not the fact, for the hon. Baronet was a strong advocate for those laws in 1813, and had advocated a total prohibition until corn sprung up to 80 s. 938 l. l. 939
 Mr. D'Israeli  could not agree with the hon. Member in thinking that the Prussian commercial league was the result of the British Corn-laws. It had taken its origin, he conceived, not in a jealousy of England, but of France; and had been produced, not by the English system of Corn-laws, but by the French Customhouse regulations. Neither had the Corn-laws had any effect in occasioning the adoption of the American tariff, which was only the carrying into effect practically principles which had been recognised in that country for more than half a century. Much had been said of the advantage which the British manufacturers would derive from the abolition of the Corn-laws, but he conceived it to be a delusion to suppose that, were a different state of the law to prevail in this country with regard to corn, the continent would suffer England to be the workshop for the world. The real question for the House to inquire into was, whether or not there existed any good ground to fear competition for English industry at present, in consequence of the existence of the Corn-laws. He had inquired of a friend, who complained of competition in Belgium, in what way the people of that country entered injuriously into competition with the British manufacturing interest, and his
 941
 Mr. Villiers  said, that he had very little to answer, for not a single argument had been urged against the grounds which he had advanced in support of his propoposition throughout the debate. There had, however, been one remark made to which he felt it necessary to advert. It had been said, that there had not been any petitions of consequence presented to the House upon the subject of the Corn-laws, and that, indeed, a general apathy prevailed throughout the country with respect to this question. Now, he had anticipated that objection, and had stated in his opening speech that he had communications with persons in various parts of the country on this very subject, and it was the general opinion that it would be perfectly
 946
 Mr. C. Berkeley  could not agree with the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He thought, if the Corn-laws were repealed, the agriculturists would lose their chief stay and support. He did not think it possible to separate the agricultural interest from the trading interest. He was well aware that at the last election it was attempted to raise a cry that the Liberal candidates were inclined to throw over the agricultural interest for the sake of the manufacturing interest. This cry was raised for party purposes, as it was impossible for any sensible man to entertain for a moment the notion that these interests were not completely inseparable. He felt bound to vote against the motion.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  (Cork county) was induced to rise in consequence of the charge which had been made against the Irish Members by the hon. Baronet opposite. He should vote for a repeal of the Corn-laws, because he felt that it would be impossible for the Irish nation to start upon equal terms with the English as a manufacturing, country until those laws were repealed. A repeal of the Corn-laws would open very extensive foreign markets for British manufactures; but those markets were not at present available, in consequence of the rate of labour being kept up by the restrictive system; but once let them be abolished, and labour would immediately become cheap in England, and still cheaper in Ireland.
 Mr. Cayley  was understood to say, that twelve years ago there had been a cry raised throughout the country for a repeal of the Corn-laws, but that that cry had
 942 943 l. l.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said, that he conceived that the question was one simply of law, founded on the Act. On the section he was clearly of opinion that the Committee, having once appointed a Chairman, had no power to alter their choice, except in the two cases pointed
 905
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that in the whole course of his experience he had never known an instance in which the chairman originally elected by a Committee was deposed, and another chosen in his stead. If the chairman were prevented by serious illness from attending, the chairman's seat then became vacant, and the Committee might proceed to elect another hon. Member of their body to preside over them; and having done so, report the fact to the House. The House would then deal with it. But if the system of deposing chairmen were adopted—if they changed a chairman to-day, they might also change their chairman at any other time; and a regular contest of parties in the Committee might thus arise. The chairman of this Committee had committed
 906
 Mr. Goulburn  would not have said one word upon the subject had it not been for the language of the noble Lord, the Secretary at War. The noble Lord had taxed his side of the House with being actuated in deciding on that subject by party views and party feelings. What had that side of the House to gain by the keeping Lord Robert Grosvenor on the Committee? If there was any party feeling, they should be most anxious to facilitate his removal from the Committee, because the noble Lord came down the other night and voted in the majority on the question respecting the government of Canada, which retained the present Administration in office. He saw the noble Lord on that occasion, and as he knew him, he was glad to see him in improved health; he was now sorry to find that it was otherwise. If, therefore, they were actuated by party feelings, they should be anxious to have the noble Lord removed from the Committee, and there was nothing in the question of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Bandon, which entitled the noble Lord to put such a construction on it. The question had been put from the Chair, and no answer had been returned to it; and his hon. Friend did that which was his obvious course—he repeated the question, and the noble Lord opposite was pleased to make an attack on him.
 Mr. Gally Knight  observed, that the hon. Member for Wolverhampton had appealed to him and asked him how he could vote against the present motion, recollecting as he must the distress which existed in the town of Nottingham. He did not deny that such distress existed, but did positively deny that that distress arose from the high price of corn. In the first place, the price of corn was not high; and in the next place, the distress at Nottingham arose from over-production, from the frequent improvement of machinery, and from the state of the monetary system in America. As a proof that all the manufacturers of the country were not in favour of the abolition of the Corn-laws he could refer to a pamphlet which had recently been published by a manufacturer of Nottingham who was as much opposed to a repeal of those laws as any Member in the House. In that pamphlet was the following passage:—"I do not wish to see one class of persons raised up at the expense of another, because I am well convinced that the interests of all classes of this country are, or ought to be, identical; and I think the growers of corn are not fairly dealt with by those who raise a clamour for the repeal of the Corn-laws."
 Mr. Warburton  had no doubt that the question, as originally put by the Speaker, was perfectly regular; but the manner in which the witness, a professional man, avoided speaking as to the nature of the disease made him conceive that the gentleman had a delicacy, as to professional confidence, in answering the question. He thought that, at any rate, the question should not be pressed.
 The Speaker : What is the nature of his indisposition?—It is an irritation, of a nature that would be aggravated by his coining out.
 The Speaker : Do you think that he will be able to attend in two or three days?—I think not.
 Mr. Dunlop  thought, that some of the arguments which had been introduced by hon. Gentlemen in support of a restrictive system were of rather an extraordinary nature. The hon. Member for Maidstone had built a large portion of his speech upon the restrictive duties of the American tariff. That was rather an unfortunate selection, considering that that very tariff had occa-
 945
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that if he had had the slightest notion that there was any objection to the question being answered, he would not have pressed it.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson : Are you of the medical profession?—I am a surgeon.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson : Can you state what his complaint is? ["Oh, oh!" and "Withdraw!"]—Witness withdrew.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  felt called upon to make a few observations in answer to what had fallen from the noble Lord. He should regret showing a want of proper feeling or any deficiency in point of delicacy, but he had asked the question because he thought that the public had a right to be satisfied on this point, and he also thought, that he heard the Speaker ask the nature of the complaint under which the noble Lord suffered. He did not hear that question put from the chair answered, and having but a short experience in that House, he conceived that no question would be addressed to a witness from the chair which should not be answered. The noble Lord said, that they had the word of an honourable man that he was too unwell to attend, and that that should satisfy the House; but if that were the case, why were they to go through the form of calling a medical man and examining him on oath, and to allow him to give no information on the subject? He should not address a question to a medical attendant which he did not conceive that person was bound to answer, and he could tell the House that the public looked with anxiety and jealousy at their proceedings as regarded election
 908
 Mr. Mildmay  moved, that Lord Robert Grosvenor should be excused from further attendance on the Carlow Election Committee.
 Mr. R. Steuart  said, that a Committee could only communicate to the House through a chairman, and this officer could only be appointed by the Committee. Under the circumstances of the present case, therefore, the House could not interfere.
 Mr. Mackinnon  said, that as a Member of the Committee, as some informality had taken place, he felt it to be his duty to bring the circumstances under the notice of the House. After the ballot had taken place, and the Committee had been struck on Tuesday, and the Members had been sworn, they proceeded to their room, and the noble Lord, the Member for Chester (Lord R. Grosvenor), was elected to act as their chairman. He accordingly took the chair, and acted in the capacity of chairman that afternoon, and the Committee eventually adjourned until half-past three o'clock the next day. On
 903 de nova? 904
 Mr. Mark Philips  was decidedly opposed to the existing system of Corn-laws. Within his own experience the effect of them had been to drive much of the manufacturing capital of the kingdom into foreign countries, where no tax was imposed upon this first and greatest necessary of life. He viewed with great jealousy the Prussian commercial league which had been so frequently referred to in the course of the debate. Whatever the original object of that league might have been, it was certain that it had now assumed a form and a consistency which could be regarded only as most dangerous to the commercial and manufacturing interests of this country. In the manufacturing districts there was but one feeling upon the subject of the Corn-laws, and that feeling was well and forcibly expressed in a petition which he had some time since the honour to present from the Chamber of Commerce and Manufactures at Manchester. He was satisfied that the existing system of Corn-laws could not be of long continuance; therefore speaking in the character of a landowner, as well as in that
 944
 Sir H. Parnell  said, that the noble Lord, the Member for Buckinghamshire, had just stated, that the agriculturists required nothing more than a fair exten-
 936 s. 937 l.
 Sir H. Parnell  begged to explain, that when he advocated the opinions alluded to by the noble Lord who had just spoken, it was the year before the termination of the war; and his object was, not to maintain a high price of corn, but to insure a certain introduction of it into this country.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the House had no power whatever to control the election of the chairman of a Committee. The facts of this case he believed to be, that the Committee had elected a chairman, who had since intimated his wish to resign. It was the unanimous opinion of the Committee that his resignation should be accepted, and another chairman was unanimously elected in his stead. In his humble opinion, that individual was properly elected; for, although he quite agreed with the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge, that a chairman once elected could not be deposed, still he apprehended that a chairman might resign, and that a new election might, under such circumstances, take place, in the same way as the Speaker in that House might resign, when the election of his successor would immediately follow. Such would also be the case in a Committee, unless the act of Parliament forbade that practice. It must be clearly shown, that the act of Parliament stated, that the chairman once elected must still remain in that situation until the report of the Committee was finally sent in. Now, the act contained provisions for the appointment of a new chairman in the cases of death and of indispensable absence occasioned by illness; but it contained no provision whatever for the case of resignation.
 The Attorney-General  said, that if any hon. Gentleman thought that the question should be put to the witness, of course he could insist on its being answered. But would it not be disrespectful to the noble Lord, as well as a want of delicacy, to insist on a reply? Since the question was put from the Chair, the medical man said that Lord Robert Grosvenor was so ill as to be unable to attend in his place. After such evidence, he put it to the hon. Gentlemen opposite whether they would persist in this line of examination.
 Sir Robert Bateson  considered it to be a subject in which the people of Ireland were deeply interested, and he was surprised that not a single Irish Member had yet spoken during the debate. The hon. Baronet addressed the House for some little time longer, but the impatience of the Members prevented the hon. Member from being heard.
 Sir R. Inglis  observed, that the noble Lord, in no measured terms, had stigmatised that side of the House with want of delicacy and party spirit, and as he was one of those who called "order!" it occurred to him that the noble Lord accused the Speaker as much as hon. Members on the Opposition benches, and he had intended to rise and defend the Chair from the noble Lord, who was cheered by Gentlemen opposite when the noble Lord accused him and his Friends of a want of delicacy in persisting in putting a question Which had been put from the Chair. If the noble Lord thought fit to retract the charge, he would say no more; if not, he should call upon the Speaker to desire that some explanation might be given of the charge affecting the whole of his side of the House. The hon. Gentlemen opposite might be regardless of the charge of want of delicacy, but he desired the noble Lord to explain what he meant by such a charge.
 Sir Ronald Ferguson  said, that he knew not who was the author of the pamphlet which the hon. Member had referred to, nor did he care; but this he knew, that he had lately had the honour of presenting a petition unanimously signed by the corporation of Nottingham for the total repeal of the Corn-laws; and he had also presented a petition, signed by 8,000 persons to a similar effect. This country professed to act upon a free-trade system, but how could such a system be maintained unless corn, which was a foreign production, were put upon the same footing as all other articles of commerce?
 Mr. Clay  did not wish to enter into the wide field of discussion which this subject offered, for he could add nothing of importance to the observations which had been already made. He must say, however, that the supporters of the repeal of Corn-laws had little or no support from the public without the walls of the House, and he deeply deplored the apathy that existed in the public mind respecting it. It was true that it was so; and this he was bound to say, though nothing but a pressure from without could obtain any material modification of these laws. Now, for a repeal of the Poor-laws there had been presented to the House not less than 235 petitions, with upwards of 190,000 signatures, whilst a much smaller number of petitions, and with only about 24,000 signatures, had been laid before them for a repeal of the Corn-laws. So that nearly 200,000 applied for a repeal of that law from which the people of this country had received such benefit—which would regulate the price of labour—had corrected such great evils in our social system, had arrested so much the demoralization of the lower classes, and the only objections to it that had been urged in the House had been in detail, and not in principle; whilst for a repeal of a law which in every way depressed the energies of the people, not more than 24,000 had petitioned. Notwithstanding the existing apathy of the public mind on this question, he felt convinced that the people of England would ere long speak out in a voice that could not be misunderstood, and that the present iniquitous system of Corn-laws would be demolished at one blow. He need not say how injurious those laws had been to the manufacturing interest of the country. They had, in fact, been the
 940
 Sir W. Molesworth : Though his hon. Friend whose motion he now rose to second, had nearly exhausted the subject which he had so ably brought under the consideration of the House, yet he could not refrain from offering some few observations as to the effects of a restricted trade in corn. In his opinion, the tendency of the Corn-laws was to create discontent, uneasiness, and an infinitude of moral evils, amongst the great bulk of the community; and it could, he thought, easily be proved, that the statute which his hon. Friend proposed to repeal, materially impeded the advance of this country in a career of wealth, power, and social improvement, which might, and would, be without a parallel in the universe, were we permitted to import from foreign lands the common food of our people. For it must be acknowledged, that a nation was rich or poor, was powerful or weak, ranked high or low in the scale of civilisation, according to the facility or difficulty with which it obtained food for its population—according as a less or greater proportion of bands is employed in raising subsistence for the whole society, or, in other words, according as there was a greater or less proportion of disposable population—disposable for other purposes than those of merely creating the first necessaries of life. This position, if controverted, could easily be proved by comparing the state of society of two countries, in one of which there was, on account of the facility of raising subsistence, a large disposable population; and in the other of which, on account of the difficulty of obtaining food, hardly any dis-
 924 925 926 927 928 929 930 931 932
 Viscount Howick  said, that when he rose to object to the question, he did not
 909
 Viscount Howick  would appeal to the House whether this was not an unusual mode of examination towards a medical man called to that bar? He thought, that there was ample evidence before the House, that the noble Lord was not able to attend. Of all the manifestations of party feeling that had ever been shown in that House, he thought that that just exhibited was the most extraordinary, and he could not believe, that any Gentlemen in that House could have carried their feelings to such an extent as had been shown. When an honourable man stated that he was not able to attend a Committee, and when that statement was confirmed on oath by a medical practitioner, he did not think any person would insist upon carrying that examination further; and, with a total disregard to all delicacy, press questions into the nature of the complaint under which the noble Lord laboured. The noble Lord could have no other cause than illness for not attending the Committee, and he would put it to the good feeling of the House whether such a line of examination should be persevered in? He, for one, objected to such a course of examination being persisted in.
 Lord Stanley  said, he had received a petition from a remote dependency of the British Crown, the very name of which was, perhaps, unknown to a great portion of the Members of that House. In consequence of an informality, he was unable to present it, but he was anxious to avail himself of the presence of the right hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, to ask him if he could give the House any information on the subject. The petition was from the custos and inhabitants of the island of Grand Caymans, a dependency of the British Crown, about 160 miles leeward of Jamaica. The settlement was a very singular one. It was of exclusively British-born subjects, who, having colonized the island, lived under no law whatever, except one they had framed for themselves, giving some authority to persons appointed to act as magistrates. That was literally the only law or authority that prevailed amongst them. Until the year 1831, when they applied to the Bishop of Jamaica, and never previous,
 952
 Mr. O'Connell : They were erased by the clerk of the peace, and he restored them.
 Mr. O'Connell  should not have deemed it necessary to trespass on the attention of the House, after the very convincing speech of her Majesty's Attorney-General on this subject, had he not been anxious to express his opinion that the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon had introduced subjects not at all connected with the question, and improperly introduced them, whilst so many Election Committees were still sitting, which might be swayed by his opinions. There was not the slightest occasion for the right hon. and learned Gentleman to have entered on the question of the right of an Election Committee to open the register in Ireland in discussing this resolution. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced that dissertation, not, he believed, for any improper purpose, but to serve a purpose not
 968 969 970 971  cadit questio, 972
 Mr. O'Connell  said, this was the most important clause in the Bill, and the most likely, if carried into effect, to make the operation of the Bill unpopular. He had no objection, if this Bill must pass, that property should be taxed; if the poor were to be supported by a tax, let them be supported out of the property of the country, but let not the Legislature come on the poverty of the country to effect this object. There were numerous classes in Ireland occupying at rents exceeding the value of the property, and therefore holding at a pecuniary loss, and yet the clause went to charge a person in this situation with the whole rate in the first instance, and with one-half of it ultimately, and without any retribution. He had had the assistance on this clause of persons of remarkable arithmetical skill, and they declared that this part of the Act was unintelligible; for the clause charged occupiers in the first instance, and then they were to make a scale of contribution on all the different rents between the occupier and the holder of the fee. But this was
 975
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, the Bill proposed to tax two parties, the landlord and the occupier; and he thought it would be most injurious not to give the occupier a direct interest in the suppression of pauperism. If the landlord were alone to pay the rate, the landlord alone ought to administer the law; and he doubted whether in many districts the law could be brought into operation at all if the occupiers were excluded from the constituency. Now, with regard to the portion of the rate to be paid by the occupier, he considered one-half too much, and it was his intention to move
 977
 Mr. O'Connell  again contended, that the provisions of this Bill would aggravate the evils which existed in Ireland. There was, he said, a great deal of false humanity in the Bill. If the most vicious ingenuity were set to work to devise a measure which more than another would tend to promote agrarian disturbances, it could not invent a more fit means for such an end than most of the provisions of this Bill. He was of opinion that compulsory charity would do no good; but if they were to have such—if they were to have a Poor-law for Ireland, let the burden fall on the absentee landlord, on the owner of the fee and the rent, and not on the occupier. The entire profit of the land went, in some cases, to the landlord, and was it not fair that he should pay the rate, which ought to be a rate on property Coming upon the occupier would be but renewing those scenes of agrarian outrages, the existence of which all deplored. The House was sowing the whirlwind, and would reap the storm. His objection to the clause was so strong, that he would take the sense of the Committee on the amendment for postponing it for future consideration.
 Mr. O'Connell  repudiated with scorn the insinuation which had been just thrown out against him. Had he wished to agitate on this subject he would have advocated a universal right to relief. He had, however, taken the unpopular side, and was opposed to any Poor-law. There was a great deal of apparent humanity in the observations of the hon. Member who last spoke, but he (Mr. O'Connell) could not forget that in one of the hon. Gentleman's pamphlets he stated his principal reason for advocating a Poor-law for Ireland was, that it would relieve the English labourer from the inroads of the Irish pauper.
 Mr. O'Connell  again implored the noble Lord to postpone the clause. If it remained in force, the police and the army would be again brought into collision with the peasantry.
 Mr. V. Stuart  said, he never heard any person in his county object to the payment of a rate. The occupiers, however, thought one-half too much; but none of them objected to being made liable for some portion of it.
 Mr. O'Brien  said, he was not going to propose that the occupying tenant be relieved entirely from the payment of the rate. But he hoped all Members who took that view of the case, would join with him in proposing that the occupying tenant should only pay one-third instead of one-half the rate. He should move an amendment to that effect, and take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 Mr. O' Connell  believed if there were any chance of the Bill working, it would be in levying as little a burden as possible on the occupying tenant, and he thought the proposal that the landlord should pay two-thirds instead of one-half a reasonable one.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the defect in the argument of those who contended for the present proportion of half and half was, that under the clause as it stood, the landlord would not pay, in fact, one half the rate, while the tenant, under all circumstances, would pay his half—for the moment the tenant raised one shilling profit over and above the rent, he was to be rated for that additional profit as for the rent. It drove him to despair (as to the working of this Bill) to find the proposition of the Government to reduce the
 983
 Colonel Conolly  asked the noble Lord, whether he would exclude the occupiers under 5 l.
 Colonel Conolly  did not see any difficulty at getting at the landlords. After all he had heard he was still of opinion that the occupier ought not to be made pay the rate.
 Colonel Conolly  agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Dublin, and considered that the demand ought to be made on the person who was finally liable to the rate. The House by this clause were reversing the principle adopted
 976
 Lord Eliot  wished to ask Viscount Palmerston a question respecting the state of our relations with Persia. He had heard it stated, that we had at present no representative at the court of Persia; that Mr. M'Neill had retired from it in consequence, as he understood, of an expedition having being undertaken on the part of the Schah, contrary to the wishes of the Government of this country, against the independence of Herat; and that our diplomatic relations with Persia had been, for the same reason, altogether broken off. He should feel obliged to the noble Lord to state, if there were any grounds for such a report.
 Lord John Russell  could assure the hon. Member, that the information which he had received respecting the judge and jury who tried those prisoners was altogether incorrect. He had received a memorial on the subject most respectably signed, in consequence of which he had asked the learned judge who tried the prisoners to meet him at the Home-office. That learned judge assured him, that he was not only satisfied with the verdict, but that the Chief Justice, who was at Hertford at the time, and whom he consulted on the case, perfectly agreed with him in opinion. The learned judge, of course, mentioned all the circumstances of the case to him, and after fully considering those circumstances, he felt it to be his duty not to recommend the convicts to her Majesty for her merciful consideration.
 Lord John Russell  said, that before he moved the reading of the Order of the Day, he wished to call the attention of the House to a subject which he thought entitled to their best consideration, and which, therefore, would most suitably be brought forward at a period of the evening, when the House was tolerably full. The Reform Bill having passed in 1832, the House would recollect, that on the 23d of June 1833, a resolution was passed, on the motion of the present Earl Spencer, respecting the striking off the names of voters from the register, which was in the following terms:—
 "That in all cases where a Select Committee, appointed to try the merits of an election for any county, city, or borough, report to the House, that the names of any voters ought not to have been placed in the register of voters, or that the names of any voters have been unduly omitted from such register, Mr. Speaker shall issue his directions thereupon to the clerk of the peace, town clerk, or other officer with whom the register of voters of such county, city, or borough is deposited, to amend such register, by striking out or adding names to such register, as the case may be, in conformity to the report of such Select Committee." 955 "That in all cases where a Select Committee appointed to try the merits of an election for any county, city, or borough, in Great Britain, report to the House that the name of any person who voted at such election had been improperly inserted or retained in the register of voters, or that the name of any person who tendered his vote at such election, had been improperly omitted from such register, Mr. Speaker shall issue his directions thereupon to the clerk of the peace, town clerk, or other officer with whom the register of voters of such county, city, or borough is deposited, to amend such register, by striking out or adding names to such register, as the case may be, in conformity to the report of such Select Committee."
 Lord J. Russell  would, with great willingness, declare his own opinion, and then the right hon. Gentleman might explain to the House in what way he thought the difficulty connected with the proposition he had made could be solved. As regarded the observations of the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon, he did not think the right hon. Member had answered
 973 974
 Lord J. Russell  said, that feeling the force of the arguments which had been brought forward against the clause, as it at present stood, he would not resist the proposed alteration. He would, therefore, propose that the clause should be so framed as to make one-half of the rate payable by the landowner and the tithe proprietor, and the other half by the occupier of the land.
 Mr. Lynch  contended, that the Bill would relieve the occupier, as one-half of the rate would be paid by the landlord. His hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Dublin, said, tax the landlords; so they were doing by this Bill. He knew that many absentees were amongst the best
 978
 Mr. Jephson  suggested the propriety of giving the Commissioners the power of making the rate collectable at the time the occupier really owed the money to a third party.
 Mr. Jephson  said, that, in a case when a rent of 1,000 l. l., l., s. l.; l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, they were all agreed, that the whole charge would ultimately fall upon the land, but he thought that it would be better that the tenants should, by the payment of a portion of the rate, have an interest in the management of the funds provided for the support of the poor. If the whole charge were fixed on the owners, the occupiers would he entirely excluded from all control over the rates, and the whole management would be vested in the owners of land, and he did not think such an arrangement would be wise. He believed that there would be no objection on the part of the Government to adopt either two-thirds or one-half of the rate as the proportion to be paid by the landowners, whichever the House might think most proper.
 Mr. C. Wynn  suggested, that the resolution of 1835 should be suspended, as far as regarded Ireland and Scotland.
 Mr. D. Roche  thought, if the clause remained in its present shape it would require all her Majesty's troops to levy the rate.
 Mr. Litton  agreed with the hon. Member that it was a great hardship to make the occupier pay the rate, but in his judgment he saw no other way of making a Poor-law available in Ireland. The difficulty of collecting the rate would be increased tenfold if they were to look to parties whose titles were unknown. If the rents were to be rated, what was the collector to do? There was no power known to the law which could point out to the collector who should be looked to, whereas that could not be the case if the occupier were the person to pay the rate. On the whole he thought it utterly impossible to collect the rate at all, unless it were paid by the occupier.
 Mr. Lucas  hoped the Government would adhere to the provisions in the clause as it stood. It was a very difficult question to discuss, or to come to any accurate conclusion, as to the exact proportion of profit each tenant and landlord derived. He thought the Government had done wisely in setting down the proportion at one-half; and that it would only lead to perpetual contest between tenant and landlord, if the tenants' proportion were further reduced.
 Mr. Lucas  said, the landlords of Ireland were now cheerfully taking upon them their share of a burden which had never been imposed on them, and he did not think it fair that they should pay more than one-half of that burden. In England the tenant paid every farthing of the poor rates.
 Mr. Lucas  quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that in a variety of cases the working of this clause would be found to be surrounded with difficulties. The first was, that the occupier, who was generally a person very little above a state of destitution himself, was to be called on to advance the amount of this rate for his landlord. English Gentlemen ought not to suppose that they had to do with rich substantial farmers to whom a trifling outlay was a matter of no consequence. The poor Irish farmers had no cash in bank—and such was the poverty of that class in general, that even their charity was given in kind—and, therefore, even the smallest sum was of the greatest possible consequence to them. He would first advert to the case of the occupier, who according to the Bill was to pay no part of the rate, and yet, nevertheless, the clause then under consideration made him a banker for his landlord, and he would be forced to advance the amount of a rate, of which, eventually, he was to bear no share. This he considered a very great hardship on the occupier. But even where one-half of the rate was to be paid by the occupier, he would be subject to great hardships, also, inasmuch as if the county cess collector was also to collect the poor-rate, the occupier had to pay the rate long before the period he was usually called on to pay his rent. The hon. Member concluded by stating his intention of moving a proviso to remove the payment from the occupier.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said, that he thought
 956 "Provided always, that no alteration of
 957 958 l., alio intuitu, l. 959 960 961
 Mr. Shaw  said, that it was not true that the whole burden of the poor rate must eventually be borne by the land, and that the real interest of landlord and tenant was
 982 l.,
 Mr. Shaw  would willingly save the occupier from any unreasonable liability or vexation; but it would be impracticable to collect the rate unless the occupier were in the first instance made liable; and, after all, it would be but paying so much rent on the part of the occupier to be afterwards stopped from the landlord in the proportion that he was eventually liable; and it was desirable that the occupier, as well as the landlord, should be interested in keeping down the rate.
 Mr. Shaw  said, the principle of that clause could not be acted upon if the tithe-owner were separately rated—for first, under the 60th Clause, tithe composition was to be deducted in estimating the net annual value of the lands; and then, under the 69th Clause, the landlord was to pay a poundage upon his whole rent, which, in every lease made since 1832, must also include the tithe composition. That would entirely change the proportions between landlord and tenant, and defeat the scale proposed by the bill. The simple and the just course would be, to put the tithe-owner upon the same footing with the landlord—making the occupier pay, in the first instance, for the whole rate, and then letting him or the landlord, as the case might be, stop the tithe-owner's proportion in the payment of the tithe composition.
 Mr. Pease  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, whether he had received a memorial, most numerously and respectably signed by the inhabitants of Hertfordshire, praying for a
 951
 Mr. P. Scrope  hoped the sinister forebodings of the hon. Member for Dublin would not be realised; and if the Bill should pass, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin would neither by his letters nor speeches incite the occupiers to resist the Bill.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  objected to the withdrawal of the clause. It would be attended with extreme difficulty to collect the share of the rate from each individual interest, and he therefore thought it better to collect it from the occupier. He did not consider that any practical inconvenience would arise from the clause, and those who took a different view he thought were rather too romantic.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  thought, the case
 981 s.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  remarked, that it was but fair if a tenant derived from any property he occupied the interest of a proprietor to a certain extent, he should, to that extent be liable to be rated as a landlord.
 Mr. Redington  said, that what was wanted in Ireland was the introduction of capital, and he therefore, thought it most unwise to tax the occupier of the soil.
 Mr. Wyse  saw no reason why one-third should be the tenants' proportion of the rate instead of one-half; and if that principle was admitted into the poor-law, why should it not be extended to the county cess?
 Mr. W. Roche  said, he meant to vote for the postponement of the clause. If the cess were to be levied from the occupiers, the scenes of the old tithe campaigns would be renewed.
 Sir Edmund Hayes  hoped her Majesty's Government would not consent to postpone the clause. He could not concur in the view taken by his hon. Colleague (Colonel Conolly) with respect to this clause. He thought it would be better to reject the bill altogether, than adopt the suggestions thrown out by many hon. Members. After the matter had been so fully discussed, he did not feel justifiable in again going over the same ground. He should, therefore, content himself with declaring his intention to vote against the postponement of the clause.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that the statement of the noble Lord with respect to the Grand Caymans, was substantially, if not perfectly, correct. The case had been brought under the attention of the Government at the time when the noble Lord was at the head of the Colonial department, by a memorial which had been presented to Lord Mulgrave, then governor of Jamaica, and had been transmitted by that noble Lord to the home Government. Shortly afterwards a change took place in the administration, and Lord Aberdeen, when he succeeded to office, referred the question to the law officers of the Crown, who gave it as their unqualified opinion, that under the circumstances all the slaves in the island were unconditionally free. His noble Friend who succeeded to the Colonial-office, recommended Lord Sligo, who was then governor of Jamaica, to act upon that opinion. This had been done, and the slaves were all liberated, and he was happy to say, that no inconvenience had resulted from the proceeding. The conduct of both the freed slaves and the white population was deserving of all approbation, though no regular system of law had existed in the island. It was thought, that the island was a dependency of Jamaica, and that it should receive a portion of the compensation fund voted to Jamaica, and it was thought, that the case was exactly similar to that of the island of Anguilla. There was, however, an unwillingness on the part of the legislature of Jamaica to have this island annexed, for the purposes of government, to that colony, and he did not think the smaller island had lost by it. The governor of Jamaica had, therefore, sent some magistrates to the Grand Caymans, who acted under the instructions received from the governor, and they found no difficulty in administering the law. With respect to the future government of the settlement, there was some intention of proposing that it should be placed under the rule of the Queen in Council, and this matter was now under consideration. As to a grant of money for the education of the negroes, he could only state, that a sum had been given for that purpose to the secretary for the Propagation of the Gospel in foreign parts, and he believed some steps had been taken for the instruction of the negroes in that settlement. He could only add, that he could not hold out the slightest hope of any addition being made to the compensation granted
 954
 The Attorney-General  was understood to say, that the question before the House was, whether the resolution of the 25th June, 1835, relating to the correction of the register, ought to be rescinded or not. He trusted, that he should be able to con-
 962 primâ facie 963 vexata qustio, 964 in futuro. 965 966 de novo? 967
 The Attorney-General : That made his argument still stronger. The assistant-barrister for Cork found the names erased by the clerk of the peace, and, acting on his own opinion of the law—which he was well qualified to form—he actually restored them to the registry with the Speaker's warrant under his very eyes. What had the House done to vindicate the authority of that warrant? Nothing—absolutely nothing. And why? Because, upon consideration, the House felt that it had not the power which it claimed, either by common law or by statute law. The power had been clearly conferred on the Committee by the English Reform Act—it had not been so clearly conferred by the Scotch Reform Act—and it had not been conferred at all by the Irish Reform Act. The resolution of 1835 was, therefore, not according to law. He was willing to take his share of the blame of having recommended that resolution: for he thought it much wiser, and much better to amend an error than to persist in it after it was discovered.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  could not help wondering, that the hon. and learned Member should in no respect have addressed himself to the proposition made by his right hon. Friend, that of suspending a decision upon this question. He was quite willing to admit, that this subject was embarrassed by many difficulties, and he felt, that they could only be satisfactorily disposed of by a declaratory Act. That, he thought, was the safest method of settling cases of this kind. Many points were not provided for by law, and were left to be decided by resolutions of the House. In numerous instances, however, the inconvenience of that course had been experienced, and it had been found necessary to legislate afresh on doubtful matters, as the resolutions of the House could not be equally binding with Acts of Parliament. He confessed he would much prefer, that the resolution of 1835 be suspended, and that they should abstain at present from pronouncing any decision as to the question which had been raised upon it. On the best consideration he could give the matter, he concurred with his right hon. and learned Friend in thinking, that the House possessed an inherent right to regulate elections, which could only be limited by an Act of Parliament, and that where no Act existed to restrain this jurisdiction, it could not be taken away by implication. He hoped the noble Lord would postpone his resolutions till the cases of controverted elections at present before the House were finished, with the view of then deciding the points in question by an Act of Parliament.
 Lord Clements  complained that the Irish landlords in the House were placed, by the conduct of the Government in respect to this subject, in a very disagreeable position—that of being called upon to say, whether they would pay one-half or two-thirds of the rate, which was a question, of all others, the Irish landlords were unfit to decide, and which ought to be left to the decision of the English Members, who would be, at least, impartial judges.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the noble Lord ought to have directed his censure to the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. O'Brien), who, himself a landlord, brought forward the proposition for reducing the tenant's proportion of the rate from one-half to one-third. After what had passed, the Government would adhere to the clause as it stood. He hoped the hon. Member for Limerick would not divide the Committee.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he could not consent to the postponement of the clause. It would be extremely difficult for the guardians to ascertain who the real owners of the land were, and it was, therefore, necessary to make the land itself subject to the rate. Payment and control ought to go together, and it would scarcely be contended that if the landlords were alone
 979
 Viscount Palmerston  trusted, that the report was not only untrue but unfounded. He should not say altogether unfounded, because the circumstances he should detail to the House gave some colour to it. The
 950
 Mr. S. O'Brien  moved an amendment, to the effect that the receivers of rent-charges, annuities, and jointures should be
 990
 Mr. O'Connell  believed the act would produce nothing but disgust if it excepted annuitants, who, for the most part, had abundant means, and were not otherwise taxed.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, he would divide in favour of the substitution of the word, "ten" for that of "five." As the bill stood it was perfectly absurd to make the most wretched peasantry of Ireland the bankers of their landlords, by advancing money for them which they were afterward to deduct from the rent.
 Mr. O'Connell  contended that this clause gave a power to the landlord over the tenant which was not sanctioned by the law as it now stood, and which, if attempted to be carried into operation, must work great injustice. This clause gave the landlord the power of ejecting his tenant for nonpayment of rent, though it might happen that he had paid in poor rate the sum to which he was really liable. This proof the tenant had no opportunity of giving, for the right of action was taken away from him. Now, how stood the law at present? No action for ejectment would lie unless it was proved, that the tenant got credit for any sum he might have advanced for the landlord, and that after so doing, a full year's rent remained due. But by this clause, the tenant was not allowed the same advantage with respect to payments made on account of the poor-rate which they were about to establish, as he now possessed with regard to all other advances made by him in favour of the landlord. He defied any hon. Member to produce any but one, apparently, just reason for conferring this exorbitant power on the landlord, and that was, that he might not know what sum was paid for rates by the tenant. But this difficulty might be easily removed by requiring the landlord to serve a notice on the tenant, demanding that he should state how much he had paid for rate, and, in case of his refusing to answer, that he
 995 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was his solemn opinion that this bill would amount to an actual confiscation on the part of the landlords and tenants; by its present limits it could not go far enough to prevent this. It was only upon comparing its operation on landlords and tenants that he said it was a landlord's bill. He did not deny, that the landlord ought to have some remedy to recover the surplus of his rent after the poor-rates were paid; but he would suppose a case where 50 l. l. l.; l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that unless there was an entire year's rent due, no ejectment could be brought. That was the law. An ejectment was to recover the land, and not the rent, and yet if a tenant had paid 30 l. l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that he saw there was one word in the proviso which would bear the construction of the right hon. Member—viz., that where the rent was entirely paid in poor-rates, an ejectment would not lie; so far he conceded, but if 49 l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved the following amendment to the clause:—"That deduction on account of any payment of rate under this act shall be held to be a discharge of any portion of any gale, or quarterly or other payment of rent, due from the person entitled to make such deduction, so as to prejudice the right of any landlord to recover the possession of any hereditaments by ejectment for non-payment of the rent thereof, but that it shall and may be lawful in any case where the remaining portion of such gale shall be unpaid; for such landlord to proceed for the re-
 998
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to the clause, as granting a plurality of votes for the election of guardians. The system of plural voting had, in all cases where it had been adopted, operated badly, and he would therefore move as an amendment, that the words "or votes" be left out.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  had an amendment to propose in regard to the present clause. As the clause was framed, the scale of voting gave, in his opinion, an unfair influence to property, and he should therefore move an alteration in the scale, and also a limitation
 1000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved, that the words "by ballot" be substituted for the words "in writing."
 Mr. S. O'Brien  supported the amendmen E
 Colonel Conolly  contended, that the amendment, if adopted, would tend to depreciate Irish property, and render it more difficult to borrow money upon land.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he believed there was considerable difficulty about the clause, and he felt some doubt about the course which ought to be pursued in reference to it. The most that they could do in legislation of this sort was to lay down a general rule or principle. If exceptions were found to arise in particular districts and under particular circumstances, it could not be helped. The difficulty in the case was, that they must either adopt an arbitrary line, which should be universal and uniform in its application, or they should have no line at all. The question which he considered of the greatest importance was, whether the bill would be likely to work so well without some line as with it. They would in the former case have a small class of tenants paying rates and having the right to vote, the payments from whom would
 992
 Mr. E. Litton  considered it to be extremely improbable, even supposing a tenant paid 49 l. s. l. s. s. s. d. l.
 Mr. Lucas  did not approve of the arbitrary line laid down by the noble Lord. He found, upon examination, that the average of all occupations in Ireland did not exceed 7 l.
 Mr. F. French  objected to the clause and wished it to be omitted. He contended that it would hold out a great temptation to landlords to raise the rent of Houses above 5 l.
 Mr. Shaw  supported the amendment, and stated a case in which an estate producing annually 1,100 l. l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  thought, it would be better to have one uniform mode of rating throughout this bill, and that in all cases the occupier should pay the rate. This would give the tenant an interest, which it s fit he should have, in the appointment of guardians, and in the disposition of the funds of his parish.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to this clause, because it would prejudice the tenant, and also if any part of the rent were paid in poor-rates the landlord would be deprived of any remedy for recovering the residue. The interests of landlords and tenants were identical, and this bill ought not to give either one an advantage over the other; at the same time this was a dangerous experiment to be tried on the landed interests of Ireland, for it was not so much a question between landlords and tenants as between the landed interests and destitution. If the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sergeant Woulfe) said, that the object was only to protect the landlord from paying the poor-rates of the tenant, he should be satisfied.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  thought the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had explained the difficulty of the right hon. Member who had just spoken, in saying that the landlord's remedy by ejectment was the only one interfered with in this clause; but the tenant got credit from the landlord for the amount of the poor-rates, and yet the landlord's action for the remainder would be as vigorous as ever; he might bring an action for the gale rent minus the poor-rates. There was no case in law in which a partial payment on account of the landlord would deprive him of that remedy. The Tithe Act was framed so as to give the tenant the power to deduct the amount of tithes from the rent due to the landlord, and yet not deprive the landlord of his remedy for the residue. In his opinion, the clause did all that was fair to the landlord without being harsh upon the tenant. It would certainly be hard on the landlord to deprive him of ejectment or some means of recovering his It would certainly be hard on the landlord to deprive him of ejectment or some means of recovering his
 996
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  observed, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin said, a tenant might pay all the amount of rent in poor-rates, and yet be liable to his landlord; but under this clause all poor-rates paid were equivalent to rent paid to the landlord. He denied the possibility of a
 997
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  observed, that the ejectment would be brought for the residue, and not for the entire rent.
 Mr. Lefroy  thought, that the clause would operate prejudicially, in leading landlords to increase their rents on the poor man, or to add to the evils which arose from clearing estates of small holdings. He should therefore support the amendment of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French).
 Mr. Lefroy  supported the clause, for he thought the case put by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin a very extreme one, and not at all likely to occur in practice.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  objected to the proposition of the hon. Member for Roscommon, on the ground, that as all the rate-payers were to vote in the election of guardians, the omission of this clause whould let in a set of voters directly interested in the mismanagement of the measure.
 Mr. Wyse  objected to this clause, on the ground that it would encourage absenteeism, and moved that it be omitted.
 Sir C. Style  moved, that 10 l. l.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the motives for,
 999
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it was the intention of Government, by the interpretation clause, to extend the operation of this clause to all rent-charges in the nature of fee-farm rents; but it would be a new principle in law to subject to a charge of this sort jointures, annuities, and marriage portions.
 Sir G. Strickland  was most anxious to concur in any measure which would have the effect of increasing the respectability and efficiency of the office of county coroner; but anything that seemed good in this measure was much more than counterbalanced by its objectionable features. He altogether repudiated the principle of depriving the freeholders of the right of electing the coroner, and giving it to the magistrates; nor could he regard the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) as in the slightest degree less objectionable.
 The Marquess of Chandos  thought, the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member was neither more nor less than a second edition of the motion for a repeal of the Corn-laws lately made. He was persuaded that extensive frauds would be committed during the process of removing the corn from the Queen's warehouses, and that a great alteration in the price of corn throughout the country would take place. The hon. Member's bill would, in fact, if carried, go far to repeal the Corn-laws, and he therefore thought it fair to state, that he should give it all the opposition in his power in its passage through the House. He was aware that her Majesty's Ministers took a different view of the question, and intended to support the hon. and gallant Member's motion. He regretted this extremely, remembering the course they had taken a few nights since on the question of the repeal of the Corn-laws, and he certainly could not have expected that they would so soon support an extensive alteration in those laws.
 Colonel Wood , notwithstanding the alarm which had been expressed by the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, could not help regretting that the noble Marquess should have felt it his duty to
 1090
 Mr. Miles  asked the noble Marquess to allow the Bill to be introduced, and to watch its provisions, taking care that sufficient guards were provided. If, on the second reading, the Bill was proper to be adopted it could be adopted; and it would show that those who supported the agricultural interests in that House could feel for others who were bound by the same link. But if the guards were insufficient, then it could be rejected, for the agricultural interest leagued together, formed a body which no Administration could successfully resist.
 Mr. Miles  asked his noble Friend (the Marquess of Chandos) to allow the Bill to be brought in, with the view of seeing whether it could be supported on the second reading. By this proceeding, those who supported the landed interest in that House would prove that they considered themselves bound, by the principles of a common fraternity, to promote the general interest of the community.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that there was one sentiment uttered by the hon. Member who had just spoken, that he so entirely agreed with, that he could not forbear rising to express his concurrence in it; namely, that there were so many rogues in grain in this House, that it was difficult to know what course to take on this measure, and if he wanted any illustration of that, he should refer to the debate last night, which was highly instructive as to the spirit and object of our legislation; for he observed that the debate opened to-night with a speech from the noble Marquess in that sturdy and exclusive spirit with which he was used to advocate the interest of the landed class, and disregard the interest of any other class, and which doubtless was consistent with his notions of what was right; but as the debate advanced, new lights were shed upon the subject; first, by one Member who rose and assured the House, that it would be of little advantage to the country at large; and he was followed by
 1094
 Mr. Wynn  would offer a few observations to the House upon the subject of this bill. With regard to the suggestions which had fallen from the hon. Member for Bridport, that all the labour of the author, and the expense of the original publication of a work ought not to be considered, but that the advantage of the public was alone to be regarded, he must say, that if that were acted upon, all copyright would be at an end. No reward would be afforded to the author, and all books which were published might be obtained after a short delay, at a price giving a fair profit on the expense of printing and paper. However favourable he might be to the principle of the bill of the right hon. Gentleman, he could not but think that the difficulties which would present themselves to its being carried fairly into execution would be very great. Whatever treaty might be entered into between England and France, Belgium might print the books so like the originals as to defy all attempts to discover the difference, and he hardly knew how this was to be remedied. It was true this precise species of imitation was not now carried on; but then the necessity for it did not exist, for there was no international copyright. As an instance of the success with which the practice might be adopted, he would mention the case of  The Edinburgh Review, 1107
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that every person who was unfortunately obliged to become the inmate of a workhouse ought to be entitled as a matter of right to attend at the place of religious worship of the sect to which he belonged. If the pauper abused that right, then it might be taken away from him; but if he did not, he ought to have the right clearly and distinctly defined. He considered it to be a matter of great importance, that among the inmates of our workhouses a religious feeling should be encouraged. He submitted to the House whether it would not be advisable, if this instruction were unnecessary, to add the name of Mr. Langdale to the Poor-law Committee, in order that this subject be fully investigated.
 Mr. Langdale , in reply, stated, that the instances which he had cited had been given to him by Roman Catholic clergymen, and he had no doubt that they were correct. He had looked through the reports of the Poor-law Committee, and he did not find that this subject had been much inquired into until the last report. In that report, he found that the hon. Member for Leeds had asked Mr. Power, the Assistant-Commissioner, "Do you let the paupers go out of the workhouse on Sundays, to their respective places of worship?" And the answer was, "Sometimes we do; sometimes we do not." He was then specifically asked, "Do you let the Roman Catholic paupers leave the workhouse on a Sunday, to go to their chapels?" and the answer was, "I have always thought that this question, as to the Roman Catholics, was a difficult question, and that it would some time or other arise." He (Mr. Langdale) said, "the sooner it arose the better." All that he wanted was, that it should not be left in
 1112
 Mr. Langdale , in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, assured the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, that he was not actuated by the slightest hostility to the New Poor-laws, his object simply being that the 19th clause should be carried into effect, so as to secure religious freedom in the workhouse by allowing the poor, who had the means within their reach, to attend their own places of worship on the Sabbath day. It was chiefly with respect to those who agreed with him in religious opinions, who could not conscientiously join in the worship of those of another communion, being bound under pain of incurring moral guilt to attend mass on Sunday,—it was chiefly with reference to Roman Catholics that he had been induced to bring the matter forward. In most cases he was ready to admit, especially in the metropolis, and generally in large towns, no ground for objection existed—Dissenters being allowed to attend their own places of worship. But some exceptions existed, and he feared they might be drawn into cases of persecution. In St. Martin's parish, Westminster, he believed full permission was given to the
 1109
 Lord Worsley  could not give his vote against the measure when he saw interests that would be benefited by it, and could not conscientiously say, that the agricultural interests would be injured. He should, therefore, support the first reading of the Bill. He had come down to the House intending to oppose the Bill; but he could not do so after what he had heard in its favour.
 Mr. Liddell  said, that he had brought his mind to the consideration of this subject, free from the influence of any bias towards one side or the other; and after the assurance of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, that no risk was to be apprehended to the agricultural interest from this measure, if there were found sufficient securities provided in the Bill against smuggling, such securities, in fact, as were promised, being persuaded, that so far from an injury or disadvantage resulting from the measure, the landed interest would find it opening to them another resource, he should vote for the motion.
 Lord John Russell  said, that this was a question which had been partially inquired
 1110
 Lord John Russell  thought, that the hon. Gentleman opposite had taken a mistaken view of the question. Surely France would be greatly benefitted, if the introduction into this country of the works of her authors, printed in Brussels, were prohibited; while, on the other hand, it would be a very great advantage to us, to have a stop put to the publishing in France of
 1102
 Lord John Russell  said, that there were at present three Gentlemen on the Poor-law Committee who never attended any of its sittings. If the hon. Member for Knaresborough would consent to serve, he should readily propose to put his name upon the Committee.
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of answering the question which had just been put to him by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The Bill respecting the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts in England, had certainly occupied the attention of her Majesty's Ministers for a considerable time, and when last noticed in Parliament, was under the consideration of the House of Lords. The Bill was much considered in that House; various suggestions were offered for its improvement; and beyond a doubt it was amended in many parts. Still, it was the general opinion in that House, that the Bill ought not to be proceeded with, except a Bill for the better discipline of the clergy could be carried at the same time. The frame of such a Bill had been drawn out, but he must candidly confess that he was not entirely satisfied with the measure proposed, and the Bill for the better discipline of the clergy was, in consequence, postponed. There were other bills under the consideration of Government relating to ecclesiastical jurisdictions
 1113
 Lord John Russell  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to carry into effect, with certain modifications, the fourth report of the Church Commissioners.
 Lord John Russell  thought, there was no necessity for being so delicate as his hon. Friend opposite seemed to think proper, since the measure he proposed to introduce was originally recommended by a church commission appointed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, and of which the right hon. Gentleman and other Members of his administration were Members. After the right hon. Baronet retired from office, several Members of the present Government sat on the Commission, the clerical Members of which continued the same. On the report made by that Commission, a bill formerly introduced into the House was founded; and he now proposed to bring in a measure nearly similar in its provisions. He did not think it too much to ask leave, even if the time were an hour later, to introduce a bill founded on such authority, because he did not think that the House could at any time refuse to entertain such a bill, and allow it to be printed, in order that its principle might be fairly considered. The measure was founded on the fourth report of the Church Commissioners, the whole of which he proposed to recite in the preamble. Some alterations had been made
 1114 1115 l., l.,
 Lord J. Russell  considered the main principle of the bill to be to transfer the appointment of coroners from the free-
 1079
 Mr. A. Chapman  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the President of the Board of Trade, that it was altogether impossible that fraud could take place, by allowing foreign corn, in bond, to be converted into flour. He spoke from his own knowledge of such matters, and upon twenty years experience of the London Docks, during which period he had never known of even the least abstraction of valuable property, or of any neglect which could bring bonded warehouses into disrepute. He thought they might as well allow captains of vessels to take out flour with them, as to take it in at Hamburgh. By allowing foreign flower to be exported, they would give employment to a great number of industrious persons, and no detriment could arise to the agricultural interests.
 Mr. C. Lushington  seconded the motion.
 Colonel Sibthorp  was disposed to give the hon. Member credit for sincerity in what he had stated to the House, though he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman in his opinion as to the harmless nature of the Bill. He objected to it, because he thought it was a direct encouragement to the importation of foreign corn, an evil which the Corn-laws were passed to guard against. He cautioned the House against putting any confidence in the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the President of the Board of Trade) or his supporters, in this or any other matter. He had a very great respect for the Queen, but the Queen's locks were very different things. Of the security or integrity of these he did not entertain a very high opinion. He wished to God that her Majesty's Ministers would take his advice. If they did they would walk out of the House on the present occasion, and allow the two parties to fight the battle fairly without their interference. That, however, they would not be allowed to do, in consequence, no doubt, of some Downing-street arrangement.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  rose, with great pleasure, to answer the call that had been made upon him by the right hon. Baronet. He could assure the right hon. Baronet that he was glad to find, from what he had stated, that they entirely understood each other. As the right hon. Baronet had done him the honour to appeal to him for his opinion he would give it, and, in doing so, he thought he might safely refer to his conduct on a former occasion when this subject was under discussion, for the purpose of showing that he was not disposed to do anything by a side wind, which would, in the slightest degree, defeat the Corn-laws, or anything by which the landed interest could be deprived in the least degree of the benefit, if one it were, which the present state of the laws afforded them. Last year, it would be in the recollection of the House, a bill was introduced by Mr. Robinson, the Member for Worcester, for grinding bonded corn, the plan of which was proportional, or in other words, that a certain amount of foreign corn should be taken out of bond, and introduced into the consumption of this country, and that a certain quantity of English corn should be exported in lieu of the foreign corn thus introduced. To this proposition he had refused his acquiescence, because he was of opinion, that it would give rise to fraud. But the proposition of the hon. Member for Dartmouth (Colonel Seale) was of an entirely different nature. That hon. Member seemed scarcely to have done justice to his case, but as the hon. Member had been good enough to show him the bill which he had prepared, he would speak of the bill rather more than of the explanation of the hon. Member. The bill which the hon. Member proposed to introduce, as he read it, went simply to this extent, that corn which was in bond in this country might be ground under the Queen's locks, and that the whole produce, whatever that produce might be, should be exported, security being given for the exportation of the whole. The right hon. Baronet appealed to him, and asked him whether he could get up in his place and
 1084 1085 1086 1087
 Mr. Poulelt Thomson , in reply, admitted, that the subject was attended with great difficulties, but he had felt it his duty to endeavour to grapple with them. If those difficulties were found to be insuperable, his Bill would not possibly do any harm, for it would only become a dead letter; but it was only by a bill of this kind, that we could be put in a position to endeavour to overcome the difficulties in question. He confessed that he anticipated more difficulty from the United States than from any other country; but with reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman,
 1108
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to establish a system of international copyright, and said, that in introducing this measure to the House he thought it right to say something with regard to the objects which he proposed to effect. It was not his intention in this Bill to
 1097 1098 Travels in America, Elements of Physical Science, 1099 1100
 Mr. G. Palmer  was of opinion that if the Bill was passed, not a single atom of flour, bread, or biscuit, of British produce would be taken out by captains of ships. They would be wholly supplied and victualled with the foreign corn in bond, which would be had upon cheaper terms than the home produce.
 Mr. Barron  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate the jurisdiction of ecclesiastical courts in Ireland.
 Mr. Goulburn  availed himself of the opportunity to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department what had become of the Bill, which had been introduced some time ago by her Majesty's Ministers for the purpose of regulating and consolidating the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts in England. If her Majesty's Ministers were not prepared to bring in such a Bill for England, what probable chance of success was there for such a Bill affecting Ireland? How could the noble Lord give his assent to the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for Waterford, when he was not prepared to introduce a similar Bill for England? But perhaps the noble Lord was prepared to take up the subject so far as regarded England?
 Mr. Goulburn  confessed, that he felt considerable difficulty as to the mode in which the objects of the bill were to be carried out; and one of the points which struck him the most forcibly was the question whether, in the event of England binding itself by means of a convention with France, that country was to be bound not to receive books from Belgium, the copyrights of which belonged to England, but which had been improperly printed elsewhere, and also whether England was to bind itself to receive no French books, unless from France itself. That was one of the greatest difficulties which suggested itself to his mind, for those who, for the benefit of their own trade, pirated the works of others, would take care to mark the work which they published with the name of the country from which it originally proceeded, so that the whole work would bear the strongest resemblance to the originals and the greatest difficulty would
 1105
 Mr. G. Knight  said, that from his experience of a very large workhouse, he believed that the noble Lord was perfectly justified in apprehending that mischief would arise from granting a general permission to the inmates of workhouses to leave them on Sundays, under the pretence that they wished to go to their different places of religious worship.
 Mr. Warburton  observed, that though he had heard so much about the interests of authors, he still could not help recollecting that there was a reading public, and that the diffusion of cheap editions of good books was one of the greatest public benefits that could be conferred. The effect of smuggling was to prevent the manufacturer from setting too high a price upon his goods. By these measures of
 1104
 Mr. Warburton  said, it appeared to him that the present question differed totally from the question of a repeal of the Corn-laws which had been lately before the House. The question they had discussed a few nights since was, whether they would allow corn to be imported for the consumption of the inhabitants of this country; that which they were now considering was, whether they would allow it to be ground at home, not for home consumption, but for exportation. The mercantile and manufacturing interests would be greatly benefitted if the House should determine to grant that permission, for a new branch of trade to the colonies and foreign countries would be opened, which would afford room for the investment of a large amount of capital, and give employment to a great number of labourers, while
 1082
 Mr. Warburton , although he would not then absolutely object to the bringing in of the Bill, would, when in Committee, give to some of its clauses his most decided opposition. The hon. Member for Droitwich professed to base his Bill upon the Municipal Reform Act, which gave the appointment of coroner to the town councils; but there was no analogy between the town councils and the magistrates in quarter sessions. The town councils were elective bodies; and, although the election was not quite popular, yet it was nearly so, whereas the magistrates in quarter sessions were not at all elective. It would be subversive altogether of the objects of the institution of coroner to give the appointment to the magistrates, whose conduct it would be the duty of the coroners to investigate. For instance, in a case where lives had been lost in a riot the question for the coroner might be whether there had been sufficient cause to justify the magistrates in ordering the Riot Act to be read. It was important that the judicial officer who had that inquiry to conduct should be properly chosen, and not appointed by the magistrates. The office was one which, above all others, ought to be held by popular election; but he had no objection to a better regulation as to the mode of election. Unless it was declared that coroners' courts were to be open he thought that in the instances where the conduct of the Government or the magistrates was to be investigated the public would be excluded. Such being his opinion, he should, in Committee, move the insertion of a clause that the courts of all coroners should be open.
 Mr. Collier  seconded the motion. He did not support this measure, as a step to the repeal of the Corn-laws, and he would not do so if he thought it would prove injurious to the landed interest.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, he could not conscientiously give his support to the introduction of this measure. He should, however, name the particulars of the grounds of his opposition on another opportunity, should it occur. He candidly acknowledged that if he supported this proposition he could not face his constituents. He regarded this measure with distrust when he considered it on its own merits: but if he had a doubt on the point, the fact that this motion was supported by her Majesty's Ministers would be with him decisive; for he considered them incapable of originating or supporting any measure for the public good.
 Mr. Cripps  seconded the motion for leave to bring in the Bill. The subject was one that he had brought forward three different times most thanklessly for the last two years; but he trusted the difficulties he had met with would not beset the hon. Member who now brought it forward. He objected to giving the whole of the power of appointing coroners to the magistrates at quarter sessions, but still he
 1077
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the hon. Member for Bridport in the arguments which he had advanced, that the interests of the public should be considered rather than those of one individual. The public had already benefitted much by the introduction of cheap copies of various works in recent years, and he would ask the House how these cheap publications had been produced? Formerly whenever a person went to the Continent he was in the habit of bringing home with him a number of their piracies upon English works, but it was now found that those copies were incorrect; and, in consequence, publications equally cheap had been introduced into England. Added to this, however, there were certain matters in the book trade and in the mode in which it was conducted which must be inquired into before any means could be adopted to remedy the defects in the law of international copyright. He should be happy to see a bill passed which would give individuals everything to which they were entitled: but the injustice which might be done to society at large must be considered before any such bill was agreed to. Difficulties had been stated which, he thought, it would be impossible to remedy. He should be glad if means could be taken to remove them, but he had no idea that it was possible.
 Mr. Philip Howard  said, that the hon. Baronet, the Member for Northampton-
 1092 1093
 Mr. Milnes  thought the measure of the right hon. Gentleman might be easily carried into operation with countries with which our relations were very clear and simple—such as America; but he doubted the possibility of its operation with European countries, because, by any such agreement as it proposed, we should be greatly the gainers, and it would consequently be very difficult, if indeed possible, to induce them to submit to the terms of the proposal. Everybody knew that the circulation of English books in France
 1101
 Colonel Rushbrooke  said, he was afraid of rogues in grain, and that it would be impossible to guard against evasion. More, he thought, in this measure was meant than met the ear.
 Mr. Wakley  was of opinion, that such a measure as the present should be preceded by the fullest and most ample inquiry before it was adopted. He should like to learn what literary man had ever lost anything, or had complained that his interests had suffered, by his works having been pirated. When any person wrote a book, he wrote it for the English people, and for the purposes of his country, and he never reflected on what might be effected by its being published in a foreign country. Dr. Arnott was a man who had written many excellent works which had been widely read through England, Ireland, and Scotland, and which had since found their way
 1106
 Mr. Wakley  hoped the House would not sanction the introduction of this Bill, which he considered in many points much more objectionable than that which had been introduced so often, and at last abandoned, by the hon. Member for Cirencester. One of the objects of the proposed Bill was greatly to increase the pay of county coroners, and double the mileage they received under the Act of last Session. In
 1078
 Mr. Gladstone  hoped, that before the second reading of this Bill, ample time would be given for consideration, as the question involved was one of daily increasing interest, and required the most mature deliberation.
 Mr. W. Roche  felt compelled to state the views of his constituents as urged in several petitions presented to that House. They were of opinion that this experiment could not be made without fraudulent practices, and that mercantile men should not be compelled to adapt their course of business to a state of things different from that on which they had originally speculated.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that this measure would be beneficial to the merchant, inasmuch as it would convert an unmerchantable into a merchantable commodity, and let loose a large amount of British capital invested in foreign wheat. Immense capital had been employed in other countries in mills for manufacturing flour. Though he was no friend to the Corn-laws, he would not be a party to any indirect measure against them; but he was satisfied that alarm was felt at a shadow.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  denied the charge of selfishness, brought against the agriculturists by the hon. Member for Bridport. If corn could be kept with security under the Queen's locks to be ground and then exported, without the risk of fraudulent tricks, he would not object to a motion for the purpose; but he understood this question to be essentially different. He understood the hon. and gallant Member's proposition to be substantially this—let corn be ground in the Custom-house while under lock, but as soon as it is ground into flour, let the person whose property it is take it out to the markets of this country and sell it. He understood it so undoubtedly, and if such were the nature of the proposition, there would be no security for the British grower, in the event of its being carried. If the corn, however, were not to be brought into the British market, but to be exported again, he should not entertain any great objection to the motion, though he hardly expected that it would be productive of much good. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade, who was perfectly cognizant of, and well versed in, the details of this subject, would
 1083
 Sir E. Knatchbull  had great respect for the office and functions of county coroners; at the same time he thought it would be much better, if, instead of there being only three or four persons who could exercise those functions within large counties, every considerable town had an officer of its own. He could not give his consent to the introduction of this Bill, because, in the first place, it would take from the freeholders the right they now possessed of electing and appointing coroners—a right which he never would invade, while, at the same time, it would impose a very heavy additional expense on the counties.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that as ample security as was possible had been offered for the honest intentions, with respect to the Corn-laws, of the hon. Member for Dartmouth, and, indeed, of every hon. Member on that side of the House who supported the motion. The question was one of great importance to the shipping interest. He believed that it was of great importance to let corn come into this country to be ground, and again exported at certain times of the year, when the ports of the Baltic were shut up. Another
 1088 1089
 Mr. Pakington , in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, on the subject of county coroners, entreated the indulgence of the House, of which he stood in great need. He was about to propose very considerable alterations in one of the most ancient and important of their institutions; and he felt diffidence in approaching the subject when he considered that one of the oldest and most experienced Members of that House, his hon. Friend, the Member for Cirencester, had been baffled in his many endeavours to bring about that alteration. He regretted that the subject had not been brought forward by her Majesty's Government, as it was one well worthy of their consideration. The object of this Bill was principally to put an end to the vexatious and harassing contested elections by which many counties in the kingdom have been at various times disturbed. He wished to see men capable of filling the situation obtain it without the ruinous expense it had hitherto entailed upon them, and he wished to increase the compensation which had hitherto been awarded to these functionaries. It was not necessary to detain the House by pointing out the anomalies and inconveniences of the present system. Three modes had suggested themselves which have all been made the subjects of enactments submitted to that House. One was, to restrict the franchise by disfranchising all below the value of forty shillings, and confining it to those who had a right to vote for Members of Parliament for counties. Another mode
 1074 1075 1076 l. s. d. s. d. d.
 Sir J. R. Reid  begged to return thanks to the right hon. Baronet, and the President of the Board of Trade, for the manner in which the question of the right hon. Baronet had been put, and the manner in which it had been answered. If the measure militated in any way against the agricultural interest, he would not give it his support; but, the contrary, as far as he could judge, being its probable effect, he should vote for the motion of the hon. Member for Dartmouth.
 Colonel Seale  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice—namely, for leave to bring in a bill to admit, under certain regulations, foreign corn bonded in this country to be ground in certain mills and manufactured for exportation only. He understood that it was necessary in point of form that he should commence with the preliminary motion, that the House do now resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider the regulations under which foreign corn was admitted to be bonded in this country. If he succeeded in that motion, he would move a resolution in the Committee with a view to introduce a bill, the provisions of which he would proceed to explain. The first would be a provision to empower the Commissioners of Customs to approve of the erection of certain buildings of a peculiar construction, for the bonding of foreign corn manufactured into flour. The second would be a provision to enable the Commissioners to deliver foreign corn bonded in this country to persons hiring or occupying such premises as he had already described, on the condition that within a certain time—say two months—the corn so manufactured into flour should be exported from this country, or else should be delivered back into bonded warehouses under the Queen's locks for exportation. The third would be a provision requiring further securities
 1080 1081
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that whatever might be the relative claims for protection of mechanical and literary pursuits, he was of opinion that the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues would find it extremely difficult to carry this measure into effect. He thought the more obvious course would have been to have asked other countries to pass in their respective legislatures, bills of an analogous nature before they proceeded upon a general principle, which left the reciprocity all on one side. The cases of piracy mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman might have been provided against by a course which Sir Walter Scott had himself adopted with his  Life of Napoleon.
 Sir Robert Inglis  thought, his noble Friend was almost the only Minister who would not, under the circumstances, have either made a fuller statement to the House, or made it at a more seasonable hour. The objections he entertained against the Bill, announced by the noble Lord, were, perhaps, stronger than those he had felt against the Bill he had brought in last year. He could never be reconciled to a bill, hostile to the constitution, perhaps to the existence of the Church, by any acquiescence in the spoliation of ecclesiastical property, which might be obtained by any boon offered in the measure to a particular class of proprietors. He felt it his duty to declare, as strongly as he could, his decided and unalterable aversion to the Bill. It was, in itself, injurious, and was one of a series of measures opposed to the best interests of the Church.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the noble Lord could not surely be intending, at a period of the night within a quarter of an hour of the usual time of adjournment, twelve o'clock, to introduce a measure designed to effect various extensive and important changes in the constitution of the Church.
 Lord Mahon  said, he was very glad to find that the attention of her Majesty's Government had been drawn to the subject, for it was one of very great importance, not only as regarded the interests of authors, but those of the public. One example he would mention to illustrate the extent to which the feelings, reputation, and property, of authors were affected by the present state of the law. There was, as probably many Members knew, a continuation of Sir James Mackintosh's historical work, which proved very inferior to the original both in style and sentiment. The whole work, or rather the two works, commencement and continuation, were published in France, the fact being suppressed that the latter part was by another and an inferior hand. The practical question, however, now before the House was this—how could redress be obtained? It appeared to him that the difficulty lay much more in negotiation with foreign states, than in legislation in that House; he regretted, therefore, that the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, was not then in his place, in order that the House might be informed if any
 1103 quid pro quo,
 Lord Sandon  was inclined to give the parties who were in favour of the present application the benefit of an experiment. He perfectly agreed with the hon. Member for Essex, that the offal was unfit for exportation, and it ought therefore to be turned to the best advantage of which it was capable.
 Sir G. Strickland   thought, the Bill entirely uncalled for, and very likely to be injurious.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the present commission was composed of all the judges, and bishops, and Protestant rectors in the city of Dublin, and the provost of Trinity College. The commission was exclusively Protestant, and he thought that a commission ought to be so formed as that no religious jealousy could possibly be supposed to exist. When it was considered that the Catholic Church was un-endowed (and he was glad it was so), and when all the charities from which it derived support were administered by a commission of this kind, he thought it important that they should have the most impartial tribunal. He thought the Bill ought to be read a second time, and when it went into Committee its provisions could be fully canvassed, and any alterations effected.
 Lord Worsley  moved the second reading of the Enclosure of Common Fields Bill.
 Lord Worsley  would not give the House the trouble of dividing.
 Lord Worsley  moved, that the Common Fields Improvement Bill be read a third time. He stated, that the object of the Bill was to provide for the enclosure of patches of waste land in the midst of arable fields, which obstructed the progress of improvement.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, it appeared to him that the Bill would authorise the enclosure of every common in England, even Hampstead-heath; and he, therefore, would recommend that, like the former, the Bill be withdrawn. The noble Lord's purpose, which he admitted to be a legitimate one, required a bill of a very different kind. It was wrong to attempt to remedy a particular mischief by a general enactment.
 Sir E. Sugden  thought, this was a subject which ought not to be brought forward by a private individual. He thought that the Government were bound to show to the House some grounds for proceeding with this Bill. There was already a charity commission existing in Ireland, and they had heard nothing to show that that commission was not sufficient to do all that was requisite in this respect. The present Bill contained a machinery which would confer new and very extensive powers. Was it intended to establish a new charity commission in Ireland? He was willing to place confidence in her Majesty's Government to this extent, that if they, upon their responsibility, asserted that there ought to be a new commission, he would allow the Bill to be read a second time, reserving to himself the right to examine the provisions when the Bill was in Committee.
 Sir E. Sugden felt bound to oppose the second reading of the Bill. In the recital of the Bill was contained a complete misstatement of the provisions and operation of the 6th and 7th of the late King which had passed both Houses of Parliament
 1123
 Sir E. Sugden  intended to vote for the second reading, but if the Bill did not receive many alterations would certainly oppose it in Committee. The first part prohibited the employment of any, or hire of any
 1119
 Mr. Shaw  objected to having a subject of so important a nature hurried forward in so precipitate a manner. He trusted that a sufficient time would be given for the consideration of the present measure, which affected important interests in Ireland. He hoped that the noble Lord would not concur in hurrying on the second reading of this Bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  was not disposed to obstruct the second reading of the Bill. At the same time, considering the nature of its provisions, he thought it might hereafter have to encounter considerable opposition.
 Mr. Plumptre , in moving the second reading of the Lord's Day Observance Bill, said it was one upon which a strong and growing feeling existed in the country. It was a subject beset with difficulties, to which he could not consider himself fully equal, but he felt bound to say, that he would not be diverted by any taunts or sneers from pursuing the course on this subject which he should think right. The subject of this Bill had been before a Select Committee in 1832, to the evidence given to which he would refer hon. Members. The evidence of Mr. Chambers, the magistrate of Union-Hall, of this metropolis, was most important. He said, that much of the crime committed in the district in which he acted as magistrate arose from the non-observance of the Lord's Day. The chief violators of the Sabbath were the bakers and the keepers of alehouses and beer-shops. Since 1832, up to the present time, the observance of Sundays, he was sorry to say, was not much better. He held a report of a society established in the metropolis for the better observance of the Lord's Day, and in it he found, that in one of the principal streets visited on a Sunday 219 shops were found shut and fifty open; in the next, thirty-four were shut and nineteen open; in another, thirty-two were shut and fifty-six open;
 1117
 Mr. Milnes  was anxious to express his opinion in opposing the motion of the hon. Gentleman, lest his reason for doing so might be misinterpreted. He was aware that public opinion was greatly excited on the question, and public opinion was, in his opinion, doing more than anything the hon. Gentleman could effect in the way
 1118
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in voting for the second reading, and thus supporting the principle of the Bill, he did not feel bound to affirm the mode in which the principle was to be worked out. A Committee had been appointed by a former Government to inquire into the subject, and of which Committee the noble Lord, the Member for South Lancashire (Lord Francis Egerton), was chairman, and that Committee appeared to entertain the opinion, that the present charity com-
 1122 ex officio
 Mr. Wakley  observed, that a Committee would be required for the express purpose of investigating the merits of the various enclosure Bills so constantly brought before the House. Proposals were constantly brought before the House, which, if acceded to, would close up every common in England. He was convinced that this was one of that class, and should, therefore, move its postponement until the appointment of some such Committee.
 Sir R. Inglis  thought, when the hon. Member (Mr. Milnes) rose, that he was about to second the Bill, instead of opposing it. The question had been so frequently under discussion, and he had so often expressed his opinion upon it, that he thought it unnecessary to delay the House, particularly, as he saw by hon. Members, that they were more anxious to divide than to debate upon it. But he was ready at any time to enter into the full discussion of the subject, and into a defence of the general proposition. He would give his support to the Bill of his hon. Friend, not binding himself to any single clause, but concurring in the general principle on which it was based.
 Sir S. Canning,   in giving his support to the Bill, felt called on to observe, that he would not do so if he thought it would weigh heavier upon the poorer than the other classes.
 Sir C. Style  most cordially supported the second reading. He did not do so from any idea that they would make men more religious, or instil into their minds a greater love of Christianity by any human legislation, but because he wished to preserve from positive loss those who did venerate the Sabbath, and abstained from worldly affairs on that day, and because he desired to take from any persons the power of compelling others to work for them. He thought the Bill of the hon. Member went that far and no farther; and therefore he gave him his best support.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that, having concurred in the first reading of the Bill, he was not disposed to throw any obstruction in the way of the second reading. However, he did not by any means feel pledged to the details of the Bill, and would be happy to concur in any useful alterations that might be suggested in Committee. Were it not that the Government had so many important propositions in their hands, this was a subject which might, perhaps, have been more properly brought forward by a member of the Government.
 Mr. Colguhoun  contended, that the advantages of the system of sheriffs depute and substitute was, that it made law cheap, and gave them also the benefit of men of experience and ability in their profession, who resided constantly at Edinburgh. It was an evidence how differently the people of Scotland viewed this system from that view taken by the hon. Member, that there was no expression of feeling from Scot-
 1132
 Mr. Wallace  rose for the purpose of moving the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the nature and extent of the duties performed by the thirty Stipendiary Sheriffs of Scotland who were paid out of the Exchequer; also into the nature and
 1128 l., l., l. l. l. 1129 l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1130
 Mr. Wallace , in reply to the noble Lord, could give his positive assurance that these Courts were detested all over Scotland—and none but the lawyers in that House would stand up in their defence. Both the Lord Advocate and Attorney-General might be very well supposed to have a bias in favour of the system as moving amongst the class benefitted by it, who were, one and all, constituents of the right hon. Gentleman. But he cared nothing for that; he would make an offer, and that was to repair to any country town in Scotland and ascertain public opinion as to the system. He would certainly divide the House on this motion.
 Mr. Vernon Smith  rose to offer some observations in reply to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and declared that there was nothing in the minutes which threw any imputation on the courts of judicature, except on the score of the enormous expense incurred in supporting them. If it depended on the Government to reduce that expense, no doubt effectual measures would long since have been taken to secure the desired object; but it arose in a great measure from the extent of the fees given to council, which were much heavier than those given any where else. No such thing as public opinion had been expressed against the law. There was, it was true, the public opinion of the residents of Calcutta, but that was not a criterion on which any reliance could be placed, and there was no indication whatever that the natives of the country entertained opinions opposed to the law. All the blame or praise which was to be derived from the introduction of the measure had been thrown upon Mr. Macaulay, and he was confident that that gentleman would not shrink from bearing the effect of any dissatisfaction which might be exhibited. He, however, thought that great praise was due to him, for his was the first attempt which had been made to put the settlers on the same footing with the natives of the country. It had been suggested that such an arrangement was a species of degradation to the English, but he did not see the force of that observation, and he would beg to inquire whether English settlers should be introduced into the country without their being compelled to submit to its laws as already established? Hon. Gentlemen need have no fear that the Europeans would not receive due protection in India; the greater fear was that the natives would receive too little. He was of opinion that what was commonly called the Black Act was of considerable benefit; and with respect to the expression of public opinion, he agreed with Mr. Macaulay that one of the most difficult tasks of a statesman was to withstand the clamours of those immediately around him, and to look to the interests of the millions whose voices he might never hear, and whose faces he, might never know, and it was with this difficulty that Mr. Macaulay grappled, For the first few
 1165
 Mr. Elliot  said, that Mr. Macaulay had been blamed for the expressions which he had used respecting the Supreme Court, but he (Mr. Elliot) recollected that the same expressions were used many years since by his lamented friend Sir Ralph Palmer, the chief justice of Madras, who had told him that "the natives had been ruined by the Supreme Court, and that the reason why there was no more business in the courts was, that there were no more rich people to be ruined;" and he did not think that Mr. Macaulay could be blamed for now using similar language. With respect also to the judges of the Zillah Court, they were not chosen from young men; they were taken from persons who had been some years in India; neither did he think that their removal from one court to another was any evil, because the knowledge which they acquired in one place would be of advantage in another; nor was it, in his opinion, improper that Europeans should be subject to these courts, when it was known that the East India Company was very frequently sued in the Zillah Courts.
 Lord J. Russell  would vote against the proposition, for the simple reason that it appeared to him that these Courts gave complete satisfaction. They had decided many cases of considerable importance, and there had been very few appeals from their decisions to the superior Courts. Besides, it did not appear to him that the people of Scotland were dissatisfied, or considered the present system as dilatory, expensive, or uncertain. The fact of their being old did not justify the retention of these Courts, neither was their being old, in his opinion, a sufficient reason for their abolition. After the opinions which had been given by his right hon. and learned Friends the Lord Advocate and the Attorney-General it was not necessary that he should state his reasons at any great length. The present system might, perhaps, be changed without injury: but the fact that the present was one that administered justice to the public satisfaction, and one from which no appeal was made, was sufficient to determine his vote.
 Mr. Pringle  said, that through the means of these courts, they had not only cheap justice administered to the people, but it was administered in a most satisfactory manner. The present system gave the utmost satisfaction to the people of Scotland, owing to the excellent manner in which the onerous and important duties of these offices were discharged. The present motion was totally uncalled for, and he felt bound to oppose it.
 Mr. P. Thomson  was understood to say, that the cause of delay was the difficulty of bringing the Gentlemen together. With respect to the second question, he was unable to give a satisfactory answer, being unacquainted with the details of the measure.
 Mr. Warburton  would support the motion, though he could not concur in all the objections stated by the hon. Member for Greenock. If this court of sheriff-depute were a court of appeal, he thought the course taken was quite right; but it certainly was an anomaly for an appellate court to correspond with the court whose appeals it might have to try. What he would recommend his hon. Friend was, in case his motion should be lost, to introduce some measure that would have the effect of establishing an uniformity of decision in these different courts.
 The Lord Advocate  understood, that the inquiry proposed by his hon. Friend rested on two grounds—one economy, the other, the better administration of justice; and he also said that inquiry was necessary. His answer was, that inquiry had been already made by a commission, which had reported to the House, in which report there was full and ample information. It was said, that the sheriffs did not perform their duties. He (the Lord Advocate) contended that they had uniformly performed their duties efficiently. With regard to the question of economy, he apprehended that, if local judges were to be appointed, the expense would be great indeed. Suppose a Gentleman to give up his situation to accept the office, he would require a large salary to compensate him for loss, and to keep substitutes. He could see no advantage from an inquiry by a Committee. It would be impossible at this period of the session, to go through half the inquiry which was proposed by this motion. If the object of the hon. Member for Greenock was to have the present judicial system in Scotland altered, he ought at once to come forward with a motion on the subject, and let the matter be decided at once. He thought, however, that there were no sufficient grounds to justify any alteration in the present system, which had existed long, and had given the greatest satisfaction to the people of Scotland. It had been stated, that those sheriff's did nothing, and that their office was a sinecure. This he denied altogether. On the contrary, they discharged the duties imposed on them in a most satisfactory manner. He therefore felt bound to oppose the motion, and felt confident that the House would not concur in affirming the proposition brought forward by his hon. Friend.
 Mr. Hume  said, his hon. Friend's complaint was, not that the Sheriffs did not do their duty, but that they had no duty to perform—that it was all done by deputy. His hon. Friend wished for a Committee, where he would prove that the business would be much better done by one Chief Judge going circuits, with assistance if he wanted it. Was it possible that they should be paying thirty judges, who did nothing but attend to their practice in Edinburgh? In Ireland, the assistant
 1131 l.
 Mr. Ingham  contended, that the sheriff substitutes performed their duties in a
 1133
 Mr. R. Steuart  was anxious to say a few words on this subject, as he had been prevented taking part in the debate on the Sheriffs Court Bill, having been in the Chair of the House on that occasion. He wished to state the grounds on which he had the misfortune to differ from his hon. and learned Friends, as well as the reason why he could not vote for the Committee moved for by the Member for Greenock. The Attorney-General had truly stated, that they were in possession of all the information necessary, and that no good would result from an inquiry before a Committee. He thought so, too, and should therefore vote against the motion of his hon. Friend; but having that information, he arrived at a very different conclusion from his learned Friends. He had before expressed his opinion, that the present system of non-resident sheriffs was bad, and he again most strongly declared his disapprobation of it. The only argument in its favour was, that if resident always in the counties, the Sheriffs would lose their knowledge of law. Now, if this was good against them,  à fortiori,
 Mr. Gillon  said, that as the Commission was now sitting to inquire into the condition of the Hand-loom Weavers, he would withdraw the motion of which he had given notice with respect to that subject; but before doing so, there were some points on which he wished an explanation from the right
 1127
 Sir Charles Grey  hoped, that the circumstance of his having presided for several years over a Supreme Court, as well as of his having been appealed to by the right hon. Baronet who had just sat
 1155 1156 1157 1158 l. 1159
 Mr. Ward , in reply, said, that the right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Control, had spoken rather contemptuously of the complaints which had been urged upon him, and had said that Mr. Turton had come over laden with grievances. Now, he thought that there was a time when the right hon. Gentleman considered these matters in a different point of view, and that at the early part of his political career a grievance in West-
 1166
 Mr. G. W. Ward  said, he was too well aware of the disinclination of the House to enter upon questions connected with our Indian policy, to be surprised at its present appearance. [There were about sixty or seventy Members in the House.] He did not pretend to think this policy unnatural. Information upon such subjects was so scanty, and the pressure of other matters upon their time and exertions was so imperative and unremitting, that he did not feel surprised that gentlemen could not afford leisure or inclination to qualify themselves to give an opinion upon matters relating to a distant possession of the Crown, and which required much pains and study to master. If, however, any case ever chanced to be made an exception to this rule, he thought he was fully justified in saying it was the case he had to submit to the House that evening. The matter at issue, lay in a comparatively small compass, and might be easily mastered. It was, however, a subject which had excited the most intense interest throughout the whole British-born population of India. This feeling had been manifested in the petitions which had been presented to the House, and in the applications which had been made to the court of directors of the East-India Company,
 1135 1136 "That an act has lately been passed by the Legislative Council of India, promulgated as law, entitled Act No. XI. of 1836, purporting to repeal the 107th section of the 53rd Geo. 3rd, c. 155. That the object of this new Indian law is to render all the British-born subjects of the Crown throughout these territories amenable to the jurisdiction of the provincial courts (many of which are presided over by Mahomedan and Hindoo judges, the number of such judges in the presidencies of Bengal and Agra not being less than ninety-six, and to take away the appeal to his Majesty's supreme court, from which an appeal lies to his Majesty in his Privy Council in all cases in which the amount in dispute exceeds 4,000 rupees." 1137 l. 1138 " And whereas his Majesty's British subjects resident in the British territories in India, without the towns of Calcutta, Madras, and the town and island of Bombay, are now, by law, subject only to the jurisdiction of his Majesty's courts at Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay respectively, and are exempted from the jurisdiction of the courts established by the said United Company within the said territories, to which all other persons, whether natives or others, inhabitants in the said territories without the limits of the towns aforesaid, are amenable: And, whereas, it is expedient to provide more effectual redress for the native inhabitants of the said territories, as well in the case of assault, forcible entry, or other injury accompanied with force, which may be committed by British subjects at a distance from the places where his Majesty's courts are established, as in case of civil controversies with such British subjects: Be it therefore enacted, that it shall and may be lawful that justices of peace in provinces, shall have jurisdiction in case of assault and trespass committed by British subjects on natives of India. And be it further enacted, that in all cases of debt, not exceeding the sum of fifty rupees, alleged to be due from any British subjects, to any native of India, resident in the East Indies, or parts aforesaid, and without the jurisdiction of the several courts of request, established at Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay respectively, it shall and may be lawful for the Magistrate of the zillah or dictrict, where such British subject shall be resident, or in which such debt shall have been contracted, to take cognizance of all such debts, and to examine witnesses upon oath, and in a summary way to decide between the parties, which decision shall be final and conclusive, to all intents and purposes. And be it further enacted, that all British subjects of his Majesty, as well the servants of the said United Company as others, who shall reside, or shall carry on trade or other business, or shall be in the occupation or
 1139 Hobhouse: 1140 "That the proposed rescission of the 107th section of the statute of 53 Geo. 3rd, c. 155, being made without any restriction or qualification whatever, it will necessarily follow that suits or actions or criminal trials wherein British-born subjects are plaintiffs and defendants will be tried by laws to which they are total strangers; that the whole proceedings will be in a language to them unknown, and but partially known to their judges themselves, entailing, from the construction of the country courts, the certain occurrence of enormous bribery, and the most corrupt proceedings, and exhibiting the unprecedented anomaly of an English judge trying a suit in British territory, between English subjects, in a language unintelligible to the suitors, and but imperfectly understood by the judge, and such trial to be decided according to laws to which Englishmen are strangers, with appeal only to a higher court of the same character." 1141 "You will, therefore, perceive, that the question is not between one law and another, but merely between one tribunal and another; not between the law of England and the law of the mofussil, but between the Sudder Dewany Adawlut and the Supreme Court, bound to act exactly as if it were the Sudder Dewany Adawlut. The rescinding the 107th clause of the Charter Act of 1813 will make no change in the rights of British subjects. Its effect will be merely this, that what has hitherto been done by the Supreme Court will be done by the Court of Sudder Dewany Adawlut. The substantive law remains the same. The law of procedure remains the same. The individual judges only will be different. The law, according to which the Sudder Dewany Adawlut will decide appeals from the mofussil, will, as has already been said, be exactly the same law according to which the Supreme Court is now bound to decide them. In a great majority of cases the judges of the Sudder Dewany Adawlut will, probably, be better acquainted with that law than the judges of the Supreme Court can possibly be. Points may, doubtless, arise which cannot be properly decided without a knowledge of the English law; but it does not appear to his Lordship in Council that it will be more difficult for a judge of the Sudder Dewany Adawlut on such an occasion to learn what the English law is, than it is for a judge of the Supreme Court to obtain information touching the Hindoo or Mahomedan law. As respects the mode of procedure, the Sudder Dewany Adawlut has a clear advantage over the Supreme Court. The Charter Act of 1813 directs the Supreme Court to conform, on appeals from the mofussil, to the practice of the Sudder. With that practice the judges of the Sudder must necessarily be quite familiar; the judges of the Supreme Court have to learn it." "That they (the memorialists) have perused the draft of an Act published for general information, enacting that no persons whatever shall, in any civil proceedings whatever, be henceforth excepted from the, jurisdiction of any courts of the East-India Company's Government (except moonsiffs' courts); and have also perused the letter of Government in an-
 1142 "I am directed by the right hon. the Governor-General of India in council to acknowledge the receipt of your memorial, dated the 15th ultimo, and to inform you that the Act respecting which you inquire makes no alteration whatever in any part of the substantive law. The Company's courts are directed by the regulations to decide according to equity and good conscience only in cases in which no other rules exist. The proposed Act repeals no existing rules. To whatever extent, there-fore, the English law of inheritance, marriage, and succession, is now in force with respect to British subjects residing in the Mofussil, to the same extent it will continue to be in force after the passing of the proposed Act." 1143 "That your Memorialists, without presuming to question the general authority of the Legislative Council of India to make laws for the good government of the Indian territories, yet venture to suggest that, as that authority is conveyed by Act of the British Legislature, it must be exercised strictly subordinate thereto and conformably therewith, and consequently that the Legislative Council of India does not possess the power, under the present Act of 3 and 4 of William 4th, c. 85, of abolishing any courts of justice established by his Majesty's charter, without the previous sanction of the honourable Court of Directors for the Affairs of India, nor of abolishing a court of justice established by Act of Parliament, even with that sanction; that the 46th clause of the 3rd and 4th William 4th, c. 85, which gives implied authority to abolish courts of justice, with the sanction abovementioned, expressly limiting such power of abolition to courts of justice established by his Majesty's charter. But the courts of appeal, in cases of British-born subjects, from the courts of justice established in the interior of India, are courts of justice established by Act of Parliament." 1144 "The admission of British subjects into India makes it necessary for us to create a strong Government, but still it will be a Government of law, and of law containing as much of English principle as possible. But hon. Gentlemen should remember, that if the Government in India should make any arbitrary changes it will be controlled by the authorities at home, and also by Parliament; and take what precautions you will, your real security is in the justice of the Government, controlled by the authorities at home, and in the omnipotence of Parliament, which—whatever they are now—will, I doubt not, be perfectly efficient under the new system." 1145
 Sir J. R. Carnac , was opposed to the motion on many grounds, amongst which was this—that, as a general rule, every British colony enjoyed its own laws; that the French law prevailed in Lower Canada; that the French and Spanish laws were in full force in all colonies which had ever been governed by French or Spanish authorities; and why, he would ask, should that administrative system be unfit for strangers who came of their own accord to live in those colonies which was not unfit for the natives, and under which they had lived for so many years—nay, for so many centuries? He would ask, also, why should India suffer penalties or inconveniences to which no other British possession was exposed? Why should there be one rule for all our other colonies, and a different rule for India? It had been said, that the education received by the civil servants of the East India Company did not qualify them for the discharge of administrative functions. He would contend, that it was not so. They might not, it was true, be so thoroughly disciplined in habits of legal subtelty as to qualify them for the judicial office in such a country as England; but the question was, did they or did they not possess sufficient knowledge to discharge in this country the duties of a police magistrate, or a justice
 1163
 Mr. Hogg  said, that the right hon.
 1160 1161 1162
 The Attorney-General  felt bound to declare, that the system of sheriffs depute and sheriffs substitute was a system which he had always admired, and the more so as he compared them with the system in other countries. Lord Bacon, in the time of Elizabeth, complained that England was the country at that time the worst off with respect to local courts and local judges. He thought the system in Scotland an admirable system. The advantage of the sheriff substitute was, that law was thus brought home to the door of the poor man, and if anybody was dissatisfied, there was an appeal to the sheriff depute. Now he thought it a great advantage to have an intermediate court of appeal between the court of the sheriff substitute and the court of session. He maintained the opinion, that the sheriff depute was enabled to discharge his duty much better, by attending to the practice of his profession during a part of the year in the Parliament House in Edinburgh, than if he were to reside continually in a remote and distant county. He thought the present sheriffs discharged their duty in a most exemplary manner, and that no good would arise from making any change in the existing system.
 Sir J. C. Hobhouse  said, that he had certainly no right to complain of the tone and manner in which his hon. Friend had introduced this very important subject to the notice of the House; and though he agreed with him that they had not a very flourishing audience to listen to the debate, yet if Gentlemen present would afford him an equal share of attention to that which they had given to his hon. Friend, he thought that he should be able to convince them that there was no ground for agreeing to the motion which had just been put from the Chair. Before he proceeded to discuss the merits of the question, however, he must certainly be permitted to observe, that if his hon. Friend had put a substantive motion upon the notices of the day, comprising the course which he intended to call upon the House to adopt, instead of a general notice "to call the attention of the House to the petition from Madras and Calcutta" on this subject, he would have better consulted the convenience of the House, and the highly important claims of the subject matter itself. He (Sir J. C. Hobhouse) had certainly been told to-night, in private, by his hon. Friend, that he intended to move for a Committee, and he had also been prepared for a similar application by his friend Mr. Turton, who had come over from India expressly as the leader of this heavy grievance. He must say, that the hon. Member for Sheffield, as in duty bound to his clients, had somewhat exaggerated this grievance when he spoke of the universal complaints which prevailed throughout India on the subject of this Act, which, as he alleged, affected not only the rights of all the British-born subjects of India, but of the Mahomedans themselves, and of the absolute necessity which existed for the power of the British Parliament to interpose its authority to repeal this most tyrannous Act of Lord Auckland and council. But the fact was, and this was the most melancholy part of the whole case, there was no grievance at all; for he had recently received a letter from India stating, that the "Black Act" as this Act was also denominated, was never beard of; that it was quite forgotten and
 1146 1147 "Let it not be supposed (said that right hon. Gentleman) that I am arguing, that now, when Englishmen are to be allowed to go all over India, they shall be accompanied by the protection of English law wherever they proceed; I wish the privilege to be continued only in the three presidencies, where a great number of Europeans are congregated together." "If the protection of British law could at once be extended to the natives of India, I would be disposed to take the same view of the question as the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; but, when it is allowed, on all hands, that this is impossible, I think it wise to get rid of a distinction which establishes two classes in the community, as was the case under the feudal system." "Unless the hon. and learned Gentleman who moved the amendment can show that the jurisdiction he wishes to preserve will not extend infinitely beyond the local limits of the three presidencies, I shall vote with his Majesty's Ministers. The exercise of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court has more than once exposed our power in India to great hazard, and I cannot consent to continue that cause of danger. There will be this great advantage, also, in having the same laws for Europeans as for natives, that it will give us an additional security for their, goodness; because, if European subjects feel themselves
 1148 "The principle which I laid down when I introduced this measure to the House was this, that, ultimately, there should be no distinction between Englishmen and the native subjects. Is it to be supposed that, in the presidencies, the Governor-General in Council will at once enter upon the monstrous course of legislation which the hon. and learned Member has suggested? I am willing to proceed by degrees to the attainment of my ultimate object; but I will not yield the great principle, that English subjects shall be amenable to the same tribunals as natives. When hon. Members talk of the sacred rights of Englishmen in India. I ask where they exist? Do they forget that the Indian Government at present possesses the power of deportation? I know of no chartered rights which give Englishmen in India the privilege
 1149 "That persons going to India ought to conform to the Government established there; and that the laws which are considered good enough for the natives ought also to be good enough for them. He hoped that the Committee would not consent to the continuance of a favoured class in India, which must necessarily excite the jealousy of the natives." locus experientiŖ "That the great extension of the British territories since the charter of 1774, has given to the court a range of jurisdiction which at places remote from Calcutta can only be considered a mockery of justice, if it be not the means of fraud and oppression. Serious inconveniences must be experienced unless the persons allowed to settle in the interior are made subject, with the rest of the inhabitants, to the authority of the local courts. To leave the European owner or occupier of lands, or the manufacturer, at great distances, subject to the Supreme Court, or subject only to the Mofussil courts, with the limited powers which they at present possess, would tend to such a system of fraud and injustice, and leave the natives so entirely at the mercy of the settlers that I think it would be an insuperable obstacle to the allowing Europeans to settle in the interior, &c. On every consideration it would seem desirable to place all classes of his Majesty's subjects in his Indian territories as far as possible under the same laws, amenable to the
 1150 1151 ex necessitate rei, 1152 l. l. 1153 1154
 Sir J. Hobhouse  entirely agreed with the noble Lord in what he had said with respect to the present state of the law in India. He could only say that this subject had for a long time occupied the attention of Government, and he was happy to state that the criminal code was now finished, and that the Commissioners were now actively employed in preparing the civil code.
 Mr. W. W. Wynn  presented a petition from a considerable number of the most respectable inhabitants, both European and native, of Madras and Bombay, praying that the power of deciding upon local improvements and other details of Government might be restored to the governors and councils of those presidencies.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, he could have wished this matter to have been previously brought before the Privy Council. He quite agreed with the last hon. speaker that the interests of the natives were of primary importance. When an Englishman went out, he did so, subjecting himself to the local courts, and to the general rules which were established. With regard to the motion before the House, looking at the small number of Members present, he should advise the hon. Gentleman who had brought it forward not to press it, but to accede to the amendment, for it was highly important that the fullest investigation should take place. He trusted that all the papers which had been moved for would be granted, and that the late chief justice of Calcutta would re-produce the minutes on the subject. He must express the deepest regret at the course which had been taken by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, but, at the same time, he was quite sure that he would not oppose the motion captiously. He was ready to admit, however, that the minutes ought not to be produced unless the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to introduce a bill immediately to improve the state of the Supreme Court. With respect to the minutes themselves, he must express his surprise that any man employed as an officer of the Government should use language of a nature so rhetorical as that contained in them, without having first considered the effect which might be produced by it; and he must say that it was really of a description such as he did not expect to see introduced into a public
 1164
 Viscount Sandon  remarked, this debate had elicited one important fact, and that was, the great uncertainty of the state of the law in India. He hoped that the points which were in dispute would be ascertained and settled with as much expedition as possible.
 Mr. O'Connell  never knew anything connected with law to be in a small compass. He thought the appointment of such a Committee would only be the means of continuing the present abuses by turning them into a different shape.
 Mr. O'Connell , in that case, should only say, the plan would be altogether inoperative.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the law was quite clear upon the subject. Now Dean Dawson had 1,100 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, if an impost arising out of the land was burdened with rate, a charge on houses ought to be liable to it also.
 Sir C. Styles  would support the clause. The office of the paid guardians was not intended to be permanent, and the ratepayers could get rid of those officers if they were found to be inattentive to their duties.
 Mr. Francis Baring  observed, that the speech of the hon. Member was more applicable for a motion, of which the hon. Gentleman had given notice, for a repeal on the duty on glass, than for the second reading of a bill the object of which was to consolidate the laws on the subject of the glass duties. He admitted that, if they kept up the duty, it was advisable to take care that the regulations that were imposed to prevent frauds on the revenue in the collection of the duty should be made as little as possible vexatious to the trader, and this was one of the objects of the bill before the House. The Treasury had already, on their own authority, car-
 1206 1207 pro forma
 Colonel Conolly  thought it possible, that circumstances might arise which would render the appointment of paid guardians necessary. He could not understand why the hon. Member for Limerick should take offence at Government providing against a fatality which was, at all events, of possible occurrence. In the west of Ireland, he very much feared that such a provision would be found necessary, and he could not bring himself to believe, that the Commissioners would have recourse, unnecessarily, to the powers with which the clause invested them. On the whole, as he could not see, that the honour of the country was at all involved in the decision to which the Committee may come, he should support the clause as it stood.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the line of argument pursued in opposition to this clause was as if the Commissioners would be anxious to make it impossible for the guardians to execute their duties, in order that paid officers of their own nomination might be appointed. Now he could not presume anything of the kind. The effect of the clause, as it stood, was, that where the guardians did not duly and effectively discharge the duties assigned to them by the Act, in such cases the Commissioners should appoint paid officers. This power, therefore, was a remedy only in cases of default on the part of the guardians, and where the Bill could not operate. It was, moreover, a remedy, the effect of which would be to induce the guardians to execute their duties properly. But what would be the effect of the amendment proposed by the noble Lord? Why, that in cases where the guardians did not perform their duties, they were to be induced to do so by the offer of a salary. Now, he was very much afraid that such an offer would be a motive to the guardians not to execute their duties gratuitously, but to neglect them, in order that they might obtain a salary. He thought, that the clause, as it stood, was preferable to the noble Lord's amendment.
 Lord John Russell  said, that so far from the question being decided the other night, the clause was allowed to stand over for consideration. His learned Friend, the Solicitor-General, had since looked into the acts, and had found the act creating ministers' money in Ireland to be very like that creating the stipend in lieu of tithe in London, and therefore he saw no necessity for exempting ministers' money from the payment of poor-rates.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was intended that there should be one Commissioner permanently resident at Dublin, and that there should be an office at Dublin for the carrying on of the business of the Poor-law Commissioners. It might happen that in case of illness among the Poor-law
 1181
 Lord John Russell  had no objection to introduce the words.
 Lord John Russell  said, he should certainly take the matter into his serious consideration. He had no objection in principle to the proposition of the right hon.
 1179
 Lord John Russell  could not undertake to answer all the right hon. Gentleman's questions, for he thought that with respect to the rule of appointment and promotion in the Irish constabulary force his noble Friend, the Secretary for Ireland, could give a much clearer account of the matter than he could. In reference to Colonel Kennedy he had to inform the right hon. Baronet, and it was with great regret, that Colonel Kennedy had tendered his resignation, and that it had been accepted. As to the grounds on which the resignation had been tendered, he did not think he could state them without sowing the seeds of future discussion on the subject, which, in a case of this kind, he did not think desirable. With respect to the course to be pursued in naming a new inspector-general, and conducting the future management of the constabularly force in Ireland, he had only to say, that having the highest reliance on the integrity, the great good sense, and honour of Colonel Kennedy, it was the intention of the Lord-Lieutenant and himself (the parties more immediately concerned) to take the opinion of that officer in reference to the future general management of the force, before his successor was appointed, in order to ascertain what improvement could be made in that department. As to another point suggested by the right hon. Baronet he could only say that he did not not think it would be possible to introduce an exact similarity between the rules for managing the constabulary in Ireland and, those for managing the metropolitan police force. No one knew better than the right hon. Gentleman that the metropolitan police
 1177
 Lord John Russell  had no hesitation in saying, that the same principle would govern the appointment of the inspector-general who should succeed Colonel Shaw Kennedy.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that it was always very easy to select a particular clause, or a case which very seldom occurred, as the ground for condemning a whole bill. This was the course taken by the hon. Member for Limerick in the present instance, as he took this particular clause, attacked it for the powers which it proposed to confer, and said that this was the principle of the bill. He totally denied that the principle of the bill was such as the hon. Gentleman had represented. When the absence of self-government and local government was alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, he would remind him that the guardians under this act were to be elected by the different districts, and were to supply the poor with relief. Did the hon. Gentleman mean to say, that such a provision was opposed to local government? He was aware that this clause was not in the English bill; but he recollected that when that measure was under discussion it was argued that the most despotic powers were given to the Commissioners. And there were certainly some provisions introduced which would seem to justify that description. For instance, in the case of the guardians neglecting to act, it was made competent for those magistrates who were  ex officio 1193
 Lord John Russell  would adopt the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw), charging, however, the tithe-owner, according to the principle of the bill, with the whole poor-rate, by way of deduction. He admitted it was more simple to charge the occupier in the first instance, and then the tithe-owner would not be taxed till he was paid. He (Lord J. Russell) therefore, would withdraw the clauses for the present, and amend them according to the plan of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Shaw).
 Lord J. Russell  said, he should oppose the second reading of the clause, as it would render the bill entirely nugatory—it would be leaving it to the option of the people of Ireland whether they would accept the bill or not.
 Lord John Russell  said, that in preceding clauses of the bill the persons appointed by the Commissioners were styled paid officers, and not guardians.
 Mr. Lynch  was sure, that the clause would be very rarely called into action. The people of Ireland, he was satisfied, would do their duty with respect to this Bill, and it was only in default of guardians refusing to act that this power would be given to the Commissioners—a power which there was no doubt the Commissioners would not be likely to abuse.
 Mr. Callaghan  said, he possessed some land on which he paid tithe—he built a house upon it, and the churchwardens forthwith demanded ministers money. He paid both for a while, but he now paid only the ministers' money. There could, therefore, be no doubt that ministers' money was received in lieu of tithe.
 Mr. Baines  said, that before the Bill was passed he had a clause to propose, which he had before brought under the consideration of the House, and which he had now so modified that be hoped it would be found unobjectionable. At this late hour, now after midnight, he should not enter at any length into the reasons for proposing this addition to the Bill, but should content himself with stating generally, that originally the governorship of Queen Anne's bounty was principally lay, but that it had now become entirely clerical—in reality, the Bishops were the only existing governors—and all the other governors were, by the course that was pursued, in effect excluded from the management of the funds. The Bishops alone had notice of the time and place of holding the meetings or Courts of Directors; no other persons, though there were 400 or 500 other governors, were invited to attend, and of course no others did attend: for of upwards of 100 Courts of Governors held during the last ten years, it appeared from a return which he had moved for in this House, and which was now upon the table, that not a single layman had been present at one, and that for the reason he had stated, because they were not informed in any way whatever either of the time or place of holding the meetings, while there was previously to any such court or meeting a circular sent by the treasurer of the bounty fund to all the bishops, but to none other of the governors. He (Mr. Baines) thought it desirable, on many accounts, which were too obvious to require particular explanation, that the mixed character of the governorship should be restored, and as Queen Anne in her original charter had provided that there should at least be two laymen present at every court, a privy councillor and a judge or Queen's counsel,—the effect of the clause which he now offered 4) the House was—first, to insist
 1208 London Gazette,
 Mr. Baines  said, that the right hon. Gentlemen who had urged their objection of the want of consent of the Crown as a bar to his motion, had forgotten one very material consideration, and that was, that if it was an impediment to the introduction of the clause which he (Mr. Baines) proposed for restoring the board to its original constitution, it was an objection to the whole Bill now before the House, every part of which as much required the assent of the Crown as the clause he had the honour to propose; and he begged to ask his hon. Friend, the Member for Nottinghamshire, whether he had the consent of the Crown for the introduction of all the other clauses that related to the altered
 1209
 Mr. Litton  thought, that the imposing of a fine upon persons for not performing a work of charity, would be rather a new mode of legislation. The measure, as it stood, in point of fact, imposed a fine in the most attenuated shape. If the resident guardians appointed by the rate payers
 1187
 Mr. Litton  had not heard any principle suggested from the beginning to the end of these discussions to warrant the rating of ministers money. The principle of the bill was, that nothing should be rated but lands or hereditaments, and therefore tithe was fairly subject to the rate, and the law dealt with it as land in all its qualities. On the other hand, ministers money was granted by statute, in the nature of pecuniary aid, in which the clergyman had no vested right, inasmuch as it was quite optional with the Lord-Lieutenant, in
 1183
 Mr. Lucas  begged to mention a case very nearly similar, which occurred to himself. A quit-rent collector went out of the barony and parish in which he was authorised to collect quit-rent, and distrained a tenant of his for 5 l.
 Mr. Lucas  said, the noble Lord had mistaken the gist of his noble Friend's argument. The noble Lord was not entitled, having avoided retracting what he said on former occasions as to the size of the unions, now to have the benefit of retracta-
 1189 s.; d.,
 Mr. Lucas  suggested, that as the Bill gave the power to divide the country into electoral districts, each district in which a paid officer was appointed ought to support such officer itself.
 Mr. Lucas  then moved a clause, similar to the 26th clause in the English new Poor-law Bill. By that clause all the parishes of the union were liable to the charges for the maintenance of the workhouse, the pay of the staff, and the general expense of the union; but each of the parishes composing that union still con-
 1198
 Mr. Lucas  withdrew his amendment, and the Committee divided on the original motion: Ayes 35; Noes 33: Majority 2.
 Mr. Lucas  said, he would now move an amendment, that in cases where an unpaid guardian could not be found to act in a district, the paid guardian appointed by the Commissioners should be paid out of the funds of the electoral district, and not out of the funds of the whole union.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, he had drawn the clearest distinction that words could express between a rent charge and a perpetual rent charge, which placed its owner in the position of a landlord.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, rent charges were exempt from rate; the present charge arose in the same manner, and ought to be exempted also. He insisted that there were no words in the Acts of Parliament bearing on the point which gave ministers money as tithes, or in lieu of tithes. It was not because the rate would be payable by the clergy that he wished them to be exempted from it, but because this kind of rent charge was not rateable in the hands of laymen, and therefore could not, on any principle of justice, be rateable when received by the ministers of religion.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, he understood a clause was to be introduced, making it necessary that one Commisioner should reside in Dublin. As the clause stood, it merely made it permissive in place of peremptory. The people of Ireland were decidedly of opinion, that there should be one Commissioner at the least resident in Dublin. Perhaps, therefore, the noble Lord would have no objection to introduce words to this effect:—"That there shall be an office in Dublin where one of the Commissioners shall be generally resident."
 Sir E. Sugden  said, he thought it quite clear that on principle this money should not be rated to the poor. If this money were the same as tithe, then it must be rateable, but, according to the Irish acts, it was impossible that it could be viewed in that light. He would suggest to the noble Lord, that he should propose a substantive clause relating to this matter, in order that the opinion of the House might be regularly taken on it, and the point set at rest.
 Sir E Sugden  could not help thinking the difficulty apprehended by the noble Lord might easily be got over, as the case lay in a very small compass, and the opinion of the legal Gentlemen might, therefore, easily be had.
 Mr. French  said, when this Bill was introduced, the Chancellor of the Exchequer declared that any attempt to get rid of these duties would be absurd. He, on the contrary, believed their doom was sealed, and that if not at present, within a very short period, the right hon. Gentleman must reduce his expenditure, or look out for a substitute for them. As in the reign of William 3d the Treasury was compelled to give up the duties on glass, as being destructive to its manufacture in
 1200 l. 1201 1202 1203 l. s. s. s. s. d. Commercial Dictionary, l. 1204 l. l. s. d. s. 3d. s. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. s. 1205 l. l.
 Mr. Shaw  objected to this clause, and to the new clause which the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had printed with reference to tithe-owners. He thought he had convinced the noble Lord the other night, that it would be much simpler and fairer to estimate the annual value of the lands without deducting the tithe, and to let the occupier pay the rate in the first instance, and then stop the tithe-owner's proportion as in the case of the landlord, where the occupier was liable to the tithe, and to let the occupier stop the half of the entire rate from the landlord, and then the landlord stop the tithe-owner's share from the tithe-owner, where the landlord was liable to the tithe. This could be done by omitting the proviso from the 60th Clause, which would leave the land and the occupier liable for the whole rate, in the first instance—and then, by adding a few words to the 69th and 70th Clauses, which adjusted the proportions of rate, the former as between occupier and landlords—the latter as between the different landlords receiving rent out of the, same land, the proportions between the occupier and tithe-owner, or landlord and tithe-owner, as the case might be, would be as easily settled—while, on the other hand, the plan of the noble Lord would involve much difficulty, intricacy and injustice; first, by deducting the tithe in the valuation under the 60th Clause, and rating it separately, you kept alive the distinction between rent and tithe, which it had been the policy of recent legislation to merge; secondly, by the proposed new clause for the recovery of rate on tithe; the noble Lord, pressed by the difficulty of finding a remedy except through the occupier, proposed, that after two months, if the rate was not paid by the tithe-owner, then the guardians might applot the occupiers as if they had been primarily liable, which was but a roundabout process of arriving at what he proposed in the first instance. And thirdly
 1195
 Mr. Shaw  supported the clause, because he considered it absolutely necessary to the working of the bill. The bill certainly conferred great power on the Commissioners, but the great difficulty had been the doubt as to there being sufficient machinery in Ireland to do without this. In England the case was different; but there the power so given was limited in its duration. Although there were many objections to the principle, yet he considered the clause so necessary in a practical point of view, that he should certainly support it.
 Mr. Shaw  thought his hon. Friend (Mr. Lucas) would find it impossible to define who were the poor of any particular district. They could only be actually found at the workhouse where they applied for relief; and any attempt to discover and charge the district from whence they came, would be adopting the principle the House had already decided against of a law of settlement. In Ireland, above all places, it would be difficult to discover from whence a pauper came; particularly if he knew that his own district was to be charged, he would consider it a point of honour not to tell the truth.
 Mr. Shaw  agreed with his noble Friend (Lord Castlereagh) that it was a very serious question, whether a poor-law should be introduced into Ireland at all. But, if it was once introduced, he thought that excepting any particular district from the operation of the bill, but giving that district the power to tax itself, and then administer relief to the poor, according to such plan as the rate payers of that particular locality might adopt, would be full of danger, and, giving the managers every credit for the best notions, might induce all the abuses and intricacies of the old English system of out-door relief, labour rates, settlement, &c. Now he felt that the measure was a great and painful experiment, but if it was to be tried in Ireland, at all events, let them have the benefit of one uniform and simple plan, with the checks it afforded, the best of which be considered was the exclusion of out-door relief.
 Mr. Shaw  said, that in the discussion of a former part of the Bill, the Government undertook that there should be a Commissioner permanently resident in Dublin, to an office established there for the purpose of receiving applications, and affording information to all who might be concerned in the administration of the Poor-law in Ireland. He admitted, there was an advantage in having the whole system, both in England and Ireland, under the direction of one board—but that would be too dearly purchased if the Commissioners were all resident at Somerset-house, in which case the business of Ireland must necessarily be postponed to the more pressing demands upon their attention from England. The present clauses were only permissive as to one Commissioner acting in Ireland. He, therefore, could not agree to them without an express understanding from the Government that the entire attention and time and presence of one Commissioner, at least, should be devoted to Ireland.
 Mr. Shaw  opposed the insertion of these words. The Government had never intended that ministers' money should be made chargeable to the poor-rate; it would be unjust in principle, as a departure from the bill, which only professed to be a charge upon land, as against the landlord or  quasi
 Mr. Barron  said, the bill would be ineffective without the clause.
 Mr. Goulburn  opposed it on the ground that it was interfering with the power of the Crown, as it had in its original charter reserved to itself the power of making alterations in the constitution of the board. No doubt at the original constitution of the board, certain laymen had been appointed on it, but it was found impossible to make these persons attend; therefore an alteration was made. At any rate, it was impossible that the House could proceed with the present clause unless the consent of the Crown had been previously notified.
 Mr. Goulburn  maintained, that though the clergy paid rates on tithe, it did not follow that they ought to pay rates on the commutation received on their other allowances. Many clergymen were paid by stipend, and it was not sought to charge them with poor-rates. The words of the act referred to were conclusive. "Whereas there was little or no tithe." Now, when
 1184
 Mr. Hume  thought, the best mode of diminishing the expense before election Committees would be properly to define the qualification of voters. Until the register was made final in every part of the country it would be vain to hope for any diminution of the expenses of an election Committee.
 Mr. Hume  thought it was somewhat inconsistent and fastidious to limit the power given to the Commissioners in this clause, after the extensive powers which were conferred upon them in other and antecedent clauses of the Bill. He did not think it likely that the Commissioners would be guilty of an abuse of the powers confided in them, the more particularly as public opinion would operate to prevent them doing so.
 Mr. Archbold  said, that if the power were given to the Commissioners to employ paid guardians, all the other officers would require compensation for their labours; and in that case the expenses would be much heavier than the Irish gentry and farmers could afford. These appointments would be very much to the advantage of the Government. If this power were conferred no officers would act without payment. The bill altogether was most unpopular in Ireland. There was no man who had an acre of land who did not dread its provisions. He received letters every day from those who agreed with him in politics and with those who differed from him. There was one point, however, upon which they all agreed—namely, in opposition to this bill. He did not think it possible it ever could work, and he should therefore oppose it.
 Mr. D. Browne  said, it came to this, that if the bill would not work, it was to be forced upon the people. If so, he would prefer not having the bill at all.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  replied, that if the board of guardians were found inefficient, the Commissioners would have power to
 1190
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  contended, that ministers money was to all intents and purposes a charge upon the land, and therefore ought to be subject to poor-rates.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  thought, the hon. Member was peculiarly ill advised not to proceed against the wrong doer. With respect to the clause under consideration, he should object to giving costs against the Commissioners.
 Mr. Sergeant Woulfe  said, the right hon. Member for Ripon had fallen into a mistake in assimilating this to a rent charge, for it happened, unfortunately for his argument, that rent charges were not exempted from rates by the bill. But this was not a rent charge; it was really and substantially a payment given by Act of Parliament in lieu of tithe, and as a substitute for it. Whether, however, it was considered in the same light as the money paid to the clergymen of London, or as a rent charge, it was impossible that the argument of the right hon. Gentleman could hold good.
 Mr. Lefroy  thought the object his hon. Friend, the Member for Monaghan, had in view was a very desirable one. It was but just, that the electoral district in fault should be visited with the expense.
 Mr. Wyse  was of opinion, that if guardians appointed by the parish refused or neglected to serve, they ought to be fined like grand jurors or other officers appointed to perform public duties. If, however, it turned out in any particular locality that there was not a sufficient number of resident guardians, or if any other state of circumstances arose to call for the interference of the Commissioners, he did not think, that there could be any objection to the power given to the Commissioners to appoint paid officers.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien , in rising to propose the omission of this clause, said, he should be ashamed to present himself before his constituents if he allowed a clause appointing paid guardians to pass without taking the sense of the House upon it. He firmly
 1186
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, he was anxious to call the attention of the House to the clause. He thought it a great hardship that the defendants in all cases were obliged to pay costs when in the wrong, and the Commissioners were exempt from costs when they happened to be in error. He begged to ask whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to alter the clause, so as to make the wrong-doer, whoever he may be, pay the costs.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, he was by no means satisfied with the clause as it stood; nor could he allow it to pass without entering his protest against it. It was absolutely indispensable to working out the measure that there should be a resident board in Dublin, and this was the unanimous opinion of the people of Ireland. It was his intention to move an amendment to the clause, and would leave it to the Committee to negative it if they thought fit. He should move, that three persons be appointed to sit in Dublin to administer the Bill. He should wish to see one of the Commissioners from the English Board; also, an eminent medical man; and the third, a person intimately acquainted with all the localities of Ireland. Such was the kind of board he purposed to substitute for the one resident Commissioner.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  thought her Majesty's Government were peculiarly sparing in their reasons for forcing this clause upon the people of Ireland. He maintained that where the Irish Members expressed a decided opinion upon a clause of the bill it was the duty of the Government to meet their wishes. On an amendment of his the other night, charging jointures, &c., he had twenty five Irish Members to eleven; and on the right hon. Member for the University's amendment there
 1192
 Mr. O'Brien  withdrew the clause.
 Mr. W. Roche  remarked, the clause contained no machinery by which the parishes were to manage themselves for the purpose of carrying it out.
 Sir F. Trench  thought, the Bill was a tissue of fraud, and held out expectations which would never be realised. If the Bill could be worked out at all, the effect of it would be a confiscation of property, without the slightest benefit to the poor. So determined was his opposition to the Bill, that upon the bringing up of the report, he would move, that it be received that day six months.
 The Attorney-General  thought, that there was no evidence to show that ministers money was not assessable. In London it had been ascertained that this species of impost was liable to rates. It was a contribution in respect of each house levied in the towns of Ireland for the support of the clergy, payable by the occupier.
 Sir R. Bateson  observed, that the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) would find in his right hon. Friend (Mr. Shaw) a most able ally in the progress of this Bill, and his right hon. Friend had better go over, perhaps, to the other side. He would support the clause, because it operated against the workhouse system, to which he was diametrically opposed. All that the parishes who were willing to adopt the clause asked was, that all the inhabitants should be compelled to pay their quota of the rate. The people of Ireland had been taken by surprise by this frightful measure, and were against it.
 Sir R. Bateson  had listened with attention to the arguments on both sides, but had heard nothing to induce him to support the clause. He agreed with his noble Friend, the Member for the county Down, that the bill, in its present shape, was most objectionable—the bill, without the clause in question, was sufficiently so, but with it it was quite intolerable. He was opposed to the formation of large unions—the clause could only be necessary for large unions, and for that reason alone he should oppose it; but it was not on that ground solely he rested his objection to the clause—he opposed it on principle, as tending to increase the patronage of the Crown, by the creation of more commissioners, where too many existed already. He thought the clause would be productive of jobbing, and he should therefore oppose it.
 Sir R. Peel  said, it was to prevent adverse decisions on that point that he had suggested inquiry.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that objection did not apply to his proposition. The Committee should have no discretion to report on anything, except the decisions of Committees on litigated points, the evidence bearing on different decisions, and the decisions themselves.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to offer a suggestion to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) on a matter in which he believed the House would be animated by the same sentiments—he alluded to the projected measures for the improvement of the tribunal for the trial of controverted elections. Whatever might be the opinion as to the nature of the tribunal to be constituted for that purpose, the opinion, he believed, would be almost universal—that it would be exceedingly desirable to have a declaratory
 1178
 Sir R. Peel  inquired, whether it were the prevailing practice in the constabulary force that promotion to the upper class took place from the inferior class as the reward of good conduct?
 Sir R. Peel  said, the noble Lord had misunderstood him. He had not asked whether the noble Lord intended to consult Colonel Shaw Kennedy or not, but whether the same principles which influenced the Crown in the choice of that gallant officer would preside over the choice of his successor? On the former appointment the noble Lord said it was a matter which ought not to be used for party purposes; it was a matter, the success of which concerned all equally—one in which all must feel a common interest, and that, therefore, it would be made solely on public grounds, and exclusively with reference to the fitness of the individual. What he wanted to know was, would the same principles govern the next choice?
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to put some questions to the noble Lord respecting the constabulary force in Ireland, and the rumoured resignation of the gallant officer who for some time past had had the chief superintendence and control over that force. As the questions which he had to put were grounded on the discussion which took place in the House at the time when the change in the law respecting the Irish constabulary was made, he begged particularly to refer to that discussion. The House would probably recollect, that in February, 1836, the noble Secretary for Ireland proposed a bill making material alterations in the mode of appointing the constabulary force in Ireland. The proposal was to transfer the selection of constables from the local magistracy to either the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, or to some officer acting under him, and having charge of the force; and, in order that no mistake might be made about the noble Lord's expressions on that occasion, he (Sir R. Peel) begged to quote the very words used by the noble Lord, which were these:—
 "With respect to transferring the appointment of the police force from the local magistracy to the Government, although that appointment would be nominally in the Crown, it would be practically in the hands of the inspector-general. He (Lord Morpeth) contended, that such an officer as the inspector-general would be able to exercise a much more careful and a much more unbiassed choice than could be expected from so numerous a body as the local magistracy. Without imputing any improper motives to that body, without ascribing to them any other political feelings than would be found to exist in any equally numerous body of the same station in society, it was clear that the magistrates would, in most cases, be very desirous to appoint their own friends. Now, as he apprehended, the inspector-general would be influenced by motives much more unbiassed, and
 1174 * "There was another inconvenience arising out of the present system, which it would be the object of the Bill now introduced to remove—namely, that while a great part of the police force was by common consent appointed by the inspectors, another part was appointed by the magistrates, and by this means became subservient to local interests, to party views, and to the motives and feelings of particular individuals. The object, then, of the present Bill was to place in one inspector-general the direction of the whole police force of Ireland, to give him a complete control over it, to empower him to organise it into one system, and thus to make the police in Leinster and in Connaught act under the same rules and directions. This, he thought, it would be admitted, was an object which belonged not to any particular party, or to one party more than another; it was a national object, an object which all who desired to see the efficiency of the police improved by a proper system of organization, and by that means wished to contribute to the maintenance and preservation of peace in Ireland, would be anxious to see accomplished."† * 1175 * * 1176
 The Solicitor-General  said, that he should not like the clause to be opposed on the ground that had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman, the want of the previous consent of the Crown, but he felt that there was an insuperable objection to the very principle of it. The clause proposed to make it necessary that one of the judges, or one of the Queen's counsel, should be present to constitute a board. Now, it was a general subject of complaint, that the judges had already so much to do, and it would be impossible to enforce the attendance of Queen's counsel. Unless they had some persons belonging to this class habitually to attend, the clause would only do harm, and there would be the semblance of security which only existed in name. The attendance of the class proposed by the hon. Gentleman never could be assured without some inducement.
 Sir W. Somerville  said, his noble Friend had not convinced him of the necessity of the clause. He objected to such unlimited and despotic power being conferred on any commissioners. The clause as it stood gave them the power of appointing all over Ireland.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, if it was possible to make the bill more unpopular in Ireland than it was at present, this clause would make it so. The House had just heard what was the opinion of one of the warmest supporters of the Government upon the clause. He certainly never could be brought to vote for the bill after the expression of opinion against it which existed in the part of the country which he represented. Except the bill united the feelings of the Irish people, it would be in vain to suppose that it would work well through the assistance of paid guardians. He thought it desirable to omit the clause altogether.
 Lord Castlereagh  wished to ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney-General for Ireland, if the board of guardians should refuse to act, what number of paid officers could be appointed by the Commissioners?
 Lord Castlereagh  then said, he had a clause to propose between Clauses 48 and 49 He was unwilling to take up the time of the House—but this was a subject on which deep interest was felt, particularly in that part of Ireland which be had the honour to represent. Petitions had been sent up from all parts of Ireland as to this bill, and from the reports on public petitions, it appeared that the number of petitions against the bill was 55; in favour of it 3; while the number of signatures against the bill was 27,259; in favour of it 252, and several petitions of those which he had presented were signed by the churchwardens on behalf of public meetings. He had presented a petition that day from the county of Down, against the bill. It was in deference to the wishes of these petitioners, that he begged now to move a clause empowering the Commissioners to exempt from the operation of the Act such parishes as were willing to take upon themselves the care of their own poor—
 1196
 Lord Castlereagh  did not object so much to the whole clause as to the words, "such and so many paid officers as the Commissioners shall think fit to appoint." These words would give the Commissioners the power of appointing an indefinite and unlimited number. The powers so conferred were much too extensive, and might afford a handle for abuse.
 Lord Clements  said, that the chief object of his amendment was to get an expression of the noble Lord's opinion as to the payment of guardians elected by the people, rather than have the Commissioners appoint paid officers of their own selection. As, however, the words he had used in his amendment might not be suited to the intended object, he would withdraw the amendment altogether.
 Lord Clements  said, that if he really believed the true meaning of the clause to be that suggested by the gallant Member for Donegal, he should not object to it; but as he put a very different construction upon the meaning of the clause, he must oppose it.
 Lord Clements  said, that if difficulties should occur, as no doubt there would be, in getting the guardians, or a sufficient number of them, to attend, the exception of the appointment of paid officers would soon become the rule; and if the power of appointment of paid officers once got into the hands of the Commissioners, it would be almost impossible for the people to get it back again. It was on this ground that he wished to have paid guardians, and he was sure that the bill would never work well without them.
 Lord Clements  had an amendment to propose, which he thought would meet the views of the noble Lord opposite (Castlereagh). He proposed to leave out the words, "such and so many paid officers as the Commissioners shall think fit to appoint," and substitute for them the words, "the Commissioners may make order for the payment of such and so many of the guardians as they shall think fit." The consequence would be, that the persons to be paid by the Commissioners would be the guardians appointed by the ratepayers, and not independent officers of the Commissioners own selection. He thought the House should look with great distrust upon an attempt to place unlimited power in the hands of those who were not immediately responsible for its exercise. If the Commissioners were persons well acquainted with the state of the country, the case
 1188
 Viscount Morpeth  said, it was unfair to tax Government with a wish to create patronage. The hon. Member for Limerick wished to have three Commissioners, whereas the Government were satisfied with one. He said that the necessity of the case justified the clause and the powers
 1191
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the power of the Commissioners had already, he feared, been so cramped by the amendments in the Bill made in Committee, that he doubted whether the proposed clause could, under any circumstances, be carried into operation. The hon. Gentleman had said, that the clause he had moved was exactly similar to a clause in the English Poor-law Amendment Act; but there were two circumstances which the House ought to consider before coming to the conclusion that a clause which was applicable to England would be equally applicable to Ireland. The first of those circumstances was, that in England there had existed "a separate system" previous to the passing of the Poor-law Bill. And the second was, that in this country the law of settlement had also previously existed. It was, therefore, easy to carry the provisions of a clause similar to that which the hon. Gentleman had proposed into operation in England; but the circumstances of Ireland were so different, that he feared such a clause would be productive of injury rather than good, and be should therefore feel it to be his duty to oppose it.
 Viscount Morpeth  would not enter into the discussion of the legal question; he rose merely to state, that there was not the slightest warrant for the injurious terms in which the right hon. Gentleman had spoken of Ministers on this occasion, for the question had been mooted one night last week, when Government had distinctly reserved it for further consideration; and the words now proposed for insertion had been printed and circulated, and in the hands of hon. Members for the last four days.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the Committee having before expressed a very decided opinion on this point, he should not now re-discuss the question. He considered that his noble Friend, having adopted the suggestion thrown out on the other side, had done all that was required.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, he must abide by the clause in its present shape.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that promotion to the rank of head constables was confined to those who had served as sub-constables; there was no rule whatever to make them the superior officers of the force.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the right hon Baronet had correctly quoted, he believed, the very words used by him in introducing the Bill, and in every instance of an appointment to the force since that time it had always been left in the hands of the inspector-general.
 Sir H. Vivian  said, that having frequently on former occasions given his opinion on this subject, he would enter upon it now as briefly as possible. Before, however, he entered upon the subject at all, he must express his deep regret that the hon. and gallant mover should have taken this opportunity to make an attack on his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Evans.) Whatever might be the justice or injustice of that attack, this was not the time for making it. He thought, from all the opportunities he had of learning the facts from his hon. and gallant Friend and other officers, that although corporal punishment might have been occasionally, and, if hon. Members opposite chose, he would say frequently, had recourse to by his hon. and gallant Friend, yet looking at the extraordinary situation in which his hon. and gallant Friend was placed, and the difficulties with which he had to contend, he must say, that his hon. and gallant Friend had brought the Legion into a very tolerable state of discipline, with, perhaps, a less degree of punishment than had ever been inflicted under similar circumstances. The hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham had re-
 1258 "The experience of the lieutenant-general has convinced him that nothing destroys the effect of this species of punishment so soon as its familiarity; and, however appalling it may appear in the first instance, the frequent recurrence of it is equally fatal in the end, to discipline, as well as to that high moral feeling upon which the professional character of armies and regiments can alone ultimately depend. By a judicious exercise of the powers so vested in them, there can be no doubt that the necessity for corporal punishment may in a great degree be avoided, more especially if accompanied by the strictest possible attention on the part of officers to the duty of the interior. The lieutenant-general has ever considered that the man who at an early age quits his home, his family, and his friends for the service of his king and country, has a right to claim from those under whose command he is placed, an anxious endeavour to promote his happiness and welfare. The captain, or officer in command of each troop or company, stands to the soldier belonging to it in the relation of a parent, and should consider himself called upon, as far as lies in his power, to fulfil the duties of one. The habits, the temper, the wants, and even the wishes of every man confided to his charge should be attended to, and, as far as possible, consulted. If well con-
 1259 "In 1831 (the first year), in an army of 22,373, the number of corporal punishments was 254, the number of desertions 182, and the number of persons imprisoned 673. Whilst in 1834, the army having been raised to 23,948 men, the number of corporal punishments was 154, the number of desertions 397, and the number of persons imprisoned 1,532." 1260 1261
 Mr. Pemberton  said, that the inquiry before the select Committee in 1834 upon this subject had brought him to the conclusion, that it would be utterly impossible, consistently with the safety and discipline of the army, to abolish the use of corporal punishment. He entirely concurred in the forcible expression of the Secretary at War, who on that occasion said, "If you abolish coporal punishment you had better disband the army altogether." With this conviction he could not but think it highly inexpedient and dangerous, that the subject should again be brought under the discussion of the House. It was not his purpose, therefore, on the present occasion to enter upon the merits of the question, but chiefly to offer a few observations on a point of law stated incidentally to the present debate by the hon. Baronet, the Member for East Cornwall, and in reference to which he thought it highly desirable, that the Law Officers of the Crown should express their opinion to the House. He certainly had understood the hon. and gallant Officer, the Member for Westminster, when on a former occasion he made so temperate and, if he would permit him to add, able defence of his conduct in reference to the affairs of Spain, to challenge Gentlemen on this (the Opposition) side of the House to bring forward any grounds of charge against him, and he could assure the hon. and gallant Officer, that in whatever he might now be about to say, he had no intention of treating the subject as one bearing personally on that hon. and gallant Officer, but as a question of principle of vital importance to our army. He would not pretend to say to what extent the corporal punishments in the Legion were justified by the circumstances of the case, nor would he speak of that army in the terms which had been sometimes applied to them, such as the "offscourings of society," and so forth. His observations would have reference solely to the mode in which corporal punishments had been administered amongst that body of troops. He thought it was no more than due to those who did not shrink from the unpopular responsibility
 1264 1265 1266
 Sir H. Vivian  rose to explain. We understood him to say, that he had never seen the orders of the hon. and gallant Officer in Spain; and that what he had said was, that he thought that upon scrutinising the matter it might be found that similar cases of punishment had sometimes occurred in our own army, and that he doubted whether, under the circumstances, they would not be justifiable by the articles of war.
 Viscount Horvick  said, he had no intention to enter into the merits of the incidental discussion which had been raised, and which he could not help saying had been most inopportunely introduced. Neither upon the motion before the House did he propose making many observations; for, in the first place, the question had been already fully discussed; and, in the second, he found that the opinions he entertained upon it might be expressed in very few words. He objected to the appointment of the proposed Committee on several grounds. Firstly, he objected to it on the ground that no such inquiry as that of a Select Committee was required, or could be attended with the slightest advantage. A question of the magnitude and importance of that to which the motion referred could not be decided by the Report of a Select Committee; the House must determine whether the system of punishment, at present in force in the army, might be dispensed with, and what should be substituted in stead. The only object of a Committee would be to collect facts, on which to form an opinion; but, in the present instance, all parties, whether those in favour of the existing system or those who opposed it, seemed to be in full possession of all the facts which, either  pro con 1279 1280
 Sir H. Vivian  said, that during the period when he commanded the forces in Ireland, the system on which the affairs of the hospital were managed had been greatly improved. He would do his utmost to eradicate any abuses that might still remain, but he would always advocate the maintenance of the establishment itself, as a retreat for Irish soldiers. Great discontent,
 1290
 Viscount Horvick  said, that when he succeeded to the office of Secretary-at-War, he found regulations restricting the admission of pensioners into Kilmainham already framed. These had not since been rescinded, but the subject was now under consideration, and he was prepared to remove them whenever due security should be offered to him, that the reasons which had induced his right hon. Friend, the Member for Coventry, when Secretary at War, to prohibit the admission of pensioners into that establishment should not again recur. In 1834, persons under thirty were found in the hospital, whose services of course could have been of no long duration, while several others had served only in the yeomanry. He would not now discuss the question, whether it were necessary to maintain two hospitals of this kind in the kingdom or not, but if Kilmainham were to be preserved, its inmates ought to be soldiers whose services had been long and meritorious. He had proposed to the general commanding-in-chief, that the hospital should be opened under certain conditions, but he could not consent to that measure, unless he had full security that all who sought admission had good and valid claims.
 Captain Boldero  felt bound to repel the unwarrantable insinuation which had been thrown out against him. He had always stood up in that House as an advocate for the abolition of corporal punishment; and simply because the conduct of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster had been brought under notice while in Spain, what right had the right hon. Member who had just sat down to impute to him improper motives in bringing forward his motion?—
 Captain Boldero  felt bound to bow to the opinion of the chair, but must, notwithstanding, say, that the hon. Member had imputed to him an improper and un-
 1278
 Captain Boldero  was taken by surprise at the observations that had been made by the Chair. He had given notice, on his first taking his seat in that House, in the present Session, that he should move for leave to bring in a bill relative to military punishment. Some short time since, the
 1250
 Captain Boldero  rose to bring forward his motion respecting rewards and punishments in the army. A commission had been appointed on this subject, and composed of hon. and intelligent men. But none of its members appeared favourable to the abolition of corporal punishment, nor was any medical witness named except one, and he not upon the general question. This commission recommended several alterations in the system of military punishments; and he (Captain Boldero) moved on this occasion for a Committee to consider whether these alterations had been beneficial to the army. Let the House compare the system of punishment now carried on with that practised ten years
 1252 1253 1254 1255 d. s., d., s. d., s. 1256
 Colonel Davies  should oppose the motion for this simple reason, that a Committee had already inquired. That Committee had every species of evidence before it which could, by any possibility, be obtained; and he, therefore, did not see that any good result would follow the appointment of another Committee. He thought that the experiment of abolishing altogether corporal punishment could not be safely made. The want of some such discipline had often been severely felt in the French army. When Massena retreated from before the lines of Torres Vedras, the track of his soldiers was marked by burning buildings, and he had heard the French people often declare, that they suffered less from the passage of the British army than from their own troops. For these reasons he should hesitate to vote for the total abolition of corporal punishment. He thought, that, if commissions were reserved for soldiers who had served ten or twelve years in the army, the character of the soldiery would be improved; and placing before them the prospect of such a reward would go much further to reform them than such motions as the present.
 Lord Hotham  wished to say, that the hon. and gallant Officer was mistaken in supposing that he had introduced this subject with any reference to the approaching discussion of to-morrow. He could only answer, as the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department knew, that but for an accidental circumstance, to which it was not necessary now to allude, he should have made this statement on the night on which the army estimates were brought on.
 Lord Hotham   rose, not for the purpose of offering any opposition to this grant, but for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a matter of great public importance. As this grant involved a question of military reform, he could not refrain from saying a few words on the subject of the high mark of military distinction so improperly conferred, in his opinion, on the hon. and gallant Officer, the Member for Westminster. He knew not whether that hon. and gallant Officer was at that moment in the House. [Sir G. De L. Evans bowed.] He was happy to have the opportunity of stating in that hon. and gallant Officer's presence, that nothing was further from his intention than to cast any reflection either upon the gallant Offi-
 1283 1284 1285 1286
 Lord John Russell  wished only to observe, that he considered they ought to adhere to the ancient rule of the House, which was, that when the question was put that the Speaker do leave the chair, any motion made ought to have a direct bearing on the question at issue. He thought it was according to the ancient rule of the House, that after the question had been put that the Speaker do leave the chair, no motion be made which had not a direct relation to the bill which was to be committed. He would not now object to the motion of the hon. and gallant Member being brought forward on this occasion, because he considered it as having a direct bearing on the main question.
 Lord John Russell  said, the Speaker had, no doubt, stated the case very properly, but he (Lord John Russell) had always intended that the hon. and gallant Member should bring on his motion upon that stage of the bill. He had no objection to the motion being proceeded with, and perhaps the gallant Gentleman might frame his motion in some other shape. Suppose he was to move an instruction to the Committee to postpone the punishment clauses; in such a case he might effect his object, and at the same time avoid coming in collision with the rules of the House.
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt  could not
 1277
 Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt  begged to assure the hon. and gallant Officer, that nothing was further from his intention than to impute to him either an improper or unmanly motive in bringing forward his motion. All he intended to convey was the fear, that the motion might have been suggested to him by others who desired to found upon it an attack against the hon. and gallant Officer, the Member for Westminster.
 Mr. C. Poulett Thomson  moved, that a resolution to the effect that the names of Members ordered to bring in private bills should be printed on the back of such bills. The motion was one of considerable importance as regarded the convenience of the House, and one, therefore, to which he thought the House would have no objection to give its consent.
 Mr. C. Poulett Thomson  said, that he must agree with the hon. Member for Salford, that the question suggested by the
 1293
 Mr. Shaw  inquired whether it was the intention of Government to continue Kilmainham Hospital on its former footing? The staff of the hospital, he observed, was maintained on a very liberal scale, while the number of pensioners was very trifling.
 Sir G. De Lacy Evans  said, he would only trouble the House very briefly. He had stated before, in reference to this subject, that he thought it would be a very useful and salutary measure, if the same rule were adopted with respect to the Order of the Bath which was acted upon in the case of certain appointments made in the navy—if a statement of the services of the individuals who received that distinction were inserted in the army estimates. Each of those cases might then be discussed by the House, if the exercise of the royal prerogative should be deemed to be a subject fit to engage the attention of the House. Should the House so judge it proper, a discussion of the services of the persons honoured by this mark of royal approbation would be very fair and beneficial. But he held it only one of the many acts of injustice done towards him, part of the persecution he had to undergo, to fix upon his particular service, or want of service, without any comparison with that of others. It would be highly invidious and improper in him to enter on an examination of the services of the officers who had received this distinction, but he invited, he challenged a comparison; he was ready to consent that his services should be put upon the same paper with those of any of those officers. He repeated, he should be extremely glad of it; but these remarks seemed to him to be almost superfluous upon the eve of a long discussion which had reference to this very topic. The noble Lord's zeal, however, was so ardent that he seemed to wish to anticipate it. To-morrow night, he supposed, it would be discussed whether or not any services on his humble part had been performed recently or not. He was not at all surprised that the noble Lord opposite questioned the propriety of conferring on him the honour
 1289
 Sir G. de Lacy Evans  had not the least wish to use any expression which might be considered improper. He, therefore, retracted it, since he was directed by the chair to alter the word, though he was quite aware of the nature of the feelings evinced on the other side. He could assure hon. Members opposite that he had not the least objection to a continuance of that feeling, provided it were as abortive as in the present instance, because it rather enhanced the honour conferred upon him than depreciated it.
 Sir G. de Lacy Evans  said, that every thing regarding the Legion had been made the subject of great exaggeration throughout the country; he was sure hon. Gentle-
 1267 1268 1269 1270
 Sir G. De Lacy Evans  begged to explain. He knew it had been said, that as he signed the document containing the conditions of the service, it was as binding on him as on the men. Now, the fact was, that the document itself was only signed by the Spanish minister, and all he did was to certify that a true copy was made of it, leaving the men to accept or reject the conditions as they thought proper.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the motion of the gallant Member was perfectly analogous to the subject which was before the House.
 Sir H. Hardinge  resumed. He was sure the gallant Officer was too straightforward and manly not to have determined never to accept the command if the Spanish Government were to lay down any other regulations for the conduct of the Legion but the British articles of war. The third article stated distinctly that the force was to be governed in all military matters in conformity with the British articles of war, and in matters not connected with the military department according to the laws of the country in which they were to serve. This article bore on its face the name of the gallant Officer opposite, who thus morally became responsible for its observance, and was so considered, and most naturally so considered, by the soldiers of the Legion. Too late, however, they found out that a totally different system was to be observed towards them from that sanctioned in the British army, for it was notorious that the commanding officers of the Legion regiments received from the gallant Officer powers of punishment which in the British army would not be given to general officers. The gallant Officer in August, 1835, a few days after the Legion landed at San Sebastian, and before the British system had even been tried, issued a general order, of which the following is an extract:—
 "For the present there will be one deputy provost-marshal, with the rank and pay of ensign. This officer is to be attached to headquarters generally, but is liable to be sent with any brigade, regiment, or detachment, as may be directed. Each regiment will, until further orders, have a sergeant-assistant provost, selected from the most able-bodied, steadiest, and most efficient of the non-commissioned officers, with the pay of quarter-master-sergeant. The assistant-provosts to be under the control of the deputy-provost marshal, but all are liable to receive orders from general and staff officers and regimental commanding officers—provided always that such instructions are not in opposition to the following outline of the duties of the provost, viz.:—All provost-marshals and their assistants are empowered to inflict summary punishment (on the breech) to an amount not exceeding two dozen, according to the degree of offence, on soldiers and followers of the Legion found in the commission of offences against discipline, plundering, drunkenness, violence, and, in short, every offence tending to the subversion of good order in an army. The provost must either see the offence himself, or have it from the testimony of competent eye-witnesses." conditions 1275 1276 l.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that although he had the misfortune to differ on many points from the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down, he was satisfied, that in arriving at the resolution to which he had come, of not inflicting capital punishments, he was actuated by the dictates of humanity; and in any observation which he should make on the conduct of the gallant Officer, he wished to be understood as not
 1271 1272 1273
 The Speaker : I must again tell the hon. Member that he is mistaken; and I would put it to him wether he is justified in making the call he has done.
 The Speaker : I think the hon. Member is mistaken. I am not aware that any imputation has been cast on the hon. Member.
 The Speaker  said, the reason why he had called the attention of the House to the subject, was, it having struck him that great difficulty must necessarily arise by entertaining a motion which might delay the passing of the Mutiny Bill. It was for the House to determine whether it considered the motion of the hon. Member (Captain Boldero) was strictly analogous with the moving of the order for going into a Committee on the Mutiny Bill.
 The Speaker  put the question, "that I now leave the chair;" upon which—
 The Speaker  said, it was necessary to call the attention of the hon. Member (Captain Boldero) to a resolution passed at the beginning of the Session, that no motion could be brought on on Fridays or Mondays on moving the Orders of the Day, unless it had a direct bearing upon the question before it.
 The Speaker  said, that his reason for mentioning the subject was, that the present was the first case of the kind that had occurred. He only wished that the House should come to some clear understanding upon the question for his own guidance.
 The Speaker  reminded the hon. and gallant Member, that it was improper to use a term imputing motives of this kind to any hon. Member.
 The Speaker  said, that there was no doubt that the system, if it were always adopted, was extremely inconvenient, but it was a practice which was not necessarily followed. Various expedients had been tried with a view to correct the inconvenience arising from it, but they had, as yet, been unsuccessful.
 Mr. Poulter  said, that he felt bound to vote for the motion, as he was most anxious that inquiry should take place on this most important subject. He was desirous to introduce a better spirit into the army, and to give the soldier some motives for good behaviour, and some object of ambition. He was afraid that such a system had never been fairly tried. It had been attempted to connect the unfortunate punishment of flogging with the glorious achievements of the British army. He contended that these achievements were owing to a very different cause. They were owing to the high and generous feeling, and the natural superiority of the British troops. His hon. and gallant Friend had been charged with inconsistency on this subject. Now, he could see nothing inconsistent in his gallant Friend declaring his opinion on the hustings, and voting according to that opinion for the abolition of corporal punishment, and departing from this strict rule when placed at the head of a body of undisciplined troops. His hon. and gallant Friend must either have done so, or abandoned all hope of disciplining his army. He would vote for the motion of the hon. and gallant Member, because it was, he thought, the last hope of getting rid of a punishment which was odious in the sight of the whole British people.
 Mr. Brotherton  thought, that the subject-matter of the complaint of the hon. Member for Finsbury did not apply to the present motion. The motion had reference to the hon. Member by whom a bill was brought in, while the suggestion of the hon. Member would only apply to the hon. Member who moved its second reading.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. Member for Salford had precisely pointed out the objection of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He did not see any reason why the person bringing in the bill should be selected to sit on the Committee. By this course being always adopted, it was in the power of the agent for the bill to select whom he pleased to sit on the Committee.
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that Government would suppress the hospital altogether. The evidence before the Select Committee of the House clearly proved, that the details of its management was nothing but a series of jobs.
 Mr. Hume  was very sorry, that the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down, while he professed himself anxious to find a substitute for corporal punishment, refused to vote for an inquiry the object of which was to discover such a substitute. It appeared to him that the hon. and gallant Officer, while he was anxious to do away with corporal punishment, stated rather strangely, if he (Mr. Hume) interpreted him rightly, that the result of the abolition of severe corporal punishment had been to render crimes much more numerous. If inquiry were granted they would, in all probability, find some good reason for this. The hon. and gallant Member for Worcester (Colonel Davis) said, that they had had inquiry already, and that further inquiry was unnecessary. The hon. and gallant Colonel might not recollect that since that inquiry there had been a great change, a system of rewards and a variation of punishments had been put into operation; and he, for one, wanted to know what had been the effect of that change, and whether it had been beneficial or prejudicial? He was clearly of opinion, that it would turn out that this new system had not been tried sufficiently. The hon. and gallant General (Sir H. Vivian) said, that no good could arise from inquiries and discussions on this subject. He (Mr. Hume) recollected the day when it was thought impossible to do without ten times the present quantity of corporal punishment; but, in consequence of the discussions in that House, and the effect produced on the public opinion, a great change had taken place. That change had been much for the better, but he still thought that a greater change ought to take place. He would support the inquiry proposed by the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham, because he hoped it would discover the means of dispensing with corporal punishment entirely in time of peace, if not in time of war and in the face of the enemy. He would ask, then, why the House should refuse inquiry? It was his intention to move for returns to show, what had been the state of punishment in the army since the last return, how many men had been flogged and how many imprisoned, and also how many had been promoted, as a means of rewarding them. One of the objects of the Committee would be, to see to what extent the system of rewards had been tried, whether it had been applied equally to every regiment, and whether the effect of it was good or bad? Such an
 1263
 Mr. Wakley  said, that he entirely concurred in the propriety of the motion, but he wished that the right hon. Gentleman had gone farther, and had applied it to the regulation of the course adopted in bringing in private bills. At present Committees were appointed, no doubt with the strictest impartiality, whose duty it was, to investigate private bills; but by the course pursued in reference to the bringing in of those bills the course of proceeding of the Committees was changed. The practice was, for some person who desired to do a little job, and to carry the bill through the House, to fix upon some hon. Member to propose it, and to carry it through its stages. Now, this hon. Member was always selected as a member of the Committee, and was then usually appointed Chairman. In the course of his experience he had become acquainted with the extent of the power exercised by the Chairman of such Committees, and he well knew the advantages which they were able to gain. If the Chairman should find any particular member adverse to his plans, an adjournment was the consequence, and this was continued from time to time until the hon. Member was absent from town, or was compelled to be absent from his place, and then the bill was carried through. Now, such a system as this ought not to continue, and he hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would enlarge his motion, by adding to it, that no other person besides those who were nominated at the beginning of the Session by the Speaker should sit on the Committees on private bills.
 Mr. Wakley  begged to assure the right hon. Gentleman that his observations applied to no individual Member of the House, but to the principle generally. If the motion should be pressed he certainly should not oppose it, but he regretted that the reform of such matters should be effected piecemeal.
 Sir A. Dalrymple : with respect to the provost system, declared his opinion that the duties of the provost-marshal were never intended to enforce military discipline. There were attached to all armies men who were not soldiers, and who in the field were under the authority and inspection of the provost-marshal. He was authorised to punish them when found thieving or marauding; but to punish a man under arms by the provost-marshal, he would take upon himself to say was a thing unheard of in the annals of war. The subject was one of considerable importance, as it involved a most dangerous precedent. He declared again that to bring man up to the provost for not doing his duty on parade was a most abominable and degrading mode of proceeding.
 Sir C. Broke Vere  hoped, the House would not be led, by any mistaken notions of humanity, to do that which would materially weaken the discipline, it was essential to maintain in the army.
 Sir F. Trench  then rose, to bring under the consideration of the House an alteration in the position of the Houses of Lords and Commons, which, he contended, without any important derangement of the general plan, would very much contribute to the comfort and health of the Members of both Houses. He said that he should occupy a few moments in stating his views, the more especially as the House was now so thinly attended. The simple question which hon. Members would, in effect, have to consider was, whether they would choose an artificial ventilation of the House, in preference to a natural ventilation. The former would, according to the plan which was already proposed, be necessarily adopted, while if they should give their assent to the proposition which he should have to make, they would select the latter, which appeared to
 1291
 Sir Robert Peel  said, the proposition of the noble Lord was so preposterous and ridiculous that it could not for a moment be entertained. Perhaps the noble Lord would allow the original motion to be brought on, as it was impossible that the House could agree to an instruction to the Committee to postpone the Mutiny Bill until some other Committee had reported.
 Viscount Howick  thought, that the hon. Member had not takena correct view of what had really taken place, The fact was, that the Mutiny Bill had been read a second time without discussion, upon the understanding that the discussion was to be taken upon the bill in Committee. The hon. Member, therefore, had lost nothing by the bill being read a second time. With respect to the objection now taken, he would respectfully ask the chair whether the resolution of the House did not arise more with respect to the reading of the order of the day than bringing such subjects as those involved in the notice of the hon. Member under discussion. He presumed that the House had now agreed to the reading of the orders of the day for the House going into Committee on the Mutiny Bill. For his own part, he had no objection whatever to the hon. Gentleman making his motion, provided he could do so consistently with the rules of the House.
 Viscount Howick  moved the order of the day for the House to go into a Committee of the whole House on the Mutiny Bill.
 Viscount Palmerston  observed, that it was not to him matter of the least surprise, that the honour which had been so deservedly bestowed on his hon. and gallant Friend behind him should have been disapproved of in those societies which the noble Lord opposite was in the habit of frequenting; entertaining, as the noble Lord did, peculiar sentiments as to the services which his hon. and gallant Friend had performed—it was to be expected, that as the noble Lord and his friends disapproved of the object of those services, and felt no satisfaction at the result which they had produced—it was to be expected, that they should condemn the mark of approbation which had been bestowed on his hon. and gallant Friend as a recompense for those services. But the noble Lord must excuse him if he could not accept either his opinion or the opinion of those friends whom he quoted as correct organs of public opinion upon this subject. The noble Lord was mistaken in his opinion as to the bearing of the statutes of the order upon this exercise of the royal prerogative. There was no part of the statutes of the Order of the Bath which required that any officer, in order to be appointed a member of the second class, should have previously been a member of the lowest class. [Lord  Hotham: 1287 1288
 Mr. Vernon Smith  felt it necessary to
 1362 1363 "noscitur a sociis," Annual Register 1364 1365 1366 1367
 Mr. Pemberton  could not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that the present motion bore any similarity to those to which he had alluded as having been made on former occasions. The object of the present motion was to call upon the House to discuss the course pursued with regard to Spain by her Majesty's Government, and if they should find that it had been unattended by any advantages, either to Spain or to England, then to address her Majesty, beseeching her not to renew those Orders in Council which had hitherto proved in their operation so unproductive of benefit. The hon. Gentleman, instead of addressing himself to the great question involved in this motion, had made a speech composed entirely of the same materials in which what hon. Gentlemen opposite called the barbarity of the Carlists had, on many former occasions, been railed against—and had accused the Conservative party with abetting and favouring despotic principles. He would tell that hon. Gentleman what was the principle of this motion. It was that great principle that this country ought not to interfere in the internal affairs of others without adequate cause. It was the object of this motion to assert that by such an interference as had been adopted with regard to the affairs of Spain that great and most important principle had been violated—and, therefore, to call upon the House to address her Majesty, in the hope that such a course of policy would no longer be persevered in. The principle they thus called upon the House to assert was one which, unless he was much mistaken, he had heard asserted by
 1368 * * 1369 1370 1371 "There are now about 10,000 or 12,000 persons in arms in one of the remote provinces of Spain, and it is to put down this partial and local insurrection that the present effort is to be made, And here I will answer the question of the noble Lord who asks me on which side is the majority of the Spanish nation, and I have no hesitation in saying, that the great majority of the nation is with the Queen. The proof of this fact is to be found in the circumstance, that for nearly a year and a half the resistance of her authority has been confined to two or three particular provinces, and that no disturbances have broken out in any other parts of the kingdom." 1372 1373 "These additional articles were signed in the month of August, 1834, and in the month of Nov., 1834, I was called upon to carry the treaty into execution. It was not then considered to be a treaty of the description given by the noble Viscount, it was not considered as a treaty for the preservation of the peace of Europe, or as a plan for great operations to be performed by arms. My Lords, I have a right to say this, because I myself had an explanation on the subject—first with the Government of the King of the French, in which it was clearly stated, that the parties were bound not to interfere in the internal concerns of Spain, or in the contest then going on in that country—it was so stated distinctly at that period, and the statement having been communicated to all the parties in the treaty and in the additional articles was satisfactory to all. The noble Viscount appears to be of a different opinion. I refer to the despatch to prove the truth of my statement. That I assert was the distinct understanding of all the parties in the treaty." * * 1374 1375
 Mr. Herbert  said, that as far as he had yet seen the progress of the Spanish Government, he could not come to the conclusion which appeared to have been arrived at by several hon. gentlemen opposite, and bring himself to think that that Government would exhibit any extraordinary extent of freedom and civilization. The hon. and gallant Officer opposite, the Member for Brighton, (Captain Pechell) appeared to advocate a co-operation with the Spanish Government, under the expectation that they would in gratitude follow up and fully and fairly carry into execution the treaty of 1835, for the suppression of the slave trade. The past experience of the good faith of the Spanish Government, would tend to show the little foundation which existed for entertaining such a hope. He was not one of those who thought that the progress of liberal opinions in Spain afforded any security for the suppression of the slave-trade. The strenuous resistance given to it by the de-
 1351 1352 "No, no!" 1353
 Sir H. Vivian  could assure the House, that it was with great reluctance he threw himself upon their attention and indulgence. As the question under discussion, however, bore reference to the profession to which he had the honour to belong, he hoped to be indulged for a short time. He had listened with great attention to the speeches of hon. Gentlemen at the other side of the House, more particularly to the speech of his noble colleague in the representation of East Cornwall, (Lord Eliot) part of which had afforded him great pleasure, as being both creditable to the noble Lord himself, and advantageous to humanity. He could not, however, bring himself to think that it was at all
 1354 1355 1356 1357
 Lord Eliot  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to call the attention of the House to the Order in Council authorising the employment of the subjects of this realm in the service of her Catholic Majesty. In doing so, he should find it necessary to bring under their consideration the general policy pursued towards Spain by her Majesty's Government. He trusted that, in the discussion into which he was about to enter, he should be able to discharge his own duty without either acrimony or violence, and that he should not use any expression which would betray a want of good feeling towards the members of her Majesty's Government. Were he to be guilty of any such want of respect to the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Department, he should display a great want of civility, as from that noble Lord he had himself received nothing but kindness and attention. On his return from Spain, that noble Lord was at the head of the Foreign Department of his late Majesty's Government; and was, therefore, from his situation the judge of his conduct in the political mission which he had returned from discharging. The noble Lord had instantly signified to him his cordial approbation of the manner in which he had performed the duties of the mission intrusted to his care. He, therefore, hoped that he should say nothing which would be inconsistent with the kindness which he had received
 1321 1322 de facto 1323 1324 1325 fueros. 1326 1327 1328 "When the Legion disembarked in Spain the Carlist force in the Basque provinces and in Navarre consisted of about 30,000 regular troops. About 8,000 insurgents were in arms in Catalonia, and in Arragon Cabrera and Forcadell were at the head of about 4,000 men. The total force thus amounted to rather more than 40,000 men. At the present moment the Carlist regular force in the Basque provinces and in Navarre amounts to about 35,000 men; in Catalonia to about 18,000, formed into regular battalions; in Lower Arragon and Valencia Cabrera commands 34,000 men under arms, besides 20,000 who remain in their villages unless their services are required on any particular emergency, The total force is, then, 79,000 men. Of the guerilla bands in La Mancha, Estremadura, and Sorio, it is difficult to form an estimate. Catalonia, with the exception of the banks of the Ebro and of the sea shore, is now entirely in the hands of the Carlists, who are in undisputed possession of Berga, Solsona, and all the towns of the interior. All Lower Arragon and Valencia, with the exception of a few large towns, are occupied by the troops of Cabrera, who has placed commandants in every village. At Cantavieja he has established a foundery, and cast fourteen pieces of artillery. The Basque provinces remain in much the same state as when the Legion disembarked excepting that the manufactories of arms have been augmented, and the defences of the country have been strengthened. A traveller may now proceed with a passport from Don Carlos from the Pyrenees to within a short distance of Valencia without interruption by the Christinos, except at the passage of the Ebro, and will be furnished with mules and guides by the authorities on the whole of the road." 1329 1330 1331 Member: l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1332 Toto certatum corpore regni. * * 1333 "That an humble address be presented to her Majesty, expressing to her Majesty the opinion of this House, that no advantage, either to the interests of this country or to those of Spain, has resulted from the employment of her Majesty's subjects in the service of her Catholic Majesty, in consequence of the suspension, by order in Council, of the provisions of the Foreign Enlistment Act; and since the continuance of such order in Council is not
 1334
 Lord John Russell : The House will see that, as the right hon. Gentleman, in putting his question to me, has gone into some detail, it will be necessary for me to go to a greater length than would otherwise have been requisite in answering him; but, to put myself within the rules of the House, I shall now move, that the House resolve itself into a Committee to take into consideration the question of Irish tithes on a certain day, to be hereafter named. The right hon. Gentleman has stated, that four months have elapsed, and that no measure has been brought forward with respect to Irish tithes. It does appear to me that it is the better course; and the more I consider all that passed last year, the more I am confirmed in that opinion, that the House should give its attention, as much as possible, to certain measures that are brought forward; that we should dispose of those measures in as short a time as we are able, in order to send them to the House of Lords, so that that branch of the Legislature may, from time to time, have them under its consideration; and that we should not be obliged to send to them all our measures at the same time, and thus subject them to the unpleasant necessity either of rejecting them, or of entertaining them when, according to their declarations, there is not sufficient time to give them a separate and due consideration. In illustration of what I have stated, I beg to say, that the first measure recommended by her Majesty to the serious consideration of Parliament, viz., the Poor Relief (Ireland) Bill, has been seriously considered, not only on the second reading, but during ten nights that it has been in the Committee. I do not think, then, it can be said either that the recommendations made by her Majesty to this House have been neglected, or that it would have been wise to interrupt the progress of the Poor-law for Ireland by the introduction of any other.
 1316 1317 
 "1. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that Tithe Composition in Ireland should be commuted into a rent-charge at the rate of seven-tenths of their amount, to be charged on the owner of the first estate of inheritance. "2. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that on the expiration of existing interests, so much of such rent-charge as shall be payable in lieu of Ecclesiastical Tithe, should be purchased by the State, at the rate of sixteen
 1318 "3. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for Ireland should be empowered, with the consent of the Incumbents, to demand from the State the purchase at the same rate of any other portion of Ecclesiastical Tithe Composition or Rent Charge, not exceeding one-tenth of the whole amount in any one year. "4. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that until such Rent Charge shall be purchased or redeemed, the amount of Ecclesiastical Rent-Charge and Ministers' Money, should be paid to the Incumbents from the Consolidated Fund. "5. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the arrangement of such payments, and the investment of the purchase monies paid by the State for Ecclesiastical Rent-Charge, should be intrusted to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for Ireland. "6. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the Rent-Charges for Ecclesiastical Tithe should be appropriated by law to certain local charges now defrayed out of the Consolidated Fund, and to Education; the surplus to form part of the Consolidated Fund. "7. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the Rent-Charges for Ecclesiastical Tithe and Ministers' Money should be collected by the Commissioners of Woods and Forests for five years and until Parliament shall otherwise provide. "8. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that further provision should be made by law for the regulation of Ecclesiastical Duties, and the better distribution of Ecclesiastical Revenues in Ireland. "9. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that provision should be made for the revision of certain Tithe Compositions, where such Compositions operate with injustice. "10. That it is the opinion of this Committee, that the Rent-Charges for Lay Tithe should be collected by the Tithe-owner, and facilities afforded for redemption upon mutual agreement between the parties."
 Lord John Russell : I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, with a view to the arrangement of the business of the House, to furnish me with an answer to the question which I took the liberty of putting on Friday, as to whether it be the intention of the noble Member for Lancashire, as on former occasions, or whether it be the intention of any other Member on the opposite side of the House, to move an instruction to the Committee on the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill, authorising the total abolition of the Irish Municipal Corporations.
 Mr. Poulter  thought, that this Motion was made, not because it was considered that the Government showed want of energy, or that his hon. and gallant Friend, (Sir De Lacy Evans), exhibited any defect of talent, but because our hopes had not, in all respects, and to the highest degree, been fulfilled. The Motion of the noble Lord was similar to that brought forward by the hon. and gallant Member for Launceston, shortly after the reverse of the 16th of March. The very same kind of appeal was now made, when general disappointment prevailed at the dismissal of the British Legion, and when considerable depression was produced on the minds of those attached to the constitutional government in Spain, because they felt, that the talents and energy of his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Evans), were calculated, in a very high degree, to promote the success of the constitutional cause. Now, he would ask the noble Lord (Elliot), or the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir Henry Hardinge), whether any man, when he reflected on the whole state and merits of the case, could have any difficulty in finding a complete solution of the question, why the efforts of the Government, and of his hon. and gallant Friend, had not been more successful? Did not everybody know, that there were other parties who had failed in that honest and sincere co-operation, which they were bound to have afforded, in concurrence with the efforts of this country? Was it not known, that in the debates on this subject, in the chamber of deputies in France, many honourable and independent Members started up, and stated their regret at the miserable and false position in which their country was placed, and contrasted the inactivity and apathy of their government with the honest efforts and energy displayed by that of England. He knew that this was a subject on which great delicacy must be observed. He knew it was one on which the mouths of the Ministers must be shut; he was aware of the delicacy, or rather, the indelicacy, of making reflections on a prince with whom we were on terms of amity; but he maintained, (and he said it with deep regret) that one of the main parties to an honourable treaty, had not only not acted up to its spirit, but had trampled it under foot. Yes, while Don Carlos had been
 1349 1350
 Mr. Sheil  said, the learned Gentleman, who has just sat down, has announced, that the object of this Motion is to lay down the principle of non-interference. But as the Quadruple treaty was an interference, and the Duke of Wellington had carried that into effect, the object adverted to by the hon. Gentleman is incompatible with the obligations which the Duke of Wellington practically admitted to have been imposed on him. Let it also be remembered, that the noble Lord opposite, was a Member of the Government, when the original articles were signed. [Lord  Stanley: 1376 1377 1378 1379 1380 1381 The Quarterly Review 1382 1383
 Mr. Cutlar Fergusson  said, it was impossible for him to do justice to the very able and candid manner in which the noble Lord had brought forward this question. His speech was so free from every admixture of acrimony and violence, that he was quite sure that no Gentleman on his side of the House would accuse the noble Lord of being either a partisan of Don Carlos or an abettor of despotism. It was perfectly clear, from what the noble Lord had said, that the officers and soldiers of the British Legion were included in the convention which he had formed; and it followed from that, that no less than 147 individuals of that corps had been cruelly and inhumanly butchered. The House, he hoped, would on the present occasion show that they were determined to mark their abhorrence of these atrocities, and their approbation of the policy of her Majesty's Government, which was founded, as it appeared to him, on the justest principles which could regulate the decisions of statesmen. In order to arrive at a correct appreciation of the motives by which their conduct had been governed, it would be necessary to look back to the origin of this question. On the death of Ferdinand, a great change took place in the Spanish Government, and the country was delivered from an unrelenting despotism, which had for ten years oppressed it, by the accession of Queen Isabella. It was necessary that those Powers which were interested in the fate of the Peninsula should consider what line it was incumbent on them to take, in order to protect the young Sovereign against the pretensions of her uncle. The French Monarch was the first to intervene. M. Thiers had told them in one of his speeches, that on the intelligence of the death of Ferdinand France deputed an envoy to the court of Spain, with written instructions to offer the Queen Regent such succour as she should think fit; the nature and extent of it being left to herself. Let it not be said, then, that intervention was begun by the British Government. The French had set the example, and no choice was left to the British Government as to the course which it ought to pursue. To remain neutral was totally out of the question; as long as we had any interest to protect in the Peninsula, it was absolutely necessary for us to
 1335 1336 "Her Majesty, the Queen Regent of Spain during the minority of her daughter, Donna Isabella the Second, Queen of Spain and his Imperial Majesty, the Duke of Braganza, Regent of the kingdom of Portugal and of the Algarves, in the name of the Queen Donna Maria the Second, being impressed with a deep conviction that the interests of the two Crowns, and the security of their respective dominions, require the immediate and vigorous exertion of their joint efforts, to put an end to hostilities, which, though directed in the first instance, against the throne of Her most Faithful Majesty, now afford shelter and support to disaffected and rebellious subjects of the Crown of Spain; and their Majesties being desirous at the same time, to provide the necessary means for restoring to the subjects of each the blessings of internal peace, and to confirm, by mutual good offices, the friendship which they are desirous of establishing and cementing between their respective States, they have come to the determination of uniting their forces, in order to compel the Infante, Don Carlos of Spain, and the Infante, Don Miguel of Portugal, to withdraw from the Portuguese dominions. In consequence of this agreement their Majesties the Regents have addressed themselves to their Majesties, the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and the King of the French; and their said Majesties, considering the interest they must always take in the security of the Spanish Monarchy, and being further animated by the most anxious desire to assist in the establishment of peace in the Peninsula, as well as in every other part of Europe; and his Britannic Majesty, considering, moreover, the special obligations arising out of his ancient alliance with Portugal, their Majesties have consented to become parties to the proposed engagement." 1337 1338 1339 1340 1341 "Mercenary soldiers are foreigners voluntarily engaging to serve the state for money, or a stipulated pay. A great deal has been said on the question, whether the profession of a mercenary soldier be lawful or not, or whether individuals may for money, or any other reward, engage to serve a foreign prince in his wars? This question does not, to me, appear very difficult to be solved. They who enter into such engagements, without the express or tacit consent of their Sovereign, offend against their duty as subjects. But if their Sovereign leave them at liberty to follow their inclination for a military life, they are absolutely free. Now every freeman may join himself to whatever society he pleases, and which to him appears most advantageous. He may make the cause his own, and espouse the quarrel, and become, in some measure, for a time, a member of the state in the service of which he engages; and as an officer, is generally at liberty to quit the service, when he thinks proper; and, as a soldier, at the termination of his engagement. If, therefore, the state embark in a war, manifestly unjust, the foreigner may quit its service. And this mercenary soldier, having now learned the art of war, has rendered himself capable of serving his country, whenever it requires his assistance." "The noble view of acquiring instruction in the art of war, and becoming more capable of
 1342 1343 1344
 Sir Adolphus Dalrymple  observed, that the question was, of what use the Legion had been in Spain, and whether the Order in Council ought to be renewed or not. He thought the question might be now approached with more advantage than it was last Session. As to the success of the Legion, the gallant Officer who commanded that force had himself confessed that he was not responsible for the raising it; that the command had been offered to him, and that he had accepted it; that he found the difficulties of his situation much greater than he expected; that when he landed in Spain he found the inhabitants unfriendly; that in his winter quarters at Vittoria one man out of five died in hospital; and that after two years' service and many severe actions, in which the Legion had distinguished themselves in a manner that became Englishmen, St. Sebastian, where they had originally landed,
 1345 Palmerston: Palmerston: 1346
 Captain Pechell  said, he would not go back to the wars of the Black Prince, but confine himself to the question before the House, which was one of deep interest. He contended, that the Legion had rendered considerable service to Spain, and that the course pursued by Ministers was one which would, in many respects, prove advantageous to this country. It had been stated, and he believed truly, that the Government of Spain was entirely governed by the moral influence of England. What gave us that influence? The fulfilment of our engagements with her. What was its effect? The complete abolition of the slave trade. It was to the treaty of 1835, concluded by the noble Lord (Palmerston) that the abolition of that nefarious traffic was entirely owing. During the reign of Ferdinand, the Seventh, England never could obtain any moral power over the Spanish Government as regarded it; and in all that time, that hon. Gentlemen opposite held office, they could make no impression on the councils of Spain. He would next proceed to the other advantages to this country, from the fulfilment of the Quadruple Treaty with Spain. One of the chief of these was the employment of the officers of the navy in the service. That was an advantage totally neglected in the consideration of the question by the hon. Member opposite. The officers and men of two small brigs, had not only built two bridges over the most dangerous parts of the Bilbao River, but had also shown the forces of the Queen of Spain, the way to cross them in the face of the enemy, thus proving that, a long peace had neither in-
 1347
 Sir R. Peel : I will, in the first place, thank the noble Lord for the frank declaration be has made of the intentions of her Majesty's Government, and also for the proof he has afforded, that the question I asked was the natural course for me to take, inasmuch as, without any previous concert with me, he was prepared to give me an answer to my question. The noble Lord has exempted me from the necessity of giving an answer to his question, yet, as far as in my power, I will do so. The
 1319 1320
 Sir Robert Peel : Sir, as I have been for some years past rather in the habit of administering than answering questions, the noble Lord will not be surprised that I am desirous, for a few moments, of assuming the position which is somewhat more familiar to me, that of putting a question to the noble Lord. I do not this merely for the purpose of taking a lesson from the more practical experience of the noble Lord in answering questions, but because the answer which the noble Lord may give to my question may be important, and may enable me to give a more definite and satisfactory answer to the question which he has put to me, and to which I have promised to reply. The question which I wish to put to the noble Lord is, what course it is the intention of her Majesty's Government to pursue with respect to the Irish Tithe Bill and the interest of the Irish Church? It is now considerably more than four months since the attention of Parliament was formally directed to this question. In the month of November last year, on the meeting of Parliament, her Majesty directed the attention of the House of Commons and of the House of Lords to three questions relating to the domestic policy of Ireland. First, to the expediency of making a provision for the poor of Ireland, by means of a compulsory enactment of Poor-laws; secondly, to the necessity of effecting, some reform in the municipal corporations of Ireland; and, thirdly, her Majesty expressed a strong opinion, that it was very desirable to make an alteration in the law
 1314 "Question!" "That this House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House to consider the Temporalities of the Church of Ireland." "That it is the opinion of this Committee that any surplus which may remain, after fully providing for the spiritual instruction of the members of the Established Church in Ireland, ought to be applied locally to the general education of all classes of Christians." 1315
 Lord Mahon  said, it would be unnecessary and presumptuous in him to speak at any length on a subject that had been already so ably discussed; but he felt himself bound to claim the attention of the House for a short time. He begged leave to repeat what he had said on a former evening, that he did not entertain the least doubt of the valour and gallantry of the Legion, but he complained that battles should have been fought, and privations endured, at the caprice of a foreign Government, and (in the words of the resolution) without any advantage either to the interests of this country or to those of Spain. These were strong assertions against the auxiliary troops; but could it be said that England gained either glory or advantage by their exertions? The noble Lord opposite (Lord Palmerston) had defended the other evening, not only the policy of the Government towards Spain, but also that with respect to Canada, which latter (although it ended in rebellion) the noble Lord had characterised as the brightest ornament of his Administration. Now, with respect to Spain, although no one could dispute the bravery of the British Legion, and of the gallant officer who commanded it, it would be fulsome adulation, it would be uncivil irony, to say that England had gained the least glory by the policy of Government. But the noble Lord might say, that other points had been gained. What were they?
 1358 l. l. l. transientes, (cargas y gravamines) 1359 "I regret to observe, that up to the last accounts the remonstrances of Mr. Villiers have proved fruitless in any substantial result, and that the parties in whose behalf I appealed to your Lordships have remained without redress. On the contrary, I shall proceed to show your Lordship the settled design of the Spanish Government in contradiction of their diplomatic assurances to justify and perpetrate upon all foreign merchants (British included) exactions such as those I have complained of. It appears, however, by a communication of February 12, 1838, that after infinite solicitation and trouble, Mr. Macdonnell succeeded in recovering about half the money taken from him, but for the remainder was obliged to be satisfied with a very doubtful and distant security—a bill upon the Spanish duties receivable in 1839 and 1840; and such is the kind and liberal treatment which we owe to the able
 1360 "The whole of the policy of the British Government, therefore, all the operations of the British Legion, backed by the British Squadron, have effected nothing more nor less towards putting an end to the war, and giving peace to Spain and Europe, than the removal of the blockade of St. Sebastian from one point to another.… I defy any noble Lord to show, that a single advantage of any description has been gained from that day to this.… The amount of inconvenience felt by the town from the Carlist force being in its neighbourhood was neither more nor less than the unpleasantness of ladies and gentlemen residing there being prevented from taking their evening walks in the neighbourhood. This is the whole amount of the inconvenience from which the town was relieved, and the whole amount of the service rendered." 1361 "A mighty monster, of such odious mien, "That to be hated needs but to be seen."
 An hon. Member : Is there any question before the House?
 A voice : They have been disposed of.
 An hon. Member  said, it would be most unfair to proceed with the debate: many hon. Members had gone away, thinking that it was at an end.
 Mr. Morgan J. O'Connell  observed, that there was another question to be considered, and it was this, that if they took a course which was likely to revive a debate after the House had already divided upon the matter sought to be debated, whether they would not be setting a precedent which might afterwards be followed, and that would be attended with inconvenience if not with danger. He knew of many Members who had left the House, thinking
 1391
 Mr. Villiers  had met a dozen Members at least, as he came down to the House, who had left it for the night under the impression that the question had been decided. A fresh division, under such circumstances, would be no adequate test of the judgment of the House. 1395
 Mr. Lushington  said, that if the debate on Lord Eliot's motion were renewed, having voted on the question, he did not intend to give a second vote on it that evening.
 Mr. James  remarked, that he had met not less than from thirty to forty Members going from the House, and under such circumstances, it would not be fair to proceed with the debate.
 An hon. Member  said, that as he had been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. Member for Rochester, he felt it necessary to say a few words in his own vindication. He hoped that all who knew him, would admit, that he was one of the last men in the world to connive at anything that had the appearance of a party or a paltry trick. He assured the hon. Member for Rochester, that he meant him no discourtesy by the laughter on which he had remarked. He had laughed because the hon. Member had gravely called upon the Members of the Conservative party to consider the question of Spain as fairly settled by the decision of that afternoon. If they were not permitted to renew the discussion on that question, it would not be considered, either by the House or the country, as fairly settled. It was an important question—it had that evening been decided by surprise, and after the course taken by the noble Lord opposite (Russell) he thought that it would be most unfair to the Government if the discussion upon it was not immediately renewed.
 Colonel Davies  said, the question had been entirely disposed of, and he remembered a case of a similar nature which occurred when the question of Parliamentary Reform was before the House. Besides, the House had decided the question upon two different occasions last Session. The question had been fairly put and fairly decided, and if the noble Lord wanted a trial of strength between the two parties, let him give a new notice of motion.
 Lord Eliot  had certainly intended, by his motion, to cast censure upon the Government with respect to their policy towards Spain, and if possible to elicit such an expression of the feeling of the House as might induce them to change it. It was impossible that a question of such gravity could be got rid of in such a manner; and he trusted that the debate would be allowed to go on upon the question of adjournment, or that the same motion, with some verbal amendment, might be allowed to be put.
 Lord F. Egerton  conceived, that he was perfectly in order. He begged to say, that for his part he was totally unaware that the question had been put, as he believed was also the noble Lord opposite. The hon. and gallant Officer was in error, in supposing that the motion was directed against him personally. It certainly was intended to question the propriety of some of the proceedings with which he was connected, but it was intended to attack the policy of the noble Lord. He considered it from the first a party attack, if they pleased so to call it; he should say it was a Parliamentary attack on the Government of the hon. Gentlemen opposite. He had felt inclined to address the House on the question, and he was still disposed to do so if he had the opportunity; but his observations would have been directed to the speeches of the three Gentlemen connected with the Government, who last night addressed the House with all that ability which was known to distinguish them. [Cries of "Order," and "Question."]
 Lord F. Egerton  again attempted to speak, but could not obtain a hearing.
 Lord F. Egerton  rose to say a few words in explanation. [ "Order."
 Lord John Russell  moved, that the Orders of the Day be now proceeded with.
 Lord John Russell  wished to ask if the motion he had made were not regular.
 Lord John Russell  thinking it very advisable to avoid anger on a point on which it was not at all called for, rose for the purpose of again stating that he did not believe there was the least intention on either side to take an unfair advantage. It was naturally expected by himself, and those with whom he acted, that after the brilliant speech made by the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary last night, some hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House would open the debate this evening. The right hon. Gentleman had, however, stated the reason why that course had not been pursued. The whole, then, appeared to be unintentional and no party was to blame for what had occurred.
 Lord John Russell  said, if there were a motion before the House he could have no objection to proceeding with it; but, if not, he should move, that the House do now adjourn.
 Lord John Russell  doubted, whether such an amendment would be in order.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that certainly it was unfortunate that the hon. gentleman who had promised to open the debate of that evening with a speech had not arrived in the House at five o'clock, and that the right hon. Gentleman to whom he had communicated his intention had not arrived till half an hour after that time. With respect to the question itself, he partly agreed with, and partly disagreed from, the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard. It might be said with regard to one part of that motion, that the question was not of sufficient practical importance to justify the re-opening of the debate, as it had been stated last night very distinctly that the renewal of the order in Council was not now in the contemplation of Government. But with regard to the other part of it, which involved a vote of censure on the Government for its past policy towards Spain, he must say, that that was a question which could not be considered as a question merely affecting party, for the result of it, if carried, would be of considerable importance both for England and for Spain, and even for Europe at large. Therefore it was, that he could not assent to the assertion of his hon. Friend the
 1394
 Lord J. Russell  wished to mention a circumstance which was peculiar to the present case, and on which there ought to be a distinct understanding before the question was put. He understood, that many Gentlemen had paired on the motion on which the House had just divided. Now, it ought to be understood, before they went to a vote, whether those pairs were to hold good for the new motion, or were to be considered as entirely off.
 Lord J. Russell : the noble Lord appeals to me. All that I feel myself called on to say in reply to the noble Lord is, that I am quite ready to concur with him in his opinion that there was no intention on either side of the House to act with any unfairness on this occasion. With respect to any course to be pursued, I beg to say, I have nothing to do with it.
 Lord John Russell  only rose for the purpose of declaring, that it was his wish, if the debate were to be resumed at all, that it should be proceeded with forthwith. The right hon. Baronet had proposed that this question should come on again on Friday or Monday next. But he did not think that that would be convenient to the House. There were also reasons of public importance why the slavery question should be taken to-morrow, and decided, if possible, before Monday. He therefore could not agree to the adjournment of this question either to Friday or Monday. They must, therefore, either go on with the discussion now, or give a regular notice of motion on the subject. For himself, he would say, that his wish was, that the debate be proceeded with forthwith, no matter what inconvenience or injury Ministers might suffer from many Members having left the House without any intention to return.
 Mr. Hawes  supposed, that hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House wanted a fair decision on the motion of the noble Lord. He supposed, that they did not wish to take the House by surprise or to obtain any undue advantage over their political opponents. He was ready to concede this much to the hon. Gentlemen opposite; but if they insisted in forcing on a fresh discussion upon that motion, after hearing the declaration of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, that he himself had met at least a dozen Members who had left the House under the impression that it was decided, he should be inclined to retract the opinion which he had just expressed, and to unite their desire to force on a new discussion with that extraordinary surprise with which the House had been recently visited. He appealed to the Speaker, whether it were desirable that such a precedent as that now attempted, should be established for the future? If it were once set, there was not a single question on which a minority, after the main question was settled, might not again raise a discussion upon, by means of an amendment, identical in substance, but only different in expression. He felt as confident as the noble Lord below him (Lord J. Russell), that this motion, if re-opened, would lead to the same result as before. But even should his confidence be erroneous, he was sure that the hon. Gentlemen opposite would agree with him, that if the affirming of their resolution was to be of any worth to them, it must derive its value from the debate being conducted fairly, and from the decision being taken without surprise. He asked the Speaker, whether, in point of precedent, it would not be dangerous, after a question had been once decided, to re-open the main debate on the question of adjournment. If such a rule were established, it might afford a minority an opportunity of opening a new system of Parliamentary warfare, of which the hon. Gentlemen opposite might be the first to feel the effects.
 Mr. Hawes  said, when the noble Lord opposite talked of having been taken by surprise, he must reply, that if any party had been taken by surprise, it was the Members on his (the Ministerial) side of the House. They were taken entirely by surprise. [ "No!" "No, no!" 1389
 Mr. C. Buller  felt it necessary to offer one or two observations to the House, in consequence of what had just fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. If this question had been a question of practical importance—if it had been a question on which the future policy of this country had depended—it might have been desirable for the Government to have obtained a definite opinion upon it from the majority of the House: but he could not understand the question as one having any practical bearing or importance whatsoever. It was a mere party question, brought forward by hon. Gentlemen opposite with no view to any useful practical object. The only practical object which it could have in view was doubtless very honourable to the gentlemen opposite—for it was that of turning out the present Ministry and installing themselves in the places so vacated. It was nothing more than a mere empty vote of censure on her Majesty's Government. It being, then, a mere party question [ "No, no," Milnes, 1393
 Mr. French  objected to the course just proposed by the right hon. Baronet. He could not assent to this debate being adjourned to an Order Day. He had been waiting for three weeks for the second reading of a bill, which he had at length got fixed for the first Order Day. He had no objection to the discussion on this motion being renewed, but then it must not be in the way now proposed.
 Sir G. De Lacy Evans : the noble Lord, I think, makes a considerable mistake in the description he gives of the nature of this question; I am also of opinion that the delicacy he would observe towards the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign
 1387
 Mr. Barron  asked, whether it were in order that such a motion as the noble Member for Hertford had just proposed, should be then put? He asked, whether it could be put consistently with the rules which had been laid down at the commencement of the Session for the due consideration of notices of motions and orders of the day?
 Mr. Goulburn , after the appeal made to the House by the Speaker, begged to say, that he, for one, had not the slightest intention of casting any imputation on the right hon. Gentleman. Undoubtedly he put the question fairly. [Cries of "twice, twice!"] Hon. Gentlemen said "twice!" but he did not hear it the second time. The fact was, that those hon. Gentlemen who intended to speak did not come down to the House in time, having concluded that other questions would have occupied the House for a longer period.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the Speaker having declared that "the noes have it," he felt that lie had no choice but to consent to the rejection of the measure or to assert, as he certainly had asserted, "the ayes have it." He, however, did not say, "the ayes have it," until the moment came when if he had abstained from saying so the motion must have been lost. The fact was, that the hon. Gentleman on his side who was to have renewed the debate had absented himself from his place, and some accident had prevented his returning to it in time. It was an accident, it was not; that the Gentlemen on his side of the House had pressed on a division.
 The Speaker  put it to the House, whether he did not give every opportunity in his power for the resumption of the debate? So far as depended on him, he was extremely desirous to assist the House. Whatever the inconvenience of protracted debates might be to him, he was not conscious of having allowed at any time mere
 1390
 The Speaker  gave his opinion against the amendment of the noble Lord.
 The Speaker  put that motion.
 The Speaker  said, the House having gone through the Orders of the Day, the hon. Member for Worcester had risen for the purpose of moving the first of the motions, which was, that Sir Eardley
 1388
 The Speaker : This is neither a motion nor a notice of motion. It is an amendment, and therefore can be regularly put.
 The Speaker  rose, and having read the motion, put the question. There was a call of Aye from the opposition Members, and a call of No, from the ministerial side of the House. The Speaker said, I think the Noes have it. Some Members on the Opposition benches exclaimed "the Ayes have it."
 Mr. Bernal  admitted, that nothing could
 1398 Laughter.
 Mr. Milnes  observed, that the question before the House was this, that if her Majesty's Ministers, and especially the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, felt that the vote which had been come to was sufficient to justify him and them, then they on the Opposition side must bring the course pursued by her Majesty's Ministers to a more definite judgment.
 Sir R. Inglis  hoped, that his noble Friend, the Member for Hertford, would consent to withdraw his amendment. It was true that the House had been taken by surprise, and that its decision would not be so satisfactory as if it had been taken after the discussion had come to a regular termination. He felt, however, so strongly the arguments of his hon. Friend, the Member for Rochester, and also the
 1400
 Sir R. Peel  remarked, that though the noble Lord was burning with anxiety to have a discussion, yet he did not agree to the proposition which had been made: and although the noble Lord agreed that the question could not remain as it was, yet he considered, for the advantage of the public service, it could not be proceeded with on Friday or on Monday, and then, on the other hand, the supporters of the Government generally were prepared to cast on his side of the House the imputation of bad faith if it were proceeded with that night. On the whole, then, he believed, where there was the chance of incurring the evil of such an imputation, and, above all, considering that in the contention of parties, good faith ought, above all things, to be preserved, then, he said, if hon. Gentlemen considered that it would be inconsistent with good faith to go on that night, and as they had it from the noble Lord that they must proceed with the slavery question to-morrow, his opinion was, that the debate ought not to be proceeded with that night, and he saw no alternative before them but a long interval occurring before the question could be decided. It appeared to him, then, that upon the whole the wisest course to be pursued was, to withdraw the amendment, and that a regular notice should be given for a future day.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that if there had been surprise on the present occasion, he had been as much taken by surprise as any Gentleman in the House. He believed that the general impression on both sides of the House was, that the sudden termination of the debate was accidental; and that there was no intention in any quarter to take an unfair advantage by an unexpected division. He had come down to the House in expectation of a long debate; for an hon. Gentleman then present had called upon him at two o'clock, and told him that it was his intention to commence the debate of the evening at five, and he had come down in consequence at half-past five; when, to his great astonishment, he was informed that a division had taken place, and that the House had adjourned. He thought that, as the division which had taken place had not been expected at that hour by either side of the House, the best course for all parties to adopt was, to come to some amicable understanding on the subject. The question, it was quite evident, could not remain in its present position. He thought that the noble Lord at the head of her Majesty's Government, and more especially his noble Friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, would insist upon the House coming to a more definite decision upon this question than could be inferred from a chance division upon an incomplete discussion. If the noble Lord would consent to such an arrangement, the House might proceed at once to take the discussion that night; but if the noble Lord objected to it, another course must be adopted—for instance, the noble Lord might permit the debate to be continued on Friday, of Monday, or upon some other early day, that might be most convenient. For his own part, he was ready to adopt either alternative, though he would certainly prefer proceeding with the discussion at once, as in all probability it would be finished that night. If, how-
 1392 de novo
 Sir R. Peel  was not to be deterred by the threats of the hon. Member for Lambeth from seeking to renew the discussion, which had come to such an unexpected termination. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Liskeard,
 1397
 Lord Mahon  would persist in his amendment. He went along with the noble Lord in thinking that this was a question of great practical importance to Spain, to England, and to Europe, and he would state to the House the course which he in consequence intended to pursue. He would move an amendment identical in substance with the motion of the noble Lord, but different in its mode of expression. He then moved, that "An humble Address be presented to her Majesty, expressing to her Majesty the opinion of this House that the employment of her Majesty's subjects in the service of her Catholic Majesty, in consequence of the suspension by order in council of the provisions of the Foreign Enlistment Act, has not been of advantage either to the interests of this country or to those of Spain," and so on to the end of Lord Eliot's motion.
 Lord Mahon  wished, with the permission of the House, and he hoped, with the concurrence of the noble Lord, to give the House an opportunity, and those hon. Gentlemen who had not yet come down to it, of deciding more fully that question on which they had divided. He put it to the House, whether it were not desirable, on a question of this importance, that there should not be a decision taken by surprise. If, then, it were not inconsistent with the rules of the House, he would move, as an amendment on the question, that the House do now adjourn, the identical motion which was previously moved by his noble Friend.
 Lord Mahon  said: Then with the permission of the House, he would make a slight alteration in the motion. He and his hon. Friends had been taken by surprise.
 Lord Mahon  was addressing the House, I rise, he said, for the purpose of putting it to the noble Lord opposite, whether the late division has not been the result of a misunderstanding on both sides of the House. I think it could not have been the intention of either party to come to a division at this period of the evening, before any hon. Gentleman had spoken; and not doubting but that both parties desire to act fairly, I would ask the noble Lord what course it would be better to adopt under the circumstances.
 Lord Mahon : I would ask the House whether it be not competent to any Member—whether it would be inconsistent with the rules of the House—to introduce the motion again with a verbal alteration. The circumstances of the present case are very peculiar. It is evident hon. Gentlemen have been taken by surprise. The motion was a very important one; it involved the foreign policy of the Government, and particularly the conduct of the noble Lord as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Now, that noble Lord was not in his place when the division occurred; and inasmuch as it is not usual to attack any Gentleman in his absence, I think it would not be showing the proper courtesy to the noble Lord to allow this question to be finally disposed of by such a decision as the House had come to.
 Lord Stanley  had a petition to present of a different character from the majority of those which had been presented. The petitioners, he was sure, would be Considered entitled to the utmost attention. The petition was very numerously signed by persons who had a greater amount of property involved in what was the subject matter of consideration of that night than any other class of persons in the United Kingdom. The petition was from West-India planters and merchants, and they came before that House entreating the House not to violate the national compact into which the Legislature had entered a short period ago, and not to abridge the remaining period of apprenticeship. They stated, that the abridgment would be a very great and serious injury to them, and that many other legislative enactments should precede entire emancipation. There were rules required for the suppression of vagrancy, for the embodiment of militia, for the regulation of the elective franchise, for juries, and for making rules between masters and servants. But there was one point to which he wished to call the attention of Parliament, supposing the measure of the hon. Baronet was carried, and that was, the introduction of a sound currency instead of that which now existed. He was anxious to call the attention of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to this point, and had given him notice of it two days ago, knowing that his right hon. Friend would be the last person to undervalue the importance of the subject. The currency throughout the West-India colonies was in anything but a satisfactory state.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  rose to order. Upon a petition the noble Lord could not enter into a discussion.
 Lord Stanley , up to that moment, had confined himself to the petition. But, even if he did exceed the rule in any degree, he should have thought that some consideration ought to be given to a petition from those whose all, or the greater part of whose property, was involved. He was stating the subject of the petition to which
 41
 Lord Stanley  said, it never could be the rule to preclude a Member from stating the contents of a petition, or reading it. The petitioners stated, that the currency did not rest upon a sound basis, and that, under existing circumstances, it was difficult to keep the colony in an amount of coin sufficient for the wants of the population. The slaves had been supplied with clothing and various articles of necessity by their masters; but when they were to be paid for their labour a much greater amount of coin would be required. It was necessary, then, to establish in the colonies a sound monetary system. He asked, then, what was the intention of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to a new coinage? He concluded by presenting a petition against the abolition of apprenticeship.
 Sir G. Strickland  rose and said, Sir, in rising to propose a resolution, "That this House is of opinion that apprenticeship in the British colonies, as established by the act of abolition, passed in the year 1833, should cease and determine on the 1st of August in the present year," I must, in the first place, express my regret that illness has caused the absence of the hon. Baronet, the Member for Warwickshire, who would have done so much more ample justice to this subject. I likewise feel that I come forward this evening under some disadvantage, as I have given a very laborious and patient attention for many
 42 "That, subject to the obligations imposed by this Act, all persons in slavery throughout the British colonies shall on the 1st of August, 1833, become, and be to all intents and purposes, free and discharged of and from all manner of slavery, and shall be absolutely and for ever manumitted, and that slavery shall be, and is hereby utterly and for ever, abolished and declared unlawful throughout the British colonies and possessions abroad." 43 44 "I have felt from the first how great an object it was, to carry this measure with as much unanimity as possible, but if it really do come to a question, whether I must vote for the shorter or the longer period, I shall feel obliged in consistency to vote for the shorter period. Though for years the emancipation of the slaves has been called for, the people have never expected that it was to be accompanied by remuneration to the planter. I admit, that the arguments of the hon. Member for Leeds are difficult to be answered in favour of compensation. But if it were not trespassing too long upon the attention of the House at this time of the night, I think I should be able to show, that so large a sum as twenty millions ought not to be paid; and as to the length of the apprenticeship, there cannot be a doubt that the voice of the people is in favour of the shortest possible period." 45 "My right hon. Friend (alluding to the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, then Mr. Stanley, and Secretary for the Colonies) has said, that he proposes to place the negroes almost in a state of freedom—to give them (I think was his expression) all the essentials of freedom. Could I be persuaded, that such would be the effect of the measure he has recommended, I should be spared the pain of opposing it. But the House must not allow itself to be imposed upon by words. Slavery does not consist in a name." "Sir, I believe it is a truth universally recognized, that men can only be taught industry by having the fruits of their industry secured to them——by being made to know, that if they will consent to labour, the reward of their toil shall not be taken from them by another." "I believe, the plan of apprenticeship will be as injurious to the planters as to the slaves." "I know, sir, that we cannot trust the colonial assemblies to legislate. Whatever might be the nominal effect of the laws they might pass, in reality, they would amount to nothing less than the maintenance of slavery, as it now exists." "There is no intermediate state between freedom and slavery." * "I did not vote for the grant of 20,000,000 l l l * 46 47 48 "In reporting upon the results of this extended inquiry, it has become the duty of the Commissioners to state, that the allegations of James Williams's narrative have received a few inconsiderable contradictions, whilst every material fact has been supported and corroborated by an almost unbroken chain of convincing testimony; that the abolition law has not been properly administered in some
 49 "The Abolition Act requires that 'good and ample provision' shall be made for the apprentices by their employers. But it appears, that in Tortola, the allowance of farinaceous food is less than one half the prison allowance of Jamaica, under the slave law in corn, and one-fifth in flour. In Nevi, St. Christopher's, and Dominica, it is little more than one half in either corn or flour. In Barbadoes, it is little more than two-thirds of corn. From such cause in British Guiana, a crown colony, the apprentices are said to be in a state approaching to starvation." 50 "On the top of the treadmill were a number of negroes, to secure the arms of those who were too weak to hold on by the rails. The women were on it. The brutal driver was flogging them with as much severity as he had previously flogged the men. Be cut them wherever he listed, and as often as he pleased. We were dreadfully shocked. On the mill was a mulatto woman extremely exhausted. The driver flogged her repeatedly, and she as often made the attempt to tread the mill; but nature was worn out; she was literally suspended by the bend of the elbow of one arm, a negro holding down the wrist, and her poor legs knocking against the revolving steps of the mill till the blood marked them. She hung groaning. When the negro released her arm, she fell on the floor."
 Sir G. Strickland : I have no doubt, the
 51 The Morning Chronicle
 Lord Sligo , whose well known benevolence and humanity give the greatest weight to his opinion on this subject, writing with a full sense of the inadequacy of the existing law to enable the Government to check abuses in particular districts and individual cases, considered that the remedy would be, not the abolition by Parliament of the apprenticeship system, but the placing greater powers in the hands of the Executive Government. "In making to your Lordship my usual report by each packet, on the general state of the island, the last which, in all probability, it will be my duty to make to you in the character of governor of this colony, it is my pride and satisfaction to be able to say, that I leave the administration of affairs in the hands of my successor in as easy a state as can be well imagined." "In acknowledging the honour of your Lordship's despatch, No. 30, dated the 30th December, 1836, referring to various despatches of Lord Sligo, reporting acts of oppression towards the apprenticed labourers, and instances of their ill-treatment in houses of correction, I have to express my regret that I have not been able to reply to it earlier; but it was referred to the Attorney-General, and has laid over a considerable time." "I would not on any account give your
 75 "On well-regulated estates, those usages and indulgences have never been withdrawn, and the system is working satisfactorily: but it is where managers or overseers, having only a temporary interest in the properties, disregard the present welfare of the labourers, and the future benefit of proprietors, that discontents and complaints are created, alike injurious to the working classes and to the character of the community." "I believe all parties would be glad to abandon the system to morrow for further compensation. When asked my opinion on that subject, I have deprecated its absurdity, because I felt convinced no Ministry could go to Parliament for an additional grant towards negro freedom; nor would it, in my opinion, be desirable, if we could get the local abolition law revised and improved. As it stands, I denounce it the worst law of all the late slave colonies." 76 "With partial exceptions, the conduct of the apprentices has continued to be favourable. They are gradually performing their labour with more apparent willingness and good humour. "Though the feeling between them and their masters is not universally cordial, there is scarcely any instance in which a decidedly bad feeling exists, and on some few properties the harmony and mutual confidence are extremely gratifying. It is much easier to discern the causes of the confidence than of its opposite "Task-work has not been resorted to here to any great extent; I am not aware, however, of any prevailing objection to it in the minds either of masters or people, but like every deviation from the beaten track, its fancied difficulties have been allowed to prevent any considerable attempt to introduce it. The steps at present in progress, under the auspices of his Excellency the Governor, will, I trust, issue in an extensive application of this most desirable mode of carrying on the labour of the island. "The disposition to work for money wages is increasing. Some plantations which had been suffered to run almost into a wilderness before the commencement of the apprenticeship, by the diversion of the strength to other objects, as, for instance, the cultivation of ginger, have been nearly restored during the last few months, solely by labour obtained from apprentices in their own time, It has
 77 s. d. s. d. "With regard to the free children, I discover nothing within the range of my observation that would lead me to think that any considerable number of them were suffering from neglect. If they have lost the care of the estate, which they have not every where done, the father, often by marriage or other means, has acquired new views of the parental obligation, and for the first time, with his wife and his children around him, has a feeling of home." "In taking a review of the interval that has elapsed since my last quarterly report, I am happy to have the opportunity of asserting that nothing has occurred to indicate any alteration in the general good conduct and industrious disposition of the apprentices of this district—a grateful fact, which furnishes me with no opportunity of original remark; I therefore comprise everything that can be said on the treatment and conduct of apprentice, (master and apprentice,) when I observe that each party are performing their relative duties as well as can be reasonably expected from men in their peculiarly anomalous situation." "But though I have the greatest confidence in the general industry and improved condition of the peasantry after August, 1840, I do not think from the present disproportioned number of the population, as compared with the quantity of land in cultivation, and its productiveness, that it will he possible to continue the manufacture of sugar to the same extent as at present: the feelings and dispositions of the unapprenticed labourers, being taken as indicative of the disposition of the peasantry at that period, is, I think, conclusive testimony on that point. The great number of negroes who will then be proprietors of small freeholds Will render, probably, the major portion of those at present on sugar estates independent of daily hire; while the remainder who will be so dependent, will be exposed to
 78
 Mr. Higgins , another special magistrate, says:—
 "I am of opinion there cannot now be a doubt in the minds of even the most determined opposers of the apprenticeship system, that it does work and will work well to the end of the six years; whether after that period the labourers will work on the several estates mainly depends, I think, on the planters themselves, and on the mode in which they may conduct themselves to their apprentices during the term of probation. In that respect, I am happy in being able to state that, a great change for the better has taken place during the last few months. Anger and coercion have had their day. But a feeling of self-interest is now beginning to introduce milder and more conciliatory measures; and the proprietors and managers generally are showing a more ready disposition to meet the new system in a liberal and honourable manner."
 Mr. Carnaby  says:—
 "I have much pleasure in reporting that the apprentices in my district are well-disposed, and that their conduct for the last quarter has been both quiet and orderly; they perform their work cheerfully, and I have lately perceived a better feeling existing between the managers and the general body of the apprentices; they are treated humanely by the great majority of those placed over them. "The working hours are nine daily, by which the apprentices have it in their power to devote every Friday afternoon and Saturday to the cultivation of their grounds, or to labour for hire. When the length of the day permits, they have one hour for breakfast and two for dinner; but when the day shortens, it is found necessary to curtail those hours a little, to give the estate the legal labour, and preserve to the apprentices the Friday afternoon. "Voluntary task-work is becoming more general, and in the digging of cane-holes and cleaning the cane-pieces, answers well. "I have, within the last few months observed an improved disposition on the part of the apprentices to labour in their own time for hire, for which they receive from 2 s. d. s. d. "The greater number of attornies and
 79 "Great efforts are making by every class in the island to extend church and school accommodation with considerable success, and attendance at church daily increases. As regards the free children, they seem to remain a burden on their parents, who, where localities permit, place them at the schools now daily opening. Though private munificence and benevolence have been great, there is still a wide field for national aid in those respects, the attendance at church, in this quarter particularly, being more than equal to the existing accommodation." "It is by no means my intention to imply that, even on estates where the reins of discipline are tightest drawn, the negro is labouring under actual oppression and cruelty; my observations are limited to the shortsighted perverse, and unconciliatory system, but within the pale of the law, pursued by some, which, generating and resentment in the breast of the apprentice, will too surely be visited, to his cost, on the proprietor in the sequel." "Formerly, (he says) all but enormous and atrocious offences were visited by domestic discipline, and in multifold instances, even these were never punished at all; the proprietor too often regarding with indifference aggression against the public, where he himself was not an immediate sufferer. He rarely, therefore, gave up to justice a delinquent slave, unless in cases which subjected him either to the penalty of transportation or that of death; in both which instances he was reimbursed by law for his loss. He often esteemed it his interest to shield a minor offender, by whose punishment, by imprisonment or otherwise, he was liable to be, in any shape, himself damnified. Circumstances are now  toto cœlo 80
 Mr. Higgins , in a report of a subsequent date, says:—
 "Whilst I am able thus to bear testimony to the general good conduct of the negroes, I have much satisfaction, also, in having it in my power to commend the proprietors and managers generally, for conducting themselves towards their apprentices in a kinder and more conciliatory manner. Some of the subordinate planters, it is true, still cling to the old system, and cannot divest themselves of their former prejudices towards the negroes; they at present, however, I am happy to say, compose but a small section of the general body of the planters of this district."
 Mr. Lyon , in March, 1837, makes the following report:—
 "From the commencement of the apprenticeship I have been anxiously and unremittingly watching the development and the beneficial progress of freedom. In superintending the administration of the Abolition Law in this district, during a period of more than two years and-a-half, I have had the gratification in each quarter to report favourably of the conduct of the apprentices, to speak well of the condition of the estates, and, in announcing that crime had decreased, to represent that the decorum of social life was daily being better understood and observed by the labouring population, and that the example of those who were released by purchase from their apprenticeship was likely to have a beneficial influence upon the habits and feelings of the remaining bond-servants. "On this, the last opportunity afforded me of reporting the state of this district, and the condition of the peasantry (my services being transferred by his Excellency's command to a distant part of the island), I am happy that am enabled to repeat what on so many occasions I have had the pleasing satisfaction of detailing by a reference to facts; that the conduct of the apprentices and the condition of the plantations continue satisfactory, the number of offences against the provisions of the Abolition Act having diminished to a degree hardly possible to admit of further reduction. The few cases that do occur are chiefly of the most trifling description, and such as happen among agrarian labourers in the most favoured nation of the world. 81 "I confidently hope that the habits of industry and decorum, which have conduced to so favourable a state of things among the working classes of this district, founded as they are upon an increase of religious knowledge, are too firmly rooted to admit of the possibility of disorganization or rupture; and that they with whom, and for whom, I have so long and so anxiously laboured may live to enjoy, and by their conduct to promote, a happy and prosperous condition of society on the termination of the apprenticeship in 1840."
 Mr. Lyon , having recently been appointed to a new district, in which abuses were suspected to have existed, after detailing the circumstances which he found to require correction, and the means which he had taken for this purpose, adds,—
 "I have, I trust, succeeded in putting an end to the system of incarceration in cells and assault by constables, and yet I have not had a single complaint of indolence against a gang, and remarkably few complaints by managers against individuals; and I feel the most perfect confidence that, with the support I am sure to receive from the executive, I shall in a very short time be able to see the benevolent law for the abolition of slavery fairly, fully, and beneficially in operation, to the great increase of the mutual advantages of master and apprentices."
 Mr. Harris  says—
 "The good feeling and friendly understanding, which it has afforded me such pleasure on previous occasions to afford my testimony to and approval of, still reign predominant in the; and in any case where the stream thereof might happen to be obstructed, it could only be attributed to the attempt at exercising by the employer something of the despotic sway of olden times, including a harshness of tone and manner, and ungraciousness, which the emancipated bondsman or woman cannot be expected to endure as the affrighted and trembling slave would and must have done. The labouring populations, after a three years' enfranchisement from thraldom, know too well their rights and; they feel them-selves raised and elevated in the scale of existence; and what would once be accounted heinous offences, and punished with severity, can and should now only be considered as a respectful assertion of their rights. "As to the indulgences usually allowed during slavery, my observations and remarks hereon must be the same as those heretofore submitted; they are most usually given; but, as they are only indulgences, they are liable at any moment, and upon any occasion, to be wholly or partially withheld, and either temporarily or permanently. Upon the whole, I believe they are allowed, and if at any time withheld, not for any very considerable length of time."
 Mr. Daughtrey  again, in July, 1837, says,
 "Of the gradual improvement of the people under the present system, no doubt can exist. I know no intelligent person, with opportunities of forming an opinion upon the subject, and who has been long enough in the island to
 83 84 "Is there an increasing confidence among the people in the stability of the present course of things? He says, by the expression, present state of things,' does Mr. Hovey allude to the apprenticeship? If he do, it is clear that, being an intermediate state between slavery and freedom, a period simply of transition and preparation, it can in nowise be said to possess stability. If Mr. Hovey's meaning extend generally to the measure in progress, and to the great end to be attained by the elevation of a lage portion of the family of man from the most pitiable and degrading state of slavery recorded in the annals of history to the condition of freemen, there can be no doubt that the experiment has not only been attended with complete success already, but that its effects also will be lasting and stable." "Do they perform much extra labour for hire?—As regards the performance of extra work for hire, they consult their own convenience, as freemen should do. Some sell their time, and afford to their employer an adequate proportion of labour; others prefer using their extra hours in the cultivation of their provision grounds, and the sale of the produce in the market." "Is an increasing desire for knowledge and instruction apparent among them, and if so, in what way?—An increasing desire for knowledge and improvement is apparent among them; it manifests itself now in the general acceptance of the truths of Christianity, in the enlarged attendance on places of public worship, in the increasing attention to personal decency and comfort in their apparel and houses, and in the signally intelligent questions which they often put, on a variety of subjects, to those who have inclination or leisure to converse with them." "Has the amount of labour in the island diminished since; and if so, how does it?—I have not time sufficient at my disposal to follow this question through all the details which a complete view of the objects that it embraces would lead to; I shall simply observe, that the general amount of labour performed in the island has not diminished since 1834. The exports have necessarily declined with the disuse of the hideous and abominable system which drove the slave to the field before daylight, 'and kepi him there, with little intermission, until night supervening rendered the continuation of his task a matter of; a system which often kept the negro, when employed in the manufacture of sugar, on continuous labour for sit days and as many nights, during which time the only intervals he could devote to rest were snatched by stealth from the vigilant eye of an overseer, and liable to be rudely interrupted by the lash of his inhuman taskmaster; a sys-
 85 "Has the introduction of the new system had any perceptible effect on the enterprise and prosperity of the island, and especially upon the value of?—Again, as I observed in reply to No. 5, I have not time to go into a lengthened statistic detail, and must confine my remarks to facts that. Mr. Hovey's own experience will probably have made him acquainted with. The new system has had an effect on the enterprise and prosperity of the island, totally unanticipated by the most sanguine at its commencement. New towns have been founded in various parts of the country; and in the old, new houses are springing up on all sides. Institutions, unthought of in the days of slavery, are established for agricultural and scientific purposes. Land daily increases in value, and the labour of apprentices, considered as property, has brought, and is bringing in, for the six years of the apprenticeship, a sum equal to three times the whole life value of the slave, as appraised by commissioned valuators in 1834." 86 87 "The perpetration of rape, which the grand jury declared to have become frequent in a country in which formerly it was of rare occurrence, should be deemed not the evidence of increasing crime, but of a sense of increased decency and moral propriety in the peasantry, who claim the protection of the law against this outrage." "It is presuming too much on the illusion of prejudice to suppose it can be believed, in a state of society in which, till lately, the caprice of a master, or the wanton depravity of a plantation underling, could expose the nakedness of a female, and subject her to be lacerated by the whip of a driver, that the chaster virtues could have been much practised or much regarded. The wise dispensation of Providence, which assigns ignorance to brute creatures, as a mitigation of their condition, has made also the extinction of the acuter moral feelings, and of the capacities of thought, intelligence, and reflection, a means of reconciling men to the degradation of slavery; the low desires and affections of such a state could never have ranked chastity as an important virtue, or, if it did, the defenceless condition which made the happiness and usefulness of one class of our fellow-creatures administer to the arbitrary self-will of another, presented too many inducements to the weaker portion
 88 89 90 91 92 "The children are allowed provisions, nurses, and medical attendance." 93 "The children are allowed the same food, &c., as when in a state of slavery?" "The children are fed and allowed the same advantages as when in a state of slavery." "On all estates the children are allowed food, nurses, and medical attendance." "The children are fed gratuitously on all the estates, have nurses and medical attendance." "The children receive the same treatment as when in a state of slavery." "No variation has taken place since last report." The terms of that report being, "They are fed, have medical attendance and nurses while the mothers are at work." On plantations "Best," "Vreed-en-hoop," and Tuchen de Vrienden," "no food is allowed; but on all the other estates they receive the same allowance as before 1st August, 1834." "The children are treated as formerly." "The children are fed and treated in the same manner as when they were in a state of slavery." "The free children upon all the estates are most liberally provided for." "Generally the same as before the 1st August, 1834." "The children are treated in the same manner as when in a state of slavery." "On most of the estates the children are fed as before the apprenticeship; on all they receive medical attendance." 94 "The sixth clause distinctly authorizes the holding of markets on the Sunday, although they are to be closed at half past nine in the morning. It is impossible that His Majesty should confirm an enactment, sanctioning a practice which, even during the continuance of Slavery, had been abolished and prohibited." "In obedience to your Lordship's instructions, the sixth clause, or enactment, having reference to Sunday morning markets, and directing such markets to be closed at half past nine, A. M., will also be expunged from the new ordinance." "I have to lay before your Lordship an ordinance for the better observation of the sabbath, in which those enactments of the former ordinance, which were disapproved of by his Majesty, as communicated to me in your Lordship's despatch of the 29th October No. 161, have been omitted." 95 96 97 "Your Committee have thus commented upon the principal points which have been brought before their notice; and upon a general review of the evidence which they have received, they conceive that they are warranted in expressing a belief, that the system of apprenticeship in Jamaica is working in a manner not unfavourable to the momentous change from slavery to freedom which is now going on there. They perceive, undoubtedly, many traces of those evils which are scarcely separable from a state of society confessedly defective and anomalous, and which can only he defended as one of preparation and transition. But, on the other hand, they see much reason to look forward with a confident hope to the result of this great experiment. In the evidence which they have received, they find abundant proof of the general good conduct of the apprentices, and of their willingness to work for wages whenever they are fairly and considerately treated by their employers. It is, indeed, fully proved, that the labour thus voluntarily performed by the negro is more effective than that which was obtained from him while in a state of slavery, or which is now given to his employer during the period for which he is compelled to work as an
 98 99 "Having thus stated my sense of the wrongs of the negroes, I proceed to consider what steps their friends should take. I am not convinced of the propriety of making a grand effort for procuring the abolition of the apprenticeship in 1838. It seems to me an improbability of the highest order that we should succeed in such an attempt. What is our present situation? A contract sanctioned by the Legislature exists."
 Mr. Buxton  admits the contract in the most explicit terms. Mr. Buxton, who opposed the apprenticeship from the beginning, who moved the instruction to the Committee on the Bill in 1833, the object of which was to exclude the apprenticeship from forming any portion of the compensation contracted to be given to the proprietors, here distinctly admits the existence of the contract finally sanctioned by the Legislature, although against his own opinion, being far too honest to have recourse to any subterfuge by which the obligation of that contract could be denied. He says,
 "A contract, sanctioned by the Legislature, exists. We maintain that its conditions have been violated, and that, therefore, it ought to cease. "Upon this matter of fact we are at issue with the West Indians; and it can hardly be expected that Parliament will pronounce its verdict until our evidence has been stated in detail, and the apprentice-holders have been heard in reply. I observe that some of our excellent and zealous friends have expressed an invincible aversion to Parliamentary Committees." These gentlemen actually object to any investigation of the facts on which their own opinions have been formed. They have, as Mr. Buxton says, an invincible aversion to Parliamentary Committees, because they are there subjected to cross-examination; because their allegations are there capable of being sifted and scrutinized; and because there, evidence may be adduced to rebut some of those allegations, and a full and comprehensive view of the whole case may be presented. But, Mr. Buxton continues, "I cannot suppose that Parliament will decide so grave a question, and dissolve an existing contract of its own making, without inquiry; and an inquiry in this case implies a Parliamentary
 100 "As our case will rest on specific grievances, occurring in a vast multitude of instances, this in itself will open the doors to an indefinite and endless accumulation of evidence; in short, we shall be at the mercy of the planters, and they will have it in their power to protract the inquiry as long as they please. Let us suppose, however, that their witnesses being at hand, at the commencement of the Session of 1839, their examination shall be completed by the close of that Session. In 1840, the whole case comes before Parliament, an Act passes, and with all expedition it may reach Mauritius by the day already fixed by law for the termination of the apprenticeship. "You will not fail to perceive, that hitherto I have contemplated a conjunction of the most favourable circumstances. I have not mentioned the House of Lords, though no Act abolishing the apprenticeship will be allowed to pass till a Committee of that House also has investigated the evidence; and this will occupy at least as much time, and be attended with at least as much difficulty, as the inquiry in the Commons. "I have supposed that you will get Committees to investigate the question, Whether the contract has not been virtually dissolved by the misconduct of the planters? That I am persuaded you will never do. I am utterly deceived, if you will find 100 men in either House who will vote even for inquiring whether the apprenticeship ought to be abolished. With these views I venture to pronouce our failure to be certain, if we embark in the attempt to secure entire freedom to the negroes in 1838. "The effect of such a defeat cannot but be injurious to our cause, and that in many ways. Our strength is in the support which the public is prepared to give us; without this we are nothing; and our responsibility will be great if we squander, in a fruitless attempt, that force which might be successfully employed in important operations. There are attainable points almost as vital, and quite as pressing, as the abolition of the apprenticeship in 1838." 101 ex-parte 102 "The Anti-slavery party, who find, that the law has been much abused, and that the humane intentions of the original promoters of this most benevolent measure have been defeated, cry out loudly for an immediate abolition of the apprenticeship. But it appears doubtful, if such a measure would, in the end, be advantageous to the negro. The success of immediate and total abolition in Antigua, has been quoted as an argument in its favour; but the cases are not parallel. Jamaica has thousands of acres of waste and unclaimed land, and every acre which is not actually kept in tillage, is soon covered with bush, impenetrable to all except the negroes. Into these places, where food can be procured at the least possible expenditure of labour; where, as has been proved before the House of Lords, a man
 103 104 105 106 107 108 *
 Sir G. Strickland : Well, I merely wished to refer to those statements for the purpose of showing, that after repeated and earnest solicitations, the Local Assemblies could not be induced to make those regulations which were just. The noble Lord also admitted, that scenes still occurred, which were horrible and revolting, and entirely confirmed the narrative of James Williams. He moreover confessed, that in spite of the law, females were flogged in a manner which reflected disgrace on the Legislature. But I understand, that the Bill brought forward by the noble Lord, is to be moved this evening as an amendment to my Motion. I feel bound, therefore, to allude by anticipation to that measure. In the first place, I take it to be a full admission of the grievances of the slaves. What else does it mean? I will not quote authorities to sustain what I say, because such a course seems to be displeasing; but, if I were to do so, I could prove, that this Bill has been introduced to protect the apprentices from the effects of a conspiracy carried on against them. It is to afford protection to Magistrates, or rather to make another enactment, to prevent the flogging of females. Why, Sir, if it were possible to pass fifty laws, one after another, is it likely, that words could be found, prohibiting more strenuously and clearly, the evils which are now intended to be put down, than those contained in the Imperial Act. This is legislating, as it were, on legislation in a manner which, I was going to say, might be called impotent; but which, I am quite certain, can produce no possible good. But there is another point of view, in which this Bill is to be considered. It is to enable the Governor, in case the apprentices are used cruelly, to give them immediate freedom. Why, then, when I hear of my motion being an infraction of the contract, am I not entitled to say, that these enlarged powers to be given under the Bill to the magistrates are equally de-
 52 53 "The 1st of August was devoted in many parts of the island to devotional exercises. In the sectarian chapels the service was performed several times in the course of the day; in fact, as often as a fresh succession of auditors presented themselves. It has been generally remarked, that hardly a drunken man was to be seen in the streets on that day; the Saturday was divided between business and pleasure; they were fully aware, that the next Sunday's market would be abolished. At night in some of the towns there were fancy balls, in which the authorities of the island, past and present, were represented. On Sunday the places of worship were again unusually crowded, and the day passed over in the most orderly and quiet manner. My reports from all parts of the island, except St. Ann's alone, state, that on Monday the apprentices turned out to their work with even more than usual readiness, in some places with alacrity, and all with good humour"  "Strange that it should be said, that the free blacks are predisposed to idleness, when they have driven the free whites from some occupations in our own island of Barbadoes; for instance, as carpenters and masons. The lower class of the white population are in the greatest destitution and distress. The number of white persons receiving relief is far greater than the number of persons of colour in the same situation. Indeed, the poor blacks contribute towards the relief of the poor whites, while the poor blacks maintain entirely those of their own colour who are poor." 54 "We learn with the profoundest interest, that the Government is determined to put an end to slavery, because it is contrary to the fundamental principles of all society, and useful neither to the master nor to the slave. When there shall be no more slaves it will no longer be necessary to transport a great military force at an enormous expense. The emancipated slaves, having become soldiers and citizens, will be interested in maintaining the public order, and in defending the soil which gave them birth." 55
 Mr. Grant , in April 1837, says,—
 "It affords me much pleasure to have to state, for the information of his excellency the governor, that, since my last quarterly report, the apprentices generally in this extensive district have conducted themselves with very great propriety, paying strict attention to their duty, and respectful and obedient to persons in authority over them in almost every instance where persons, by conciliatory and kind acts, show themselves deserving of, and entitled to, respect and obedience. "There is in general a good feeling between the apprentices and their employers. To an intelligent manager it is very evident that, on the cultivation of a good feeling between himself and his apprentices, altogether depends the success of his endeavours for the benefit of the property under his charge; yet there are men who imagine that nothing can be done but by coercion, who watch every action of an apprentice in the endeavour to find something wrong, and for this have him or her (if possible) punished. The exceptions, however, to a general good feeling between both parties in my district are, I am glad to say, very very few; in those few instances, however, where a bad feeling does exist, I have no hesitation in attributing its cause to the irritability of the managers, in whose minds no thought of conciliation ever enters. The apprentices generally perform their work willingly, and well; they know that they have a duty to perform, and, far from evincing any desire to elude that duty, they seem to perform it with pleasure." "The general conduct of the apprentices in my district, since my last general quarterly report, has been peaceable and industrious; they perform their labour well and willingly; and to these causes I attribute the good feeling which almost universally subsists between them and their owners. The spirit and disposition of both toward each other is generally of a more amicable description than I have observed since I came to the island; and a desire to encourage mutual forbearance and confidence seems to spread more and more every day. Complaints against employers are very few; whilst, on the other side, the charges now
 82
 The Speaker  who said, that the hon. Baronet was out of order in making quotations from the source which he had mentioned.
 Mr. Pease , in seconding the motion, assured the House that it was with the greatest diffidence he rose on this occasion, being fully aware of the vast importance of the subject, and of the great, he might say awful, responsibility which attached to those who were about to make the great change which it was the object of this motion to accomplish. Not only did he now feel the onerous duty imposed on him, but he had a full sense of the difficulty when he was first applied to for tests of his conduct. At a meeting of his constituents in the course of the past year, when their feelings and views were expressed in language not to be misunderstood, he stated unequivocally and honestly that he had the most serious doubts as to the policy pointed out; and also how far he could, in his situation as representative, stand up and propose a modification or abolition of an Act passed only a few years before. He trusted to the indulgence of the House whilst he endeavoured to state feebly, but as well as he could, the grounds on which he came to the conclusion that he could act that part from an honest wish to vindicate the national character, and from a Christian desire that the country to which he belonged should be no longer stigmatised with a system which reflected dishonour on the empire. Now he must, in the first place, disclaim the slightest degree of hostility to those who conducted the affairs of this vast empire, as well as any participation in the language which was held elsewhere, partly in his presence, but more particularly in his absence. He felt bound, too, to express his regret that the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire was not present, as he should have to make some reflections on his conduct, to which, though not impugning either his head or heart, he should wish to give him an opportunity of replying. After having waded through this large volume of evidence with all the industry which be could, he confessed he found him-
 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 l. l. 64 65 l. l s. l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in answer to the question put by his noble Friend, which he admitted was one of very great importance, but not so immediately connected with the subject matter of the debate as was supposed by the petitioners, had to say this, that the subject to which the noble Lord alluded more particularly was under the consideration of Government at the present moment. He was quite sure, that his noble Friend and the House, must be aware, that a subject which particularly embraced the introduction of a new standard of value was not one that could be lightly disposed of.
 Mr. Gladstone : From what is the hon. Baronet quoting? 
 Mr. Gillon  rose to order. At that moment the noble Lord had no right to enter into the state of the currency.
 Sir George Grey : Sir, I feel that if any Member of this House is entitled to ask for its indulgence oil rising to address it,
 66 67 "That they shall not, for the sake of the pecuniary interests of the masters, impose any restraint or obligation on the negro which shall not be necessary for his own welfare and for the general peace and order of society, and that they shall limit the duration of any temporary restrictions which may be imposed on the freedom of the Negroes to the shortest period which may be necessary to establish, on just principles, the system of free labour for adequate wages." 68 "I distinctly stated, when I introduced the measure (and I do not shrink from avowing it now), that I consider the period of apprenticeship to be part of the compensation to be paid to the proprietor. At the same time, I am ready to state distinctly (and do not let me be misunderstood upon the point) I am ready to admit, to the fullest extent, that, when hon. Gentlemen in this House assented to the principle of apprenticeship, they did not thereby bind themselves to the term or period for which that apprenticeship should endure." "The ground upon which the Government felt it necessary to proceed, with respect to the compensation, was a ground composed of two separate calculations; the one being a calculation of the amount proper to be paid down now, for the immediate remission of one-fourth of the labour of the negro, the other, a calculation of the sum which ought to be paid for the total remission of the whole of the labour of the negro at the end of twelve years. The sum thus to be paid, as compensation to the colonists, has been taken, first, with reference to the estimated value of the slave at the present time; and secondly, with reference to the interest which the amount of that value, in money, might bear for twelve years." "After the manner in which the hon. Gentleman has mixed up the two questions of compensation and apprenticeship, I am bound to show how, in the calculation upon which we have proceeded, the period of apprenticeship is to form part of the compensation to the master." "These are the strict grounds upon which the calculation has been made of the sum which ought to be paid to the master, now, for his certain present and his certain prospective loss; and the hon. Gentleman will not fail to see how very materially the amount of the period of the apprenticeship enters into all the calculations with regard to the value of what we are taking from the master." 69 "The House having decided that the apprenticeship shall terminate in seven years (or rather six years from the time of 'its commencement), we cannot now leave it to the option of one of the parties to the contract, without giving the other any consideration, to put an end to the apprenticeship at an earlier period." 70 l. 71 72 73 bona fide "I have the honour to enclose herewith the usual quarterly reports of the Special Justices in original; the most striking feature contained in the majority of them is the increased kindness of the managers to the apprentices; they have, in fact, found from experience that the most advantageous manner of managing them is by conciliation; while, however, this is distinctly stated in several cases, I am sorry to say that it is not universal. I know several attornies who continue their old system of exacting the pound of flesh, which I unhesitatingly pronounce to be the worst possible policy, and that many a proprietor in England will deeply suffer if they do not throw on one side all the nonsense which is so prevalent about the negro character not being known." "Now the desire to annoy the people has much ceased, though it exists in some places still. At first, however, I am quite certain that several of the lowest sort of bookkeepers and overseers have, out of spite to the Bill which set the slave free, determined to annoy them; this, of course, did much harm, and I the more rejoice at the report that this feeling seems to have rapidly passed away. These people have, in many instances, had all their former allowances of food and indulgences stopped from them, and for some unwillingness to labour, or some reason, whether deservedly or not so, their Saturdays are often taken from them; how, then, are they to exist but by theft? These cases, however, are not very general, and some bright examples of kind and good conduct are to be seen in all parts. I would particularly call your attention to the beneficial effects of the humane system of management exemplified in Mr. Baynes's report of the parish of St. John's, where Spring Vale, under the management of Mr. James Wright Turner, exhibits an absence of complaint which is quite extraordinary." "Your Lordship having been pleased in your despatches of the 24th April and of the
 74
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it was perfectly plain that the Queen's Government could not resist the demand for negro emancipation. The public sentiment had been pronounced so distinctly, the public feeling had been excited so strongly, that he did not think he was going too far when he said that the question must be conceded. The right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken would find the utter impossibility of carrying out his own principle in any other way than by supporting the resolution, adding, if he pleased, another by way of qualification, but not standing upon the bill proposed by the Government, in which case it would be utterly impossible for him to realise the principle he had himself laid down, or to satisfy his own reasoning on the subject. He had heard some complaints last night of the methods taken to inflame the public mind on this subject, and some persons bad treated with disregard the virtues and services of men in the cause of liberty which they did not deserve. The matter was distinctly understood by the people of England. They understood that they had paid 20,000,000 l. l, 172 l. l. l. l. l., 173 l., 174 quasi 175 "It was thought, that the friendly warning Of Parliament would be sufficient to induce the colonists to attend to its wishes. That warning, however, that admonitory voice has gone forth, and for years and years, been, I am sorry to say, unheeded and disregarded by all the colonial legislatures; they have allowed it to be lost upon them, they have done nothing to further and accomplish that great measure which the mother country, eleven years ago declared to be so just and so desired. But the voice of warning has been found to speak in vain—the tongue of honest and affectionate counsel has not been heeded. I will not deny, that if we look to the measures agreed upon by the Colonial Legislatures since the period I have alluded to, some improvement may be found in points affecting the physical condition of the slaves; but I do assert boldly, and without fear of contradiction, even from themselves, that nothing has been done of that nature, extent, or character, which may fairly be characterised as a step toward the ultimate extermination of the system. I therefore now call upon the House to take the matter at once into its own hands." * "He did not wish to speak in the language of complaint; but he must say, that it was impossible to negotiate with a body such as the West-India deputation, which attended to hear proposals with authority to object to them, but without authority to offer any suggestion, or propose any modification, in a plan which they rejected. He stated to the deputation distinctly, that it was the intention of Government to carry into effect safely, and if possible, with their concurrence, a complete extinction of slavery, and that such extinction must form the basis of any plan on which Ministers would consent to act. The deputation declared they had no power or authority to propose any plan. Four of the number did, in their individual capacity, offer to his notice a plan, to which he should not have alluded, but that he found it had since been given to the public. The proposal was, that a grant should be made to the colonists of 44,000,000 l. * 176 l. * l. "There is a growing determination on the part of the people of this country, to put an end to slavery, which no one can deny or wisely despise; a determination the more absolute, and the less resistible, because founded in sincere religious feelings, and in a solemn conviction, that things, wrong in principle, cannot be good in practice I and that determination is expressed in a voice so potential, that no minister can venture to disregard it." * 177 l., l. l. l. 178 l. 179 "I have the honour to enclose herewith the usual quarterly reports of the special justices in original. The most striking feature contained in the majority of them, is the increased kindness of the managers to the apprentices; they have, in fact, found from experience, that the most advantageous manner of managing them is, by conciliation. While, however, this is distinctly stated in several cases, I am sorry to say, it is not universal. I know several attorneys who continue their old system of exacting the pound of flesh, which, I unhesitatingly pronounce to be the worst possible
 180 Stanley l. 181 "Your Lordship having beets pleased, in your despatches of the 24th of April, and of the 14th of June, to direct me to turn my attention to some enactments to remedy the deficiencies in the abolition law, for the purpose of preventing the perpetration of such cruelties as are therein alluded to, I have the honour to state, and I do so with much pain, that the necessity for such enactments becomes every day more and more apparent to me; and that the hope I entertained of the existence generally of ameliorated feelings, though justified in many instances, is not universal. I must, however, remark, that the prevalence of such a system, as I must consider to be objectionable, is in particular districts only; still they must be provided against; and though much blame has attached itself me, for having used on a former occasion the same language, I again say, advisedly, that the remedy must come from home." 182 183 184 185 186 l. 187 188 189 habeas corpus
 Mr. James  congratulated her Majesty's Government upon having so able a coadjutor as the Secretary for the Colonies, who had concluded the debate the preceding night on this most important and interesting subject. In the course of that able, eloquent, and forcible address, the hon. Member alluded to the pressure from without—the pressure from constituencies on their representatives; and he agreed with him that it had been unfairly exercised in many instances; but that did not apply as regarded himself, for he had only one letter from his constituents on the subject, and he believed the people of Cumberland took less interest in the question than any other part of the kingdom, for only four or five petitions had been presented on the subject. As he happened to possess an interest in the question, being the proprietor of an extensive estate in Jamaica, he trusted the House would extend its courtesy to him for a few minutes, as he was not in the habit of making long speeches and troubling them very often. He begged to tender his acknowledgments to the country for the donation of 4,000 l. l. l. 157 158
 Sir George Strickland  said: Mr. Speaker, I think that I shall best discharge my duty by not offering one word in reply.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that after thirty years consideration of the subject, he felt bound to enter his protest against the doctrine of his noble Friend who had just sat clown. In addressing to the House a few observations, he begged to advert to the line of argument which had been taken with respect to this question. A resolution had been moved that the apprenticeship system should cease in August, 1838. To that resolution the hon. Member for Devonport gave a negative; and justified his negative by a compact which he alleged to exist between the Parliament of Great Britain and the West India planters. It was true, that the hon. Member for Devon-port allowed that that compact might have been violated by the planters in a few trifling instances; such as flogging the negro women, diminishing the food of the slaves, and in other slight particulars rivetting their chains. But the hon. Member for Devonport maintained that such petty and insignificant matters as these ought not to weigh with the House; and that no remedy ought to be thought of but the bill which was in progress in the House. A right hon. and learned Gentleman on the other side of the House admitted that the contract entered into by the act of 1833, had been grossly violated by the planters. But his noble Friend
 209 210 211 212 "Their behaviour has been such as almost entirely to put it out of the power of the masters to find fault. The complaints made were very few, and nearly in every instance of the most trifling nature. Although the conduct of the apprentices has thus been everything that their best friends could desire, of the good feeling existing between them and their employers, I regret to say, I cannot report so
 213 214 215
 Lord J. Russell  said, he never rose to address the House under a deeper sense of responsibility than he felt on the present occasion. He passed by, as unnecessary for him to consider, the question whether it were wise and prudent to enact the stipulations of the Act for the Abolition of Slavery; but this he would say, that every feeling of solemn duty by which a legislator could be swayed—the endeavour to establish freedom where slavery was inherited, to replace the oppression of severe task-masters by the protection of a mild government, and, at the same time, a consciousness of the perils which must attend the attempt combined to influence the Parliament which passed it; and the measure was so far happy, that those who stood forward to denounce the sufferings of the negro—those who advocated the claims of the West-Indian proprietors—those who bore office in the Administration and those who opposed them—all concurred in accepting it as a settlement of that great question. The period when the last stage of this mighty revolution was to be consummated having been fixed at seven years after the expiration of that Act, it was now proposed to this Parliament to break through that Act—to break the ties of those relations which now subsisted between the negroes and their masters, totally against the declared opinions and wishes of one party, and totally, as he believed, against the expectations of another, and to assume to themselves, certainly without much preparation of debate, suddenly and abruptly to cut short the duration of the state of apprenticeship. In
 216 l 217 218 "I consider the continuance of the present system until the 1st of August, 1840, as identified with the future welfare of this magnificent province. It appears to me, that if in British Guiana we are allowed to continue as we are, there is every prospect of our being enabled to slide almost imperceptibly into a state of perfect freedom. Excepting in cases of theft, the degrading punishment of the lash is unknown. Females are not permitted to be sent to the treadmill. The advantages resulting from labour are becoming daily more understood and better appreciated by the apprentice. He is, moreover, fast acquiring a knowledge of the rights and duties which, as a freeman, he will hereafter have in the one case to enjoy, and in the other to perform. The proprietor, on his part, is daily preparing to meet the coming change. A kind and a good feeling between the employer and the labourer is everywhere rapidly gaining ground. It is no longer the master and the slave having opposite interests; but the husbandman, who cannot effectually till his ground without the willing aid and the extra work of his apprenticed labourers; and the apprenticed labourer, who looks to the husbandman for that money, in payment for his extra labour, which he requires to enable him to take care of his wife and family, and to provide himself and them with those articles of comfort and luxury to which they have become habituated. When things are going on so well as in British Guiana, it appears to me, that it would be little short of an act of folly to offer any interruption to the present system." 219 1. l. 220 221 222 223 224
 Sir E. Sugden  rose thus early, because he was not so anxious to take a part at a later time of the evening in the contentions which might run high on this subject as he was to explain the grounds on which he should vote on the present occasion. At the same time, it was with some regret, early as it was, that he did not find any of her Majesty's Ministers in their places. Considering the great importance of the point to be discussed, he should have supposed there might have been at least some one representative of the Government present. In common with most other gentlemen he had received a communication from his constituents, not pressing hardly on him, but requesting him with considerable zeal to support the petition he had presented for the immediate abolition of negro apprenticeship; he owed it, therefore, to them to state the grounds on
 159 "Whereas divers persons are holden in slavery within divers of his Majesty's colonies, and it is just and expedient that all such persons should be manumitted and set free, and that a reasonable compensation should be made to the persons hitherto entitled to the services of such slaves for the loss which they will incur by being deprived of their right to such services; and whereas it is also expedient that provision be made for promoting the industry and securing the good conduct of the persons so to be manumitted for a limited period after such their manumission; and whereas it is necessary that the laws now in force in the said several colonies should forthwith be adapted to the new state and relations of society therein which will follow upon such general manumission as aforesaid of the said slaves." 160 161 162 163 "Provided also, and be it further enacted, that it shall not be lawful for any such governor, council, and assembly, or other colonial legislature, or for his Majesty in Council, by any such act, ordinance, or order in Council, to authorize any person or persons entitled to the services of any such apprenticed labourer, or any other person or persons other than such justices of the peace holding such special commissions as aforesaid, to punish any such apprenticed labourer for any offence by him or her committed, or alleged to have been committed, by the whipping, beating, or imprisonment of his or her person, or by any other personal or other correction or punishment whatsoever, or by any addition to the hours of labour hereinbefore limited; nor to authorize any court, judge, or justice of the peace, to punish any such apprenticed labourer, being a female, for any offence by her committed, by whipping or beating her person." 164 165 166 167 168 169 170 171
 Mr. Plumptre  felt himself bound by the contract which had been entered into. It had been argued that the House ought to accede to this proposition, on the ground of justice, humanity, and religion. He was not satisfied that on any of these grounds they were called upon to accede to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet. Were they certain that they were consulting kindness and humanity in acceding to this motion? It had been argued that, because the negro had been punished severely in some cases, justice demanded you should give him general emancipation. Was this justice to the planter who had treated the negro with kindness? Neither on the ground of religion could he accede to this motion. If it were true that he should be committing an act of justice by acceding to such a proposition, he never could sanction the proposition which would lead him to do evil, that good might come. As to the negroes themselves he more than doubted that it would, be consulting their good, if we were to say to them, knowing how utterly unprepared they were for free labours, and to meet the temptations which they would be exposed in their sudden
 190
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  said, * * 225 226 
 
 Mr. T. F. Buxton, Mr. Oswald, 
 Sir G. Grey, Mr. Lushington, 
 Mr. O'Connell, Mr. Thornely, 
 Mr. W. Gladstone, Mr. A. Johnstone, 
 Mr. Baines, Lord Sandon, 
 Mr. Plumptre, * Sir J. Graham, 
 Mr. Labouchere, Lord Howick. 
 Mr. P. Stewart, "Under these circumstances, your Committee feel bound to express their conviction that nothing could be more unfortunate than any occurrence which had a tendency to unsettle the minds of either class, with regard to the fixed determination of the Imperial Parliament to preserve inviolate both parts of the solemn engagement by which the services of the apprenticed labourer were secured to his employer, for a definite period, and under specified restrictions." "Upon a general review of the evidence which they have received, they conceive that they are warranted in expressing a belief, that the system of apprenticeship in Jamaica is working in a manner not unfavourable to the momentous change from slavery to freedom which is now going on there." * 227 bona fide 228 229 * l. l. * Mr. Fryer.—"Why are we to pay anything?" Lord Stanley.—"The honourable gentleman asks me a very short and a very pithy question. 'Why are we to pay anything?' My answer is, because the principles of justice require that we should not take away a man's property without remunerating him for it." Extract from a dispatch of Lord Glenelg to the Marquess of Sligo, dated Downing-street, 31st March, 1836; and by the latter communicated to the House of Assembly of Jamaica on the 24th May. "The abolition of slavery, and the subordinate measures required to render it effectual, 230 l. present a course of events altogether peculiar and anomalous. "That great act was nothing less than a national compact, of which Parliament was at once the author and the guarantee. Binding the people of the United Kingdom to the payment of a grant of unequalled magnitude, it also bound the emancipated slaves to contribute compulsory labour for several successive years, while it imposed upon the Assemblies the Obligation of reconciling by proper laws the duties of the negro population, as apprenticed labourers, with their rights as free men. "On the part of the British treasury, as on that of the emancipated slaves, the agreement has been carried into complete execution. "It follows, Parliament is therefore at once entitled and bound to enforce by its power the performance of any part of the duty of the Assembly of Jamaica towards the apprenticed labourers which that body may hemselves have failed to fulfil." 231 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 232 l l. l. l., post obit 233 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., 234 l. l. l. l. l. l., 
 
 Year. Quantity, in Tons. Gazette Average Price per Cwt. Gross Proceeds 
 1st. 1814 £196,200 73 s. 4¼ d. £12,484,000 
 2d. 1816 £185,000 43 s. 6¾ d. £8,354,000 
 1817 190,400 49 8 8,850,000 
 1818 196,100 50 0 9,163,000 
 3)571,500 3)26,367,000 
 Average £190,500 £8,789,000 
 3d. 1832 £211,000 27 s. 8½ d. £5,855,000 
 1833 209,000 29 7½ 6,196,300 
 1834 214,000 29 5 6,209,500 
 3)634,000 3)18,351,800 
 211,300 £6,117,260 235 
 
 4th.1835 £200,000 33 s. 6 d. £6,700,000 
 1836 197, 000 40 10 8,055,000 
 1837 184,000 34 7½ 6,366,000 
 3)581,000 3)21,111,000 
 Average £193,660 £7,037,000 l l l. 
 
 1st. 1832 71,570 tons, at £27 15 per ton. 
 1833 62,850 29 13 — 
 1834 –62,810 29 8 — 
 3)197,230 3)86 16 
 Average—65,776 tons, at £28 18 
 Average gross price £.1,874,000 
 2d. 1835 57,430 tons, at £33 10 per ton. 
 1836 52,700 40 17 — 
 1837 44,200 34 12 — 
 3)154,330 3)108 19 
 Average 51,400 tons, at£36 6 
 Average gross price £1,865,880. 
 
 1832 7,160 tons. 1835 8,730 tons. 
 1833 6,480— 1836 6,770— 
 1834 12,850— 1837 3,600— 
 3)26,490 3)19,100 
 Average 8,830 Average 6,360 
 Value £.251,655 Value £.230,868 236 237 238 * * "I confess I deeply regret that the circumstances which have led to the present inquiry, instead of having been brought under the notice of her Majesty's Government, for the first time in a pamphlet printed and circulated in this country, were not fully stated to you in Jamaica, when they first came to the knowledge of the parties, through whom they have at last happily transpired. Had this course been adopted, the dismissal of Mr. Rawlinson would have taken place at a much earlier period, and the authentic statement of the written disclosures, contained in the evidence now before me would long since have supplied a motive and laid a foundation for a more complete remedy than it has yet been in the power of the Government to provide against the recurrence of such enormous abuses." And Sir Lionel Smith writes, dating 16th of July, 1837, (see p. 271 of the same papers,) "It would be puerile in me to complain of the want of personal courtesy in Joseph Sturge, but I do complain of his want of confidence in me to put him in the way of the best information. "I should have felt obliged to Joseph Sturge if he had told me of any abuses he had discovered in our system towards the apprentices." 239 ex parte, 240 l. 241 242 l. l. 243 "That active opposition to the various plans set on foot for the education of the apprentice or his children, by whatever religious denomination they may be proposed, is rarely to be met with, either on the part of the authorities or of influential individuals." "It is to be admitted, that many exhibit great apathy with reference to the question, yet it is no less true that the change of public opinion on this head in the island has been such as to surprise those acquainted, for even ten years past, with the colony, and with the strength of prejudices, which the former state of things had apparently rooted in the mind of the community at large, beyond all hope of speedy eradication; and when every few months give proof of an advance in the public feeling on this bead, and bring with them the hearty and liberal co-operation of many influential individuals, who, up to a recent date, comparatively, were foremost in opposition, there is certainly every encouragement held out to the friends of education, at home and in the island, and far more reason to wonder that so much had been already achieved, than that so much remains to be done." 244 "Having lately returned from an inspection of the greater part of these buildings, I am enabled to report that, in roost instances, I found them well regulated, and under a careful supervision, from which the special magistrate is by no means excluded: and I have every reason to believe, from the disposition manifested by the local authorities, that I shall have no difficulty in obtaining such modifications of the existing rules, as may appear to me desirable." 245 246 247 248 249 250 251 Guiana Chronicle, 252 "I consider the continuance of the present system until the 1st of August, 1840, as identified with the future welfare of this magnificent province." " I assure your Lordship that I should much regret and lament the doing away of the apprenticeship. "In thus advocating the continuance, for the present, of a system which, to a hasty observer, may appear to be too favourable to the interests of the planter as put in opposition to those of the labourer, I beg to explain to your Lordship, that I am influenced solely by what I conceive to be the general good, and that the apprentice system (if carefully superintended in its details) appears to me to be equally necessary and advantageous to both parties. If I was susceptible of being influenced by unworthy motives, the continued opposition and experienced on the
 253 "It is perfectly true that, to the utmost extent, it is, and has been the endeavour of her Majesty's Government to avoid every measure which will predetermine the nature of the relations which are to subsist between employers and servants in the West Indies after August 1, 1840.  They have postponed that inquiry until the time shall arrive for viewing the question under the many different aspects in which it must be regarded when all the necessary information shall have been collected." 254 bonâfide 255 256 257
 Viscount Howick  spoke as follows: * * 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 198 199 200 201 202 203 204 205 206 207 208
 Mr. Byng  had a greater objection to that Bill, than perhaps any private Bill that had ever been brought before the House. He had been always a friend to the recreations of the people, and hon. Gentlemen had stated that they supported the Bill because it would add to the recreations of the people. He maintained that recreation would never answer the purpose of the promoters of the Bill. They had gone to the most enormous expense, and recreation would never repay them. Nothing but vice and profligacy would make that great outlay worth their while. In the neighbourhood of this great Metropolis, there was a population of upwards of 1,500,000, and 50,000 rose every morning not knowing how to gain their daily livelihood. They had been obliged to put down various fairs in the neighbourhood of London, at Hampstead and Edmonton, and therefore it was, he did hope, that the House would not sanction this Bill, and bring down upon this unfortunate neighbourhood, all those nuisances which had been put down elsewhere. He had presented a petition to the House against the Bill, signed by no less than 1,650 individuals, among whom were many clergymen, some of whom stated what was suffered by the inhabitants of the neighbourhood last summer and autumn; there were many boarding schools there, and the petitioners were afraid that licentiousness might take place. He would give his most decided opposition to the measure.
 Lord G. Lennox  moved the third reading of the Notting Hill Footway Bill; and in doing so, begged to ask his hon. Friend, the Member for Marylebone, was it his intention to oppose the third reading, or did he still persevere in his opposition to the Bill?
 Lord George Lennox  hoped, that as he was the person who had introduced this Bill he might be allowed to say a few words. The hon. Member for Marylebone appeared to have fallen into the same mistake as other hon. Members, viz., that the object of this Bill was to sanction the Hippodrome Races. Now he could assure the hon. Member, that whether this Bill passed or not, these races would continue. On the same ground he would call on the noble Lord, the Member for Durham, to support this Bill. The noble Lord had stated, that this footpath had been the resort of scoundrels and vagabonds. Now, he would say, shut up this footpath, and the scoundrels would be shut out from it.
 Mr. O'Connell  had hoped, that the right hon. Baronet, instead of offering suggestions, would have proposed that this bill be referred to a Committee, where it might be deliberately considered. He was quite free to admit, that it was impossible to discuss this question in a more suitable tone and temper, or with greater ability than had been displayed. It was impossible not to admire the way in which the subject had been opened, and the total absence of anything like party feeling which had been observed by the right hon. Baronet. The right hon. Gentleman's mode of discussing this question showed that they had arrived at the first stage towards appointing such a tribunal as would ameliorate the system. The right hon. Baronet clung much to retaining the jurisdiction in the House; but yet he was compelled to seek extrinsic aid, and whether that should be through the instrumentality of an assessor to advise, or a judge to determine, they had now, for the first time admitted, even by the advocate for retaining the power of decision in the House, the necessity of some additional aid for the purpose of obtaining justice. Let it then, be recollected, that the principle of extrinsic assistance was admitted, and that other individuals, besides the Members of the House, were called on to aid in this proceeding. For his part, he was of opinion that this bill should be referred to a Select Committee, with instructions to consider the operation of the Grenville Act, and to suggest a remedy for the present evils. That was the plan which he meant to propose; that was the motion with which he meant to conclude the few observations he should address to the House. He thought they should have this question deliberately considered in Committee in all its bearings, particularly when it was once admitted, that something additional was required for the proper trial
 295 296 297 298 l. l. 299 300
 Lord Stanley  said, that there was only a single point on which he felt a disposition to differ from his hon. and learned Friend, and that point was as to the willingness which he had expressed to enter into a further consideration of the Bill of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Buller), for he confessed, that he was in utter hopelessness of bringing that measure to the issue which the House desired to arrive at. Although the subject had been thoroughly exhausted, sifted, and probed to the very bottom by his hon. and learned Friend; yet, called upon as he had been by several Members of the House, he was desirous to take an early opportunity to express his opinion upon it; at the same time, from the peculiar circumstances in which the debate stood, he hardly knew whether he ought to enter upon the discussion at all. For upon the question of reading the order of the day his right hon. Friend (Sir R. Peel) took the opportunity of entering a little into the general question of preserving the jurisdiction of the House, or of transferring to the ordinary tribunals of the country that power which the House at present exercised over the controverted elections in election Committees; whereupon the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, following the right hon. Baronet, and commenting at some length upon the plan which the right hon. Baronet had incidentally thrown out, intimated his intention of moving, as an amendment upon the motion of the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. C. Buller), that the Bill before the House should be sent to a select Committee, not for the purpose, however, of improving the Bill, but of entering upon the consideration of an entirely new proposition. From that moment he had waited in vain to know what course either the hon. Member for Liskeard intended to take, or what plan the hon. and learned Member for Dublin intended to propose. This was the condition in which the House was placed by the conduct of that hon. and learned Member, who had since left the House. They were, therefore, debarred from going into a consideration of the Bill of the hon. Member for Liskeard, or indeed of any other measure; for they were discussing the whole question in the absence of the hon. and learned Member who had moved the Amendment. This he believed was
 322 323 324 325 326 327 328 329
 Mr. Fox Maule  wished to set the House right with respect to a statement which had dropped from the hon. Member for Marylebone. His hon. Friend had asserted, that the influence of Government had been brought to bear on this question. Now, he did not hesitate to say, that not only was this not the fact, but that it would be a disgraceful thing for any Government to use their influence to forward the views of any private individual. What were the facts? They found this Bill before the House, after passing through a Committee, who had reported favourably of it. The Bill had reference to the public sports of the people, and as disturbances frequently occurred in such places, it was right that those who had charge of the public peace, should interfere to protect it, and it would probably have been made the ground of censure against them, if they had not. He begged the House, therefore, distinctly to understand that the part which he had taken with respect to this Bill was dictated solely by a sense of public duty.
 Lord John Russell  had anticipated, before he came down to the House, from discussions which had taken place elsewhere, and from hints which had been thrown out, that a powerful attempt would have been made to remove the jurisdiction from the House of Commons. It had given him, therefore, great pleasure to find, that the House had not made up its mind to take such a course. He rejoiced at it both because he considered there were very good reasons for retaining the jurisdiction, and because he thought that if the power of deciding was given to the judges, so far from causing these political questions to be decided by a judicial power, the effect would be eventually to make that power a political and a party power. He did not propose now fully to state his views upon the questions before the House, and although the right hon. Baronet opposite had commenced the debate by stating very clearly the plan which he proposed, which possessed considerable novelty, and was of considerable detail, and although it was stated as clearly as possible, yet that detail and that novelty would preclude him from giving his definite opinion upon it at present. All he would say was, that he was clearly of opinion that the plan was eminently deserving of consideration, and he hoped the House would deal with it in a regular shape when the proper time should arrive. For that purpose it would, perhaps, not be expedient to go into Committee on the present Bill to-night, or immediately, but it should be left for the right hon. Baronet to consider whether his plan were compatible with the principle of the Bill now before the House, and, if so, whether he might not incorporate it with the Bill in Committee, or whether, if he should find such a course impracticable, he would deem it advisable to introduce a separate measure containing provisions for carrying his proposition into execution. He could not, however, avoid saying, that the House, having had an opportunity of hearing the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, had derived the greatest satisfaction from it; and he thought that they should be allowed fully and maturely to consider the plan and
 334 335 336 337
 Lord Teignmouth  had been requested by a considerable body of his constituents to give his decided opposition to the Bill. He thought the clauses which had been brought forward were quite futile. He wished that his hon. Colleague (Mr. Hall) had pressed his opposition to the Bill on the third reading; he was persuaded the House would then have been saved much unnecessary discussion. The most frivolous pretexts had been brought forward to justify the Bill. It was said, that the Bill was only for the diversion of a footpath; and the hon. Member for Finsbury had stated on the evidence, or rather the no-evidence before the Committee, that the footpath was of no consequence. He had presented a petition from the minister, churchwardens, overseers, and vestry of Paddington, stating, that the footpath was of the highest importance to their health and pleasure. He did not object to places of public recreation. And he would support a proposition for setting apart, or purchasing, Primrose-hill, for purposes of public recreation, to be open, free, on Sundays, and on week days, for harmless games, such as cricket—and he wished more money had been expended on appropriating large tracts of land for these purposes in the neighbourhood of all large towns. But when he came to the consideration of a Bill for establishing a resort for hundreds and thousands, he begged to refer to the  Sporting Magazine 274
 Mr. C. Buller  was anxious to state his reasons for considering the Bill which he had introduced as a proper remedy for the evils which they all lamented. He should first deal with the amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin. It seemed to him to be a most extraordinary amendment as a mere matter of form, for the hon. and learned Gentleman wished the Bill to be referred to a Select Committee, not to examine it and report on its details, but to do over again the work of the Committee from which the Bill had emanated, and to strike out a new plan. The House, he was sure, would not consent to such a mockery of their own proceedings. The plan of the hon. and learned Gentleman was very simple, and at the same time very extensive, and he was glad the House was afforded by it an opportunity of deciding on the question of transferring the jurisdiction of that House to the ordinary tribunals of Westminster Hall. He was exceedingly glad that the right hon. Baronet (Sir R. Peel) had come to his assistance; and though he was rather afraid, from some observations
 301 302 303 304 sine quâ non; 305 306
 Mr. C. Buller  stated, that it was now impossible to take the sense of the House upon the important suggestions of the right hon. Baronet. He was still of opinion that the difference between the
 343
 Mr. G. Knight  said, that he had been confirmed by the debate of that night in the opinion which he had previously entertained—that there would be no certainty, and indeed no safety, in the decision of controverted elections, until they were sent for trial to some tribunal out of the House.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that there were three things to be considered: first, the certainty of the law to be administered; secondly, the constitution of the Court of Primary Judicature; and thirdly, the Court of appeal. All these points were now subject to great defects but in the Courts of Primary Judicature the most contrary decisions were given, which he believed caused the greater part of the difficulty. Then as to the certainty of the law to be administered, he thought that the noble Lord was right in the means which he took to obtain the desired end; but if the law were to be made certain, what became of the finality of the Reform Bill? There was hardly a clause in that act on which it would not be necessary to pass a declaratory law. In the Registration Bill, which had been introduced in former sessions, the object was, to determine points which were doubtful in the Reform Bill, but this was successfully objected to. If they wanted the law to be certain they must introduce the necessary changes in the Reform Act, and declare what was to be the law on these doubtful points. He had no ob-
 333
 Mr. O. Gore  expressed his concurrence in the opinions which had been expressed by his right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford. The House
 341 quamdiu se bene gesserint
 Mr. P. Howard  said, that great credit was due to the hon. Member for Liskeard for bringing a subject so vitally affecting the honour and credit of the Commons calmly and distinctly before the House. He thought, however, that the measure, which had been traced out by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, most effectually met the difficulties of the case. It obviated all the inconvenience, and, he might add, all the scandal of a canvass for attendance of Members by contending parties. The selection of a chairman, which often gave rise to party feeling, was rendered unnecessary by the appointment of an assessor, who was to preside over the deliberations of the Committee. He was, however, not of opinion that that functionary should not be invested with the privilege of voting; at any rate, it should be reserved to him in those cases only when the votes were even, for it was important that he (the assessor) should be regarded in the light of an impartial arbiter. The Bill of his hon. Friend, the Member for Liskeard, had emanated from the report of a Select Committee, and contained, no doubt, many good suggestions; but, however useful the investigation of a Committee might be in preparing evidence and laying down principles, in securing as near an approach as possible to general assent, the framing of a bill was generally best confined to a single head. The Bill of the Member for Liskeard, with eighty-nine clauses, was so lengthy and complicated, that he was desirous that the right hon. Baronet should introduce his Bill, and it would then rest with the House to adopt that which, on consideration, appeared to be most simple and effective.
 Mr. Sheil  must say, that it appeared that the plan of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had been lost sight of; and after the beneficial reforms in the administration of justice which that
 330 331 l.
 Mr. Gibson  observed, that the existing evil was admitted by the House and complained of by the country. But what were the alleged grievances complained of out of doors? First, the general incompetence of the tribunal. It was asserted, that hon. Members were placed on Election Committees who were destitute of the knowledge and ability to decide on the question before them. The second alleged grievance was, that party feeling prevailed over justice in the decisions of the Election
 307 308
 Mr. Wakley  said, that having been on the Committee to which the Bill was referred, and where it was passed without a division, he thought it was unfair that twenty Gentlemen should be heard against the Bill, and not one in its favour. He had especially to complain of the conduct of the last speaker. That Gentleman, as a Member of that House, and a lawyer, ought to have known that the proper place where his testimony should have been produced was before that Committee. In that House he was a party interested, and his  ex parte 273
 Mr. Hayter  was unable to recognise in the present Bill any principle on which Parliament could be called upon to act. When the Bill was first introduced, its ostensible object was to enable the promoter to establish a race course, and thereby destroy the rights of the public for the benefit of a private individual. What was the course that was pursued by the present promoters of the Bill? Why, when his rights were disputed, he went before the magistrates, and there the rights that he alleged were decided against
 272
 Mr. Praed  entertained a very strong opinion on this subject. He thought that a great difficulty must stand in the way of any
 340
 Mr. Hall  was understood to say, that he would take the sense of the House on the last question, that the Bill do pass, after the amendments had been brought up.
 Mr. Hall  said, one reason why he did not divide the House on the clauses was, that there might be but one division, and that when brought forward they might throw a greater degree of ridicule on the Bill than before.—The object of this Bill was at direct variance with the feelings of the inhabitants of that part of the metropolis. It was to shut out a public highway through certain ground called the Hippodrome, which was to be enclosed for the purpose of private speculation and pecuniary advantage. It appeared that a person named White, who was not the proprietor a the premises—who had pot even
 270 271
 Sir R. Inglis  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in the plan which he suggested, and which would take from the House the power of judging upon matters of this description, for he thought that course the most desirable which could be adopted. It was needless now to state in detail the evils which existed in the present system, but there was no one Member of the House who did not feel them deeply, and with the deepest sense of shame; and he believed, that the desire to remedy the existing objections was founded on feelings which were universal. An objection had been stated by the noble Lord opposite, that the power of the judges, if the jurisdiction in such matters should be given to them, would become political; but, he would ask, was there one Member of that House who
 338
 Sir Robert Peel  wished to be allowed to say one word, not strictly by way of explanation. It was entirely his own suggestion, which he mentioned to the House, but in the House of Lords he had under-
 332
 Sir R. Peel  said, that some time since, he expressed an opinion that it would be desirable, before they made any progress with this measure, that there should be a general discussion as to the specific questions which should govern their amendment of the law on this subject. An opinion had been expressed very strongly by some hon. Gentlemen, that no attempt to amend the present system, could be effectual for the purpose, and that the only hope of constituting an impartial tribunal, was to transfer it to some extraneous jurisdiction, to dispossess the House of Commons of all authority in respect to decisions in controverted elections, and to vest the power in some tribunal, having no necessary connexion with the House of Commons. He would avail himself, therefore, of the opportunity which the moving of the order of the day gave him, for the purpose of submitting his general views, not so much in respect to the details of the measure, as to the principles by which, in his opinion, the House should be governed in sanctioning any amendment of the law respecting the trial of controverted elections. As he was desirous of divesting his observations altogether of party colour, he begged leave, at the outset, to state, that the suggestions he should offer were merely his own individual suggestions. He spoke the opinion of no other Member; in point of fact, he had conferred with none. He therefore should suffer no disappointment in the event of his observations being deemed by the House unworthy of adoption. He offered them, merely as his own individual suggestions. He was most desirous of seeing the difficulties of the present system effectually remedied, and he was most desirous, also, that the discussion on this subject should not partake either of the asperity or bias
 278 279 280 Hallam's Constitutional History, "The establishment of the jurisdiction in the hands of the House of Commons was the consequence of the attempt made by Elizabeth to claim the jurisdiction for the judges of the Court of Chancery. The claim, however, was not abandoned by the succeeding Sovereign, for in the first year of James the First the same attempt was made by the Crown, to set aside the precedent established by the House of Commons in the reign of Elizabeth. The attempt was made upon the accession of James the First. The question arose upon this case between Sir Francis Goodwin and Sir John Fortescue. Sir Francis Goodwin had been elected Knight of the Shire for the county of Buckingham, and was adjudged by the clerk of the Crown not to have been duly elected, because he was an outlaw. This led to a controversy between the Crown and the House of Commons. The House of Commons presented to the Crown the humble answer of the Commons House of Parliament to his Majesty's objections to Sir Francis Goodwin's case. Objection the first, That we assume to ourselves
 281 282 283 284 285 286 "A detailed account is kept in each Electoral College of all the proceedings that take place day by day during the progress of the election. It includes a statement of the fact that all the formalities required by the law have been observed—the claims of voters—the protests against alleged irregularities in the proceedings. "These detailed accounts, or  proces verbaux, "Petitions by parties interested, complaining of irregularities at the election, may be addressed directly to the Chamber of Deputies. "Each Member sends to the Chamber the proof of his qualification. That is, a certificate of his birth, and certificate of his payment of his amount of taxes required by law to constitute his pecuniary qualification. "The verification of the rights of the deputies to their seats is the first duty of the Chamber. "The day after the opening of the Session the Chamber is divided by lot into the nine bureaux. There are 459 deputies; each bureau therefore consists of 51 deputies. "The  proces verbaux "Every bureau makes a report to the Chamber on the subject of the elections of which it has had charge, and recommends that they shall be declared valid, or annulled, as the case may be. "The Chamber divides on each. "The general principle observed in France is—
 
 "1. That the whole Chamber of Deputies, and that authority alone, can pronounce definitively on the validity of an election. "2. The final decision on every question connected with the validity of an election, the rights of the electors, the regulating of the proceedings, the qualification of the Member, is with the Chamber. "3. Everything which precedes the final discussion and decision of the Chamber is merely a preliminary examination intended for the information and instruction of the Chamber. The decisions are presumed to constitute the rule by which future decisions in analogous cases are regulated." 287 "The Speaker is elected at the commencement of each Congress, by a majority of members, by ballot. "Exercising important political powers, his political opinions are generally in accord with those of the majority. He appoints all the Standing and Select Committees, though by a rule of the House the House may do it if they please. This, however, is rarely done, except in relation to Select Committees under peculiar circumstances, or when it is desirable to the Speaker that it should be done. "There is no other security as to fairness or impartiality, in the appointment of Committees by the Speaker than that which a high sense of duty and a just regard for his own character and that of the House may be supposed to inspire. "In the construction of the important Committees of the House, where subjects involving political principles, or affecting the existing administration, political considerations must operate, at least so far as to give a majority of the Committee to the dominant party. The Committee of Privileges and Election is, however, freer from the objection of political bias than most others. "Objections on this score have been sometimes made, especially under high party excitement, and can be urged against the report of the Committee when it comes into the House. Few decisions of the Committee are reversed, and in a service of more than fourteen years I have not, I think, known more than one or two reversals. The system has generally worked well, and no effort has ever been made within my knowledge to change it. "All contested elections are submitted to the Committee of Elections in the first instance, who examine and report their opinion, with the evidence, if desired by either party or the House, or deemed by them necessary. "The rules are, that all Committees shall be appointed by the Speaker, unless otherwise directed by the House, in which case they shall be appointed by ballot. "It will be the duty of the Committee of Elections to examine and report upon the certificates of election, or other credentials of the Members returned to serve in the House,
 288 289 290 bona fide 291 292 293 294
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman was entirely satisfactory. As he (Sir R. Peel) had already stated, he offered his plan merely by way of suggestion, and with the strongest desire to keep from it the air of a political proposition. As many hon. Gentlemen seemed to wish that he should bring it forward in some shape, he would say, that he thought it infinitely better, if he were to do so, that it should be by a distinct measure rather than by any endeavour to accommodate to it a measure of a different character. He was quite prepared with the details of the measure, although upon mere matters of detail he would not commit himself, but as the hon. Gentleman had named a distant day for the Committee, he (Sir R. Peel) would, in the meantime, again direct his attention to those details, with a view to put them in a proper form. They could then be referred to a Select Committee, or considered by a Committee of the whole House, as might be deemed most advisable.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was understood to express himself favourable to the tribunal that had been suggested by the right hon. Baronet. The main cause of the discredit at present attached to the proceedings of election Committees was the uncertainty of the law. He thought, however, that there were some very important points which were not provided for by the Bill of the hon. Member for Liskeard. He did not view it as a question of party. The point to consider was, what tribunal it would be best to establish. If they could agree on a proper tribunal competent to adjudicate and to determine questions of law, he would have no objection to make the decision of a tribunal of whose competency he was satisfied, to a great extent, final, with respect to registration. He certainly would not wish to give the assessor the authority of a judge. Parliament had always been excessively jealous of its privileges in matters of this kind, and even
 339
 Sir William Follett  was of opinion that the question was one of great difficulty, and that it would be impracticable to decide it satisfactorily until more time was given for its consideration. He was not aware, until recently, of the nature of some of the propositions made upon the subject; and he was, therefore, not at present competent to give an opinion upon them. He hoped, therefore, the plan which his noble Friend, the Member for North Lancashire would, he trusted, propose might be adopted; namely, that of referring the whole of the law on the subject to the consideration of a Select Committee, with a view to the framing of a declaratory law respecting it. In fact, he considered the House in rather an embarrassing situation on this point. Several propositions had been made to the House. In the first place, his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Liskeard, wished that his bill might go on, still thinking that it might be so improved as to be made available to the purpose for which it was intended; a point on which he (Sir W. Follett) differed from him. Then there was the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, which was, to refer the consideration of his hon. and learned Friend's bill to a Select Committee, for the purpose of proposing in that Committee a plan of his own, by which certain issues in cases of controverted elections should be directed to be tried by the ordinary legal tribunals. Finally, there was the plan of his noble Friend, the Member for Lancashire, which he hoped his noble Friend would bring forward, and for which he should certainly vote. He would proceed to make a few observations upon these several plans, and especially on the first two. He differed in opinion from his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Liskeard; but he thought his hon. and learned Friend was entitled to great credit for his efforts to amend the existing state of things in this respect. The subject was one, however, which required very deliberate consideration, and he was sure
 309 310 311 312 313 314 315 316 317 l. 318 l. 319 in terrorem, in verecundiam, C. Buller: 320 321
 Colonel Sibthorpe  was sorry that he did not see the Secretary for the Home Department in his place; but though he was not present he could not have any hesitation in moving "That a return of the present valuation, as far as can be ascertained, of all the property, in lands, manors, forests, liberties, or of any nature whatsoever, which originally belonged to the several monasteries, abbeys, chapelries, or other religious houses, which, under various pretexts, and for other purposes than those for which they were established and endowed, have been from time to time alienated from the service of the Church; also a return of the names of the individuals to whom, and the periods at which, such were granted, and by whom they are now severally enjoyed." He thought it was high time that some Member should rise and defend the Church Establishment. He trusted the noble Lord would not shrink from any inquiry into these matters. Edmund Burke had said of that noble Lord's ancestor, the Duke of Bedford, that the grants to the house of Russell from the Church lands were not only outrageous to the Church, but absolutely staggered credibility. He had taken great pains to ascertain the exact amount of property which had been alienated from the Church—in fact, of which the Church had been robbed. In making calculations he had to rely chiefly upon historical records, and he believed that such alienated property would be found to amount to no less a sum than 938,308,000 l.
 Captain Jones  thought, the occurrence laid before the House was not only a breach of the law, but a gross sacrilege.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that it was quite ludicrous to call a proceeding like this, an outrage upon Protestant feelings. What were the facts? An old woman had died. She was buried in the open churchyard. Two Roman Catholic priests went to her grave in their robes. They said the prayers of the Church over her corpse. There was no riot, no tumult in their proceedings, and yet, because their prayers were uttered in Latin, the whole course of their proceedings was styled an outrage. Was not this making a mountain of a mole hill? The hon. Baronet had told the House, that at three o'clock in the afternoon mass was said over the corpse of this old woman. Now, it was a pity that the hon. Baronet should be so little acquainted with the religious principles and practices of the neighbours amongst whom he lived, as not to know that mass could not be celebrated at that hour. Either the hon. Baronet had read his affidavits wrongly, or his affidavits stated what did not, and what could not, take place. But it had been said that this was a trespass on the parson's freehold. But this poor woman on the payment of her fees, had a right, if she pleased, to be buried in that free-
 359 l.
 Mr. Colquhoun  remarked, that an occurrence like the present, of a kind quite unprecedented was very likely to produce angry feelings between the Catholics and Protestants, and the Dean of Derry had only done his duty in acquainting the Government with the particulars of the transaction. The Protestant apprentices of Derry had been prosecuted with great promptitude by Government on a late occasion, for closing the gates of the town, in infringement of the Procession Act, and punished for the offence. Instead of acting with fairness on the occasion referred to by the hon. Baronet, Government had avoided all cognizance of the facts, and all enforcement of the law to the utmost extent in their power; and when the facts were forced on their notice, they had entered into a secret and stealthy compromise with the person who was the head and from of the offending.
 Mr. F. Baring  defended the Board of Excise from the charge of neglecting the communications addressed to them, which might have arisen from the circumstance of their answers being sent not directly to the manufacturers, but to the various local
 372
 Mr. Wallace  was extremely glad this discussion had taken place before the budget was brought forward, as the House had been informed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer what amount of revenue was likely to be at their disposal, after providing for the usual expenditure of the year. That was returning, to the old system, and he was happy that the discussion had elicited the necessary information from the right hon. Gentleman. The House could not have forgotten, that last year, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised to bring forward the Budget in March, but that it was not till June that they had been furnished with a full explanation in regard to the revenues of the country. If the present discussion had not taken place, the right hon. Gentleman might have pursued the same course this year as he had adopted last year, but the House now knew what the real state of the revenue was. They were returning to the old system, which he considered best, as he thought it proper that they should know something of the revenue before the budget was brought forward. With regard to the motion before the House, he thought it would tend to beat down smuggling, and it was on that ground he should support it, and not on the ground of reducing the revenue.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell rose , to call the attention of the House to the petition of the electors of Belfast, relating to the system of taxing witnesses' expenses in election cases; and as that was a subject of some importance, he trusted it fully justified him in bringing it under the notice of the House. The case was so new, that he had hunted in vain for authorities. The petition, which must be fresh in the memory of the House, related to the claims of two gentlemen who were witnesses before a Select Committee of
 377 l. l. s., l.; l. s, l. l. s. 378
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the conversation which had just ensued showed the extreme inconvenience of entertaining such a motion as the present. This question of costs had already been referred under a particular Act of Parliament to two individuals, who always had been, and ever would be, without any political leaning, against whom there could be no suspicion—viz., a Master in Chancery and one of the clerks at the table. That tribunal had been fixed in order to avoid questions of this kind being brought by way of appeal before the House. It was obvious, that to enter upon such an appeal it would be necessary to go into the whole history of the election—into everything which passed at the trial of the petition, and with a full experience of similar cases, he felt it would be infinitely better for the House to avoid entering into an examination of such questions. As to an examination into the laws, it was unnecessary, for the law under which the claim had been recognised was contained in one short clause of the statute. If better referees in such cases than a Master in Chancery and one of the clerks at the table could be found, it would be easy to make a provision changing the tribunal in the Bill now before the House, or by a separate measure, if necessary. He was however, of opinion a more fair or impartial tribunal could not be found.
 Mr. Robert Ferguson  saw no difficulty in saying, that as far as this corps was concerned, whether as regarded the officers or the privates, he believed it was most respectable; but he could not help adding, that if any corps should be required to put down any disturbance, or to disperse a mob, the yeomanry was the very last which should be called on to act, for their own sakes; and he would ask what possibility there was that they should be well disciplined, when they went out to drill only for a week at a time, and then as much for amusement as anything else. In this country the people depended on the standing army, and they did their duty, and nothing but their duty.
 An hon. Member  submitted, that the hon. Member for Kirkaldy was travelling out of the matter under consideration.
 Mr. Ferguson  said the hon. Member appeared to be mistaken with respect to his opinion in reference to the yeomanry. He repeated that he had the greatest respect for all the component parts of it—for officers, men, and horses. He was the last person who, in his capacity of Lord-Lieutenant, would have called out the yeomanry force to act in such a case.
 Mr. Wallace  meant to speak to the question which had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Falkirk. Belonging to the county in which the yeomanry were established which had been referred to by that hon. Member, he would say, that he believed the statement of that hon. Member to be quite true; and he could not exactly understand the nature of the duties of the learned Lord, which prevented him in his capacity of public prosecutor from laying before the Houses the circumstances which must have come to his knowledge. He had admitted the riot, and he had admitted, that he knew something of it, but he would not communicate what he knew. He was prepared to say, that the time had arrived when the duties imposed upon the learned Lord required revision if he should be allowed to conceal circumstances which might come to his knowledge under them.
 The Marquess of Chandos  rose, to bring the subject, of which he had given notice, under the attention of the House, and he would not trespass long on the House at that late hour; but he must observe, that the motion was one which was of very great importance.
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that the noble Lord asked him what was his specific motion, and he would take the liberty of reading to the House the resolution which he intended to propose. It was in the following terms:—
 "It is the opinion of this House that the duties of the Lord High Commissioner and the Governor-General of her Majesty's North American provinces should be conducted with the utmost possible degree of economy, consistent with a just remuneration of the persons employed. That it appears by returns which are before this House, that the amount of the expenditure for one year on the establishment of Lord Gosford, as Governor-General, amounted to 12,678 l.; 386 "I have the honour to inform you that a desire has been expressed by a Member of the House of Commons that a statement of your Lordship's establishment as Governor-General of the British North American provinces and her Majesty's High Commissioner for the adjustment of certain affairs in Canada should be laid before the House. Lord John Russell, on the part of her Majesty's Government, having assented to this request, I shall be obliged if your Lordship will furnish me with a statement of your establishment for this purpose." "Her Majesty having been graciously pleased to intrust to me the general Government of six provinces in North America, the entire administration of affairs of one province during the suspension of the ordinary form of Government, and a separate Commission for the adjustment of weighty affairs affecting the permanent welfare of all her Majesty's possessions in North America, I must require, for the due performance of those important and multifarious functions, the most zealous and efficient co-operation." "I feel it due to those who leave this country on this arduous and difficult service to ensure to them adequate and honourable remuneration." 387 "By this feeling I have been influenced in the formation of an establishment for carrying on the Government of North America, and have the honour of inclosing you a copy of my letter to Sir George Grey of the 10th instant, in which are included the details which your Lordship requests. I have also to state to your Lordship that I have received from the Commander of the Forces permission to avail myself of the services of four paid aides-de-camp, whose assistance will be urgently required in the various personal communications which I must necessarily make to the Lieutenant-Governors and commanders of Her Majesty's forces in the different provinces placed under my Government. I have now given to your Lordship all the information I can afford you at the present time. On my arrival in North America I may possibly find it necessary to require further executive assistance, but I can assure your Lordship that I shall ever be guided by as strict an attention to economy as is consistent with what is, I own to you, my primary object, the efficiency of the public service." l. 388 l. l. l. l. l. 389 l. l. 390 391 l. l. 392 * l.,
 Captain Wood  was, he said, most willing to meet the challenge of the noble Lord, as to the character and talents of
 402
 Mr. James  was as anxious as any man in the House to promote a wise economy, but he did not see how anything in the nature of a wise economy could be promoted by the noble Lord's motion. He believed that Lord Durham had undertaken this arduous and onerous commission, most reluctantly—that, in fact, he had only undertaken it to oblige her Majesty: and he did not conceive that it would have been too much even if Government had given the noble Lord a  carte blanche
 Mr. Ellice , jun., (St. Andrew's) at that late hour of the night, would trouble the House with but very few words. He did not see that it was necessary for any one on that side of the House, much less so humble an individual as himself, to defend the appointment of Lord Durham. The best proof of the excellence of that appointment was, the bitterness and malignity with which it was assailed by hon. Members opposite. The fury and vehemence with which hon. Members opposite attacked Lord Durham, would only render his character higher, and his appointment more popular than ever. He did not, of course, suppose that the people of this country would be ill natured enough to say, that the noble Lord, in bringing forward this motion, was actuated by any feeling of jealousy that he had not been deemed a better pacificator than Lord Durham, or that the hon. Seconder of the motion was influenced by any feeling of annoyance at not having been selected as the best possible legal adviser; but the people of this country would see and say that the motion was brought forward in a spirit of enmity to the political principles on the basis of which, it was well known that Lord Durham was about to proceed on his important mission. One word with regard to himself. It had been stated, that it would have been more economical if he had been paid a salary, and he saw, in a Tory print of that morning, that his salary was described as  l. s. d. 404
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, that the hon. Member for Durham had expressed himself warmly, in reference to a term of which he had made use, and which, he admitted, could not remain unnoticed.
 422
 Mr. Scarlett  moved for a copy of any communication from the Colonial Office to the Marquess of Sligo, the Governor of Jamaica, directing the sudden emancipation of the apprentices upon the estate of Philip Anglin Scarlett, Esq., and for copies of any other documents relating to that transaction. The hon. Member said,
 361 362
 Mr. Scarlett  replied. The want of registration was entirely a mistake, for which a man ought not to lose a large portion of his property.
 Lord John Russell  inquired what the specific motion of the noble Marquess was?
 Lord J. Russell  would decline entering into any part of the present discussion, concurring, as he did, in the views expressed by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wynn). He was unwilling to presume that there was any reason to find fault with the officer in the discharge of the duty referred to him, and seeing no such grounds, he was equally unwilling to accede to the present motion.
 Lord John Russell  must, in the first place, remark, that the noble Lord had followed a very bad practice, though he was not the beginner of it, of bringing forward a motion like the present, of very considerable importance, without having given the House any previous information respecting it. The noble Lord was aware that Lord Durham was about to discharge a most important duty—the noble Lord was aware that Lord Durham was going out to Canada to fill a most important situation—the noble Lord was aware that the Government had charged the noble Earl with very high duties, and that they were responsible to the country for the appointment they had made; and yet the noble Lord had thought proper to bring forward a motion inculpating Lord Durham, and this, too, without giving any notice to the House that such a motion was to be made. The noble Lord had only told them that he would call the attention of the House to the subject. This was the ordinary way giving notice on that which it was not to be supposed would be the
 395 396 397 398 399 "The expense of Sir Charles Stuart had been referred to, but that could form no precedent for the expenditure of the right hon. Gentleman. The whole of Sir Charles Stuart's expenses were occasioned by the Peninsular war. He actually held the reins of the Portuguese Government. He was a member, he believed, the sole efficient member of the regency, and was forced to incur the whole of his large expenditure, to discharge the high official duties of his situation. But the case was very different when the war had ceased, and when the ambassador was no longer a member of the Portuguese government," * * 400 l., l., l., l., l., l., l. l., l., l., 401 l.
 Lord John Russell , in rising to set the House right, begged to say that with regard to the first resolution he wished to move the previous question.
 Mr. Hawes  regretted to hear, that the amount of the establishments of the country would not allow of any reduction of taxation; for he had hoped that the policy pursued towards Ireland, might have led to a diminution of the army, and that the saving thereby effected, would have been sufficient to cover any deficiency, which might be caused in the revenue by a remittance of taxes. He thought, too, that an increased revenue might be derived to the country from an improvement of the mercantile policy, which had, he was sorry to say, been greatly neglected hitherto. He agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny in his statement, that the present was not a new question, for it had for some time been pressed on the consideration of the Government. With respect to the duty on soap, he knew that but one opinion prevailed in the trade—viz., that it could not be justly and equally enforced. This was also the opinion of the Commissioners of Inquiry, and what, he should like to know, was the use of appointing a competent Commission, if their recommendations were to be set at nought? The question for the House to consider was, whether the Commissioners of Inquiry, who were in favour of a reduction of duty, were not more worthy of confidence on this subject than the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer? With respect to the conduct of the Board of Excise, he believed that they frequently disregarded communications made to them from the trade, and that it was the policy of the board, not to communicate directly with the manufacturers, and without direct communication, it was impossible for them to obtain any practical knowledge.
 Mr. C. Buller  had not the slightest wish to affect any concealment upon the subject of his connexion with Lord Dur-
 416 l. l. l. 417 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  did not mean to do any thing which should disoblige her Majesty. The noble Lord talked of the motion being a paltry one; he had never heard a more paltry reply than the noble Lord's. The House was entitled to an explicit statement of what the expense of this mission would be. This was, forsooth, called a reformed, retrenching Government; but they seemed to him to be carrying on a continuous, fraudulent system of increasing the expenses of the country. The fact of the matter, as the noble Lord near him had just said, was, that Ministers found Lord
 403
 Colonel Sibthorp  could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that if the hon. and learned Gentleman supposed that he came there to waste the time of the House, or to amuse it, he was totally mistaken. He trusted that none of those alluded to by the hon. and learned Attorney-General, had had their title-deeds in the late fire in the Temple. He treated the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman with the most sovereign contempt—and he was surprised that they should have fallen from one holding such a situation.
 Sir E. Sugden  observed, that the act alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, had been passed to preserve peace between the Protestants and Catholics, by preventing collisions in the churchyard where burials took place, and ought, therefore, to be enforced with peculiar strictness. As the titular Roman Catholic bishop was present to set an example of breaking the provisions of the act, he did think the case required the gravest consideration on the part of Government. The hon. Baronet was certainly quite justified in bringing it before the House.
 Sir E. Sugden  rose merely in consequence of the allusions that had been made to the appointment of a legal adviser. Before an adviser could be appointed, of course he took it for granted that there must be something to advise upon. If it was to be upon the laws of Canada, he must remind the House of what had happened to the Hollander, who came to England to teach Dutch, and who found, that it was first necessary for him to learn English. So if the legal adviser was to go to Canada, to advise upon the laws of Canada, he must first learn them. But if this were not the purpose of the appointment, perhaps it was to advise as to what ought to be the constitution, or what permanent measure should be adopted with regard to Canada. He should object to either purpose. He should object to strike out a new constitution for Canada by the aid of any lawyer, however able. He hoped, therefore, as regarded the legal adviser, that they should hear a better account as to what were to be his functions. He wished to hear from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) what really were to be the functions of that gentleman.
 Mr. Dunbar  did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion of the hon. Member for Kerry, but as his name had been introduced into the petition he was sure that the House would pardon him for addressing a few observations with respect to it. It had been truly stated in the petition, that a demand had been made on his part for his expenses, and he thought no doubt could be entertained of his right to make that demand, as the officers appointed by the House had awarded expenses in similar circumstances to his colleague. This was not, however, the reason why he had made a claim for expenses. His reason was, that Lord Belfast's agent had made a demand, amounting to 15 l., 379 380 l. 381
 Sir G. Sinclair  was understood to say, that he objected to any measure, tending to throw the funds of the country into confusion, and on that ground he would vote against any motion for the reduction of taxation, till the Budget was brought forward, and until the House knew what surplus was at its disposal.
 Sir G. Sinclair  said, that continual encroachments were made by the Irish Roman Catholics, on the rights and privileges of the Protestant Church, and it was proper that public attention should now and then be directed to the spirit manifested by them. That spirit convinced him that nothing would satisfy them but the destruction of the Protestant Church, and the substitution of the Roman Catholic establishment in its room.
 Mr. Lambton  said, it had not been his intention to obtrude upon the House on this subject, for reasons which it was not necessary to mention. But an expression
 406
 Mr. Lambton  said, he bowed to the right hon. Gentleman's opinion, and would say, that a greater mistake or misrepresentation had never been made. It did appear to him, that if ever the House was called upon to lay aside party feeling, it was upon the subject of this important appointment. In another place, when his noble relative was addressed upon this subject, he was treated by the most influential men of the Conservative party in what appeared to him to be a totally different manner from that which was exhibited on this occasion by the other side of the House. The most influential men of the Conservative party in the other House forbore, and generously forbore, from saying anything until they could form a judgment upon a consideration of his noble relative's acts. They said, they would do so when they knew what those acts were, but the same party in that House had thought proper to bring forward this motion before they could know what those acts were. The noble Marquess (the Marquess of Chandos) had acted in a totally different manner from that pursued in the other House of Parliament. The noble Marquess had, he thought, shown a want of fairness and courtesy in never having the slightest intimation sent to his noble relative that such a question would be put. The noble Marquess came down night after night putting these questions behind the back of his noble relative. It was perfectly competent for the noble Marquess to get any Peer who was actuated by the same sentiments as the noble Marquess to put questions to his noble relative. The noble Marquess knew that his noble relative had been in his place to answer any questions that should be put to him for many nights
 407
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, he thought it was most unjust, on the part of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Dunbar), to have attacked the late Member for Belfast (Mr. Gibson). He had read the letter addressed by that Gentleman to his late constituents, and he found nothing to censure in it; and he must add, that he never heard of a more extraordinary decision than that which had said a lease for lives
 382
 The Speaker  was sure the hon. Member would see the necessity of explaining the term he had made use of in the heat of debate.
 Mr. Benett  must vote against the present motion, but could not give a silent vote lest it might be thought if he did so, that he had changed his opinions upon this most mischievous tax. He had always looked on this tax as a restraint upon the health and comfort of the poor, and that it ought to be repealed; but when he had formerly voted for the abolition of it, there was an excess in the expenditure of the country, which might have been so reduced as to meet the consequent deficiency in the revenue. The house-tax might have been retained in preference, as it was felt chiefly by the rich, but the soap-tax fell principally on the poor. He certainly thought that a reduction in the duty might restrain smuggling, and not be a loss
 369 l.
 The Lord Advocate  could not agree to grant the motion of the hon. Member, and for a very good reason. The fact was, that although a report had been made to him in reference to the conduct of the yeomanry on this occasion, yet the report was not of such a nature as to enable him to give the returns called for. It was merely in the nature of a precognition, which stated that some degree of riot had taken place, but the facts which it set forth were by no means ample, and the precognition itself might be revoked by the witnesses, from whose evidence it was framed, before any trial could take place. It was not of such a nature, therefore, as to afford the necessary information to the House, its object being merely to convey a species of primary information to the Crown, which might subsequently be acted upon or not. It was evidence taken merely at the instance of the Crown, and without any cross-examination, and it would afford only conjectures which could not be fairly acted upon. He was desirous merely to say, that the production of the document could not produce any satisfactory result for the precognition did not touch on any of the particular points referred to by the hon. Member.
 Mr. Plumptre  said, in his opinion, Government had acted with the greatest partiality. The offences of Protestants
 360
 Mr. Hume  thought the Government deserved the greatest praise, instead of blame, for quietly settling an unfortunate difference.
 Mr. Hume  had never supported any proposition that he thought would endanger public credit; and if he were of opinion that the reduction of this duty would have that tendency he would not vote for it. When, three years ago, the duty on soap had been reduced one-half, there was not that proportionate increase in the amount of soap on which duty was paid as might have been expected. It was plain that the deficiency arose from smuggling. The question was whether, by an additional reduction, a stop would not be put to smuggling, and thereby, eventually, a greater amount of revenue be paid into the excise? When the duty on whisky was reduced from five shillings to two shillings and sixpence a gallon, it was predicted that the revenue would greatly suffer. What was the fact? That the very first year after the reduction of duty the revenue on whisky increased fifty per cent in amount. No man who had read the report of the Commissioners with attention could fail to remember their statement, that it was clear that the small traders in soap were principally supplied by smugglers. Was it not advisable to make an experiment, the effect of which would be at once to put an end to smuggling, and to do justice to the fair trader? With a deficiency in the revenue of 500,000 l. l. 371
 Mr. Hume  having been alluded to in the course of the debate felt called upon to address a few words to the House. He must acknowledge that he heard with great astonishment, the whole of the debate on this subject. It was the first time that he ever heard economy professed by gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, and he could not believe, that they could be serious. It appeared to him, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had brought forward this subject, in order to annoy the gentlemen on that (the ministerial) side of the House; and this, too, without any serious intention of carrying it into effect. He had never heard a motion of this purport proceed from the other side of the House before that night, When he looked at what their conduct was with regard to Canada—when he saw them make no opposition to sending out brigades of guards and whole detachments of troops at an expence of about 400,000 l. 405 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not allow the present motion to go to a division without making one or two observations on the amendment of the noble Lord. He had in no way been prepared for it, for he had come to the House to discuss the motion of the hon. Member for Falkirk, and had received no notice whatever of the amendment which had been proposed. He felt that he should not discharge his duty if he did not call the attention of the House to the motion of the noble Lord, and to the consequences of it, and the principles which it involved. The noble Lord said, that on the authority of the Commissioners a reduction might be made in the duty, and that although the first year there might be but little increase of consumption, it would afterwards become so great as to supply the deficiency of the duty in consequence of the reduced rate. Now, he would ask the hon. Gentlemen opposite, who had cheered this proposition, whether they were prepared to try the experiment when there was so great a deficiency in the revenue as had been the case in the last year? When there was a surplus it might be tried, but would it be just to do so at the present time, when the consequence must be, that if it turned out unsuccessful, many of the public engagements must remain unsatis-
 370
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it would be unnecessary for him to detain the House for any time, as the subject had been so frequently discussed before. He could not accede to the motion of the hon. Member for Falkirk, who proposed to reduce a tax that brought 700,000 l. l. Gazette, l., l. 367 368
 Mr. W. Campbell  thought, there were many other taxes more oppressive to the poor, and calling more strongly for reduction, than the tax upon soap. There was,
 373
 Mr. Gillon  would shortly state to the House the reasons which induced him to bring under their consideration his motion for the total abolition of the tax upon Soap. The chief reason was, that that important branch of their manufactures had lately fallen into a state of decline and decay. He knew how unpalatable long statements of figures were to the House, and he should, therefore, endeavour to state, as simply as possible, the alteration which had taken place in the manufacture of that article since 1833, the year when a reduction of one-half was made in the tax upon the proposition of Lord Althorp. In 1833, the quantity manufactured was 154,579,990lbs.; in 1834, 154,260,000lbs.; in 1835, 160,374,000lbs.; in 1836, 159,038,664lbs.; and in 1837, and up to the 5th of January, 1838, it was 152,114,157lbs.; exhibiting a decrease upon the gross quantity in 1837, as compared to 1836, of five per cent., and as compared to 1835, of nearly seven per cent.; upon the net quantity of soap imported into Ireland and foreign countries there had also been a decrease of ten per cent. Great, however, as that decrease was, it would have been much greater if it had not been for a sudden and accidental demand for the commodity in October last. The effect of the heavy pressure of taxation, and the extent of competition by the smuggler were such as nearly to ruin the soap trade in some parts of the kingdom, and nearly to drive it altogether out of others. In the year 1830 there were 148 towns in which the manufacture was carried on. At present the manufac-
 364 l.; l., l. l. 365 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 366 l.
 Mr. Gillon  replied, and said, that he had heard no argument which could convince him that there was anything improper or impolitic in the motion he had brought forward. In his opinion, there was no ground for any of those apprehensions which had been expressed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, If, however, the House was more inclined to adopt the amendment of the noble Lord opposite than the original motion, he should give way, but for himself, he could not consent to any compromise as to the
 374
 Mr Gillon  rose to move for a "copy of any precognition taken for, or report made to, the Lord Advocate of Scotland, respecting the conduct of the Ayrshire yeomanry cavalry, in and near the town of Kilwinning, during the last election for the county of Ayr; especially such extracts as will show the order issued for the assembling of the above corps, or any part of it, on the day previous to the said election; the name or number of the troop or troops assembled, and the number of men from other troops than those ordered out, with the names of the officers commanding or accompanying the troops which turned out on that occasion, and stating whether with their own troops and men, or with those of other troops; also the name of the place or places where the officers and men were ordered to meet, and were quartered during the day and night previous to the aforesaid election; also the hour and place at which they paraded on the election day the distance of that place from the polling station at Kilwinning, the hour they marched into that town, stating also the pace at which they were conducted, and the hour and place of their arriving at the polling-booth, the time they were kept there during the hours of polling, and when relieved from duty." If the learned Lord would consent to grant his motion, he would not say one word upon the subject; but as he was given to understand that the learned Lord would oppose it, he
 383
 Mr. Praed  in seconding the motion, observed, that the present was one of those cases which especially required to be brought under the consideration of the House of Commons, and he begged it to be distinctly understood, that no part of its effect would be to deprive the noble Earl of any of the just means or advantages necessary to an effective discharge of his duty. Of what importance to him could be a few aides-de-camp, more or less, or an additional lieutenant or two? But an abuse of liberal expenditure would be not only a waste of the public money, but possibly an impediment to the public service; for let it not be forgotten, that the noble Earl was going out to a colony, especially jealous of superfluous expense; that the de-
 * 393 "With trope and metaphor his Lordship comes, "Phrases for figures, similes for sums." 394 "St. Paul's great cupola just brought to bed, "After large labour, of a small pin's head."
 Sir G. Grey  was at a loss to know what object the hon. Gentleman had in view in the motion which he had made. The facts occurred so far back as 1835, and could not, of course, be fresh in the recollection of hon. Members. The case was simply and entirely one of law, turning upon the construction of the Slave Emancipation Act. The noble Governor of the island of Jamaica had taken the step complained of in accordance with the opinions of the law officers of the Crown. He could not understand what the hon. Gentleman meant by bringing the case before Parliament at a time when parallel and corresponding cases were under the consideration of the judicial Committee of the Privy Council upon appeal from the courts of Jamaica, and after all the House had lately heard as to its incompetency to decide upon abstruse points of law. The case was shortly this:—In the spring of 1835 the Marquess of Sligo, then Governor-General of the island of Jamaica, brought under the consideration of the Secretary of State for the Colonies a question which had been raised there upon the construction of the Act of Parliament, as to whether or not the slaves which had been registered in 1832, and had not been registered in 1835, came within the provisions of the Emancipation Act. The law officers of the Crown having the question submitted to them, were of opinion that the slaves ought to have been registered triennially, and that in cases where that had not been done, they were entitled, under the provisions of the Act, to unconditional freedom, and the Government would not be justified in compelling them to continue to submit to a continuance of slavery. Acting upon this advice, the Marquis of Sligo set the slaves upon the estate
 363
 The Attorney-General  observed, that in Jamaica the fault of non-registration lay entirely with the owners of the slaves, and not with the returning officer.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the only reply which he could give the hon. and gallant Officer was, that it would be impossible to furnish the returns which he had moved for. The hon. and gallant Officer had not suggested to whom the
 353
 Sir R. Bateson  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to bring under the notice of the House certain circumstances which had created such a sensation among the Protestant inhabitants of the city of Derry as rendered the interference of Parliament necessary. On Sunday, the 14th of January, 1838, at the hour of three o'clock in the afternoon, the funeral of a Roman Catholic lady took place in the churchyard of the cathedral of Derry. She was a Roman Catholic, and notice was previously sent to the sexton of the cathedral that her friends intended to bury her there, and that two Roman Catholic priests would attend the funeral in their robes. This was communicated to the Dean of Derry, and he immediately sent word to
 354 355 l. 356 357
 Sir R. Bateson  remarked, that the noble Lord had not made the shadow of an attempt to defend the outrage, as he must still call it. He had no objection to omit from his motion the words requiring the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, since that was contrary to the usual custom.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he had heard such extraordinary comments made in the course of this debate upon the motives of his noble Friend with whom this motion had originated, and upon the demand made in the House of Commons with respect to the public expenditure, that he felt it absolutely necessary to rise for the purpose of protesting against the precedent sought to be established. He thought, that the hon. Gentleman, who, with a very natural feeling, prompted by fraternal affection, had risen on that side of the House, could not imply, that the Opposition had shown any disposition unfairly to question the appointment of Lord Durham. He did not consider, that they were entitled to call in question the qualifications of the Earl of Durham for the office to which he had been appointed. Her Majesty had the unquestionable prerogative of selecting whom she should think proper to fill that office; and he should think it inconsistent with the respect which he owed to the Crown and the privileges which the Crown exercised, if he made the particular qualifications of the noble Earl the subject of discussion in the House of Commons. He must say, that he had not heard in the course of the debate upon the Canadian affairs any expression which Lord Durham had a fair right to complain of. He did believe, that never had any appointment been made which, considering the excitement that prevailed with respect to party politics, had been treated with more perfect fairness by the opponents of her Majesty's Ministers than the appointment of Lord Durham. He considered this question to be one entirely apart from the jurisdiction of the House of Commons; but, at the same time, he must contend for the absolute right of the House of commons to bring forward propositions
 408 John Russell: 409 "Downing-street, March 24,1838. "My Lord—I have the honour to inform you, that a desire has been expressed by a Member of the House of Commons in his place, that a statement of your Lordship's establishment as Governor-General of the British North American provinces, and her Majesty's high Commissioner for the adjustment of certain affairs in Canada, should be laid before the House. Lord John Russell, on the part of her Majesty's Government, having assented to this request, I shall be obliged, if your Lordship will furnish me with a statement of your establishment for this purpose. I have, &c. (Signed) "GLENELG." "The right hon. the Earl of Durham, G. C, B, &c. &c." l. l. 410 l. l. Name. No! 411 bonâ fide. 412 Hume 413 "This individual in the capacity of his Majesty's royal Commissioner, will repair to Lower Canada, fully instructed to examine, and, if possible, to terminate, the various points of discussion, in the hope of composing all those differences which have so long agitated the province, and which have deeply afflicted his Majesty's loyal subjects. For this end, it will be the object of his Majesty to renew an inquiry into every alleged grievance, to examine every cause of complaint, and to apply a remedy to every abuse that may still be found to prevail; for this end there is no sacrifice he would not cheerfully make which should be compatible with the fundamental principles of the constitution itself, and with the continued existence of the province as a possession of the British Crown." Oh, oh! 414 l. l. 415
 Sir S. Canning  wished to say a few words in reference to the allusion which the noble Secretary for the Home Department had made to the conduct of a revered relative of his, during his celebrated mission to Lisbon. An hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, had spoken, as if it were a hardship on the Earl of Durham that any limit should be placed to the amount of his establishment, and to the expenditure necessary to support it. Now, it might be recollected, that that noble Earl was the very person who had brought an accusation against his revered relative, the late Mr. Canning, on the occasion to which the noble Secretary had alluded. It might also be recollected, that Mr. Canning, in his justification of himself, against the charges preferred against him
 418
 Viscount Morpeth  said, as to the charge of partiality, this case was of an entirely novel and unprecedented nature, while the case of the Derry apprentices recurred annually, and had been made the subject of an act of Parliament. He regretted that hon. Gentlemen opposite were so much less easily pleased than the person who made the complaint.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that with one exception, he had no objection to the production of the documents for which the hon. Member had moved. It was not usual to produce the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, and he therefore trusted that the hon. Member would omit from his motion the words, "law officers of the Crown." With that omission, he had no objection to the motion. With respect to the case itself he had no hesitation in saying, that the proceeding in question was a most improper, a most unauthorised, a most indelicate, and, he must add, a most illegal proceeding. When it first came under the consideration of his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General for Ireland, as it did not appear that the performance of these funeral rites, had been celebrated without the permission of the clerical officers authorised to give it, it was assumed that that permission had been given. The delay which had taken place in answering the representations made to the Irish Government was owing to his absence from Dublin, and to the despatches having followed him from Ireland to this country. When it appeared to him that the intrusion of these Roman Catholic clergymen into the consecrated ground of the cathedral of Derry, was without the permission of the dean, the law officers of the Crown immediately declared their opinion as to the illegality of their proceedings. He did not understand the Dean of Derry to have expressed any wish that any prosecution should be instituted against them. What he called upon the Government to do was, to prevent the inhabitants of Derry from being annoyed by a repetition of it. The Irish Government thought that this would be best done, by pointing out the indelicate and illegal nature of the proceeding, and by warning the parties that it should not be repeated without exposing them to severe and summary punishment. Accordingly, a letter had been sent to Dr. M'Loughlin, informing
 358
 Viscount Palmerston  did not rise to dispute the full right of the House, or indeed of any Member of it, to question any part of the public expenditure; neither had his noble Friend near him ever questioned the existence of that privilege, either upon that or upon any previous occasion. That which his noble Friend had found fault with was the manner in which this motion had been brought forward, both as regarded the way in which notice of it had been given, and as regarded the unfairness with which it had been afterwards treated. It was not fair that, without any previous notice, further than that of an intention to call the consideration of the House to the expenses of Lord Durham's mission, a motion of censure should have been brought forward both against an individual on the point of starting on an important public mission, and against the Government which had appointed him to execute that mission. He maintained, that it was a censure on the noble Earl to assert that he had accepted an office of high rank and dignity to which undue allowances were attached, and on the Government to assert, that it had given him those allowances without a due regard to economy and retrenchment. The right hon. Baronet seemed to find fault with the Government because it had not made a full statement of the extent of the noble Earl's establishment, and of the amount of its necessary expenditure; and had complained that the letter addressed by his noble Friend Lord Glenelg, to the Earl of Durham, was not the usual mode of demanding from a public servant an estimate of the expenses
 419 420 l. l. l. 421
 Viscount Sandon  said, that he could fully enter into the feelings of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon his opposition to the motion of the hon. Member for Falkirk; for it was impossible, in the present decreased state of the revenue of the country, to propose a total abolition of the duty on soap; but, at the same time, he was not altogether satisfied that something not very far short of a total abolition would be a great relief to the manufacturers, without causing any material injury to the public revenue. If it were reduced, the consumption, and consequently the revenue, would be increased. In his opinion, the present high duty could not be long maintained, for since the year 1833, 3,000,000 pounds of soap had been brought to charge less than in that length of time preceding, notwithstanding the increase of the raw materials, and this could only have been occasioned by smuggling. He would suggest to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to follow out the recommendations of the Commissioners of Excise Inquiry as to the manufacture of soap, which had lain unnoticed for the last three years, and would just mention a most remarkable fact, that at present the retail trade of London was for the greater part not supplied by regular, but by clandestine, manufacture, proving the extent to which smuggling was carried on. He thought a reduction of thirty-three per cent. might be made without any loss, and he should therefore move as an amendment, that the present duty on soap be reduced by a third.
 Viscount Sandon  hoped he might be allowed to say a few words after what had just fallen from the hon. Member opposite, and to state the course which he intended to pursue. After what had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in reference to the public revenue, and after the right hon. Gentleman had sued to them so strongly  in formâ pauperis, No, no, Divide, divide.
 Captain Gordon  had no objection to a uniform system of prison discipline in Scotland under the authority of a Central Board of Commissioners, but then the powers of those Commissioners should be limited. What he objected to in this Bill was, that an irresponsible board should have the power of assessing the people of Scotland to the amount of 30,000 l.
 Mr. Maule  said the Bill was introduced early last Session. Its principles had been affirmed by the House, and it was referred
 427 l.
 Mr. F. Maule  moved the second reading of the Prisons (Scotland) Bill.
 Mr. Lockhart  had several clauses to propose in Committee, but would not object to the Bill being read a second time.
 Mr. Pringle  objected to the Central Committee, but should not offer any opposition to the Bill in its present stage.
 Mr. Lucas  said, that he was favourable to the principle of the Bill, but as the House was so thin he suggested that the Bill should be read a second time, and reserve the discussion for the Committee.
 Sir E. Sugden  interrupted the hon. Member, stating, that as there could be no objection to the principle of the Bill, he thought it would be better, as the House was so thin, to take the second reading as a matter of course, and reserve the discussion until the Bill was in Committee.
 Mr. French  moved the second reading of the Medical Charities (Ireland) Bill. He said, he had already explained to the House the object and nature of this Bill, and should not detain them by a repetition of his former statements. He was glad an opportunity was at last afforded him of drawing attention to the wretched condition of the sick poor of Ireland, and to the necessity of establishing a systematic and efficient plan of public medical aid. The subject of medical reform was not only important in its nature, but difficult in its execution; it was, he assured hon. Members, no easy matter to effect such a change as would at once promote the public welfare and secure the approval of the members of the medical profession, both of which, he frankly admitted, he considered it desirable to accomplish, if possible. It might be supposed, from there not being any connexion between political controversy and medical reform, that the subject of this Bill was one which could be debated on neutral ground, free from excitement of any kind; he was not, however, sanguine enough to suppose that a question affecting several influential interests, could be free from the irritation which usually followed the collision of hostile opinions, and, indeed, the petitions already presented to the House, and some publications sent forth to the world, showed that some angry feeling did exist amongst the parties immediately interested. Differing, however, as to the expediency of the contemplated alterations, all had concurred in admitting that a change of the present system had become indispensable; in the present thin state of the House, he did not deem it advisable to detain them by enumerating the different Acts of Parliament under which existing medical institutions were founded, nor should he enter on any general history of the
 430 l. intern extern
 Mr. Warburton  remarked, that there was only one inconvenience in the course suggested by the noble Lord, and if it could be obviated he would mike no objection to the course proposed. What was wished for was, that the arguments of those who were in favour of the Bill, and also the arguments of them who objected to it, should go forth to the public; and then that some interval of time would be allowed to elapse between the day upon which that discussion took place, and the day upon which the proceedings in the
 432
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the House would not really be doing justice to the subject, which was a very important one, if it permitted the second reading to take place without a discussion. He was himself so far favourable to the principle of the Bill, that he thought that a superintending authority was required for the medical charities in Ireland; but then he differed in opinion with the hon. Mover of the Bill, as to the manner of carrying that principle into execution. On that account he must object to many clauses that were in the Bill. If the hon. Member went on, and if he had an opportunity of making a statement as a supporter of the Bill, it would not be right to allow the Bill to have a second reading without there being any answer to that statement.
 Mr. R. Steuart  said, the remarks of the right hon. Baronet were of a very useful kind, and he was sure that his hon. Friend would give them his immediate consideration. The difficulties involved in the question of assessment had been felt and duly considered, and the result was, that the difficulties attending every other plan that had been brought forward were found to be greater than those attending the plan proposed in the Bill. He would, however, willingly agree to any other practicable mode of assessment, and he should feel great pleasure if, by giving the power to the head courts or otherwise, the rate-payers should be enabled to tax themselves.
 Mr. Hawkes  moved the second reading of the British Manufacturers' Protection Bill. The Bill was one which affected the vital interests of this great empire, and in which the labouring classes were closely identified, and he trusted, that the House would permit him to enter into a brief statement of the grievances that the present bonding system inflicted on the manufacturers of British hardware. Foreigners made a practice or trade of bonding goods, and exporting them as British, manufacture, with the names and
 426
 Mr. Wakley  felt the bill to be so objectionable in character, that if he possibly could, he would not permit one clause of it to be carried; and the principles of the hon. Gentleman's measure were so odious, that he must then notice that there were not forty Members present.
 The Attorney-General  fully agreed with the right hon. Baronet that local assessments should be laid by those who contributed to them; but at present those assessments were levied by officers appointed by the Crown, while the persons in whom it was proposed to vest the power would be appointed by Parliament. As representative of a very large constituency, he begged to thank his hon. Friend for the pains he had taken in preparing this Bill, and on the happiness it was likely to confer.
 Sir R. Peel  admitted, that some legislation was necessary on this subject, as, in a country like Scotland, where the prisons were necessarily small, the discipline was generally lax, It was only in large societies that public opinion exercised any influence. In some of the prisons in Scotland only two, three, or four inmates were generally to be found, and the office of gaoler almost fell into desuetude. It might not be objectionable to have a Central Committee or Board in the metropolis, which might afford the benefit of its experience to the more remote districts, and wean them from their too great leaning towards existing systems. He did not, however, think it desirable to supersede altogether the influence of country gentlemen, and it was with some concern he had heard that the gentlemen of Scotland had so much withdrawn themselves from all public business, He admitted, that a board of central control would possess great advantages, but if it altogether superseded the interference of the country gentlemen he feared the advantages would be purchased at too high a price. However well the system might work at first they would ultimately have reason to regret that the gentlemen of the Country were precluded from interference.
 428
 Viscount Morpeth  remarked, that his hon. Friend who had moved the second reading, waved his statement, upon the understanding that a discussion should take place at a future time. Perhaps, then, the hon. Member for Bridport would not object to the Bill going through a second reading that night, upon the understanding that an opportunity for debate would be given on the motion for going into Committee. He could assure that hon. Member, that although he wished the Bill to be read a second time, yet there were many provisions in it which he should not give any pledge that he would be found to support
 Mr. E. R. Rice  moved "for copies of all memorials or other documents which have been received by her Majesty's Government since the 1st of January, 1832, complaining of the aggression of French fishermen on our coasts." Whatever difficulties (the hon. Member observed) there were at present as to the settlement of this question must become greater if the remedy for the evil were longer delayed. Every Member of the House, who had given the slightest attention to the subject, must admit how important it was to give encouragement to our national fisheries. It was sufficient, therefore, for him to state that the evils which were complained of for some years past had increased. He believed it to be
 433
 Mr. Bell  offered his acknowledgments to the hon. Member for Dover for having brought this important question under the consideration of the House. He had presented numerous memorials and some statements of well-authenticated cases of aggression committed by French fishermen on the fishermen of the county of Northumberland. In these attacks, the aggressors had many times destroyed property to the value of 20 l. l. 435
 Captain Pechell  rose to move for a return of slave vessels brought before the several courts of mixed commissions for adjudication between the 1st of January, 1828, and the 1st of January, 1838, stating the names of the seizor, and the decretal part of the sentence, whether forfeiture or restitution, with or without costs. The gallant Officer stated, that twenty-nine vessels had been captured under the equipment treaty concluded with Spain, nineteen of which were empty, and nine contained slaves. This fact was, in itself, a complete refutation of the statement made by a high authority that British officers refrained from capturing vessels while lying on the coast unladen, in order that they might seize them after they had taken on board their cargoes. The gallant Officer was proceeding, when the House was counted out.
 Captain Pechell  said, that although his hon. Friend had, as it were, been poaching on the fishing ground that he had claimed for his own Parliamentary privilege and occupation—he should cordially second the motion and co-operate to the utmost in its object; for it was melancholy to see the difference between the encouragement given to our fishermen and those of France by their respective Governments. In 1829, there were nine affidavits laid before the Treasury of the aggressions committed on the Dover boats; but the Duke of Wellington said he could find or suggest no means to remedy the grievance, but that the fishermen should go to sea in such numbers as to protect themselves. The danger was believed to be so great last season that the Brighton fishermen gave up their harvest. All along the Suffolk and Sussex coasts, the fishermen
 434
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the Government was fully sensible of the bearing of this question on the national industry; but, at the same time, he must assert, that the settlement of this question was attended with greater difficulty than hon. Gentlemen might at first sight think. Some months ago, the French Government had, on the application of the English Government, established a commission at Longueville on the subject of the oyster question, but it had not yet brought its labours to a conclusion. The cause of quarrel was, some years ago, a boundary line was fixed very unfavourable to the British fishermen, who thereupon had been tempted to trespass. The French fishermen had, on their part, been tempted to retaliate. However, judging from the friendly feeling prevailing between the two Governments, he hoped that some understanding would shortly be arrived at which would prevent these unpleasant collisions. With respect to the ships of war, he hoped that hon. Members would see that if any other means could be adopted it would be more consistent to resort to them in the first instance, and not to resort to a mode which might perhaps embroil the parties still more, and seriously interfere with the happy relations which now existed between the two countries.
 Mr. O'Connell  would ask the House whether it were necessary to bring the printer to the bar of the House? He submitted to the House that Mr. Poulter was a gentleman of that high standing and respectability in society that he would not have allowed his name to have appeared from the morning to the present time if he had not written the letter, without informing the parties interested that it was a forgery. They had every reason to be quite convinced that Mr. Poulter had signed the letter, and until Mr. Poulter denied it he could not see why the unfortunate printer should be brought to the bar of the House. He would submit, therefore, that as far as that part of the motion went, it had better be omitted. He would not have spoken at all if the hon. Member for Berkshire had not alluded to his case. Now, what had that precedent to do with the present case? A bad precedent was not to be followed. He thought it most important that they should have the evidence taken before the Committee before them, and particularly after the statement that had been made on both sides, and the remarks that had been made upon the facts given in evidence. The hon. Member had not read that part of the letter that referred to treating. He thought this was a most important feature in the case. If the statements that had been made were proved in the evidence, he did not know how any man in his senses could have arrived at the conclusion which the majority of the Committee had arrived at. This was not the first time that Committees of that House had been charged with deciding from party bias, and he thought it absolutely imperative upon the House to set itself right with the public on this point. [ Cheers from the Opposition benches. No, 464 no!
 Mr. O'Connell  moved, that the clerk at the table read the passage. "We then proved a case of treating so extensive and decisive, that if any one should desire to state the sort of evidence by which such an allegation should be sustained, he might be content to take as an example what was substantiated before the Committee. Ample opportunity was afforded for establishing this part of the case, by the notorious fact that unlimited treating was the only mode an entire stranger could adopt of standing against one who did, and does at this moment, possess the affections and opinions of a large majority of your constituency. This proof was also treated with the same contempt as the rest of my just and righteous cause."
 Mr. James Stewart moved the insertion of a clause foe the total abolition of negro apprenticeship, as established by the act of 3rd and 4th of William 4th c. 73, in the island of Jamaica, on the 1st of January, 1839.
 Mr. O'Connell  protested against one argument which had been used by the hon. Baronet; namely, that this question had been decided already. One of the great arguments used against the proposition before the House the other night, was, although Jamaica might be very faulty, vet, inasmuch as all the other colonies were included in the proposition, it was incumbent on the House to resist the motion altogether. So that Jamaica was protected because the other colonies were connected with it in the terms of the proposition. As to putting an end to the agitation now going on upon this subject, that could only be done by the total abolition of the apprenticeship system.
 Lord Worsley  said, that this was rather an inconvenient way of settling this matter. As the hon. Member for Wallingford (Mr. Blackstone) had given notice that he would move, that the evidence taken before the Committee be printed, he (Lord Worsley) would suggest the propriety of post-poning this motion until after the evidence was printed. He thought that they would then be better able to come to a right decision, when every member of the House, by reading the evidence, would be able to judge of the statements made on either side.
 Mr. Elliot , as a member of the Shaftesbury Committee, felt bound to say a few words on the occasion, and he felt that he was the more particularly bound to do so, as he considered he was so distinctly alluded to by the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. He had then no hesitation in saying, that, however much he might have differed from other Members of the Committee upon many material points, it never had entered into his mind, nor indeed did he think, that any Gentleman could suppose, that the hon. Members from whom he differed were influenced by corrupt motives. He said this although he had differed from those hon. Members upon almost every point—he did so honestly and openly. He gave them credit for doing the same. There appeared to him to be good feeling on either side, although it was his opinion that, on the part of a majority of the Committee, there was a perversion of justice. What he meant to say, was an honest perversion of justice. In his judgment there was a perversion of justice; in their judgment there was not. He did not presume to say whether he or they were in error. The hon. Member for Wallingford had alluded to the vote of George Mullins, and the vote which the Committee had come to respecting it. He did not think, that the hon. Member had properly explained that matter—he was sure the mistake fallen into was not intentional; but the fact was, that the counsel who opened the case informed the Committee that a single vote would be put before them for the purpose of deciding thirty-one votes. Then the thirty-one votes were to be decided upon the case of George Mullins. That was the understanding of the counsel upon both sides, and then they took the vote of
 458 459 l. 460
 Mr. Luke White hoped that his hon. Friend would not withdraw his motion. It was well known that the planters of Jamaica and the Assembly there had opposed the Abolition Act in the most disgraceful, cruel, and inhuman manner.
 Lord John Russell  said, that before the question was put, he wished to address a few remarks to the House. The House seemed, on a former occasion, to have come to a decision that cases of this kind ought to have precedence. He must say again, that he entertained a very contrary opinion, and he was convinced, and more convinced every day, that in cases of this kind the most prudent course that the House could adopt would be to allow the matter to pass unnoticed. With respect to the merits of the Shaftesbury Election Committee, he must say, as he did on all others, that he would never enter into the merits of any question that was decided before the Election Committees. These Committees were the regular tribunals to decide those cases. He supposed, that they decided according to conscience and according to evidence, and he would never make any remark as to whether they had decided right or wrong. With respect to the general question, he might have occasion again to detail to the House the line which he thought it most eligible for the House to adopt; but he would only say now with regard to Mr. Poulter, that he had no doubt himself that the letter was a genuine document, and was signed by Mr. Poulter. That gentleman, no doubt, was, as had been stated, of an anxious temper, and he conceived that there could be no doubt but that the expressions made use of had arisen from that anxious temper of mind; but he must say, seeing every day the anonymous charges made against Election Committees, accusing them, whether the majority of the Committee was composed of Members on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, or of the other side, of most corrupt, most nefarious, and most perjured conduct in their decisions, that his respect and regard for Mr. Poulter were increased and not diminished from his having had the courage to add his name to his letter instead of publishing it anonymously.
 Mr. Baines was anxious to introduce into this Bill a clause with regard to the marriages of the labourers. There was at present a defect in the state of the marriage ceremony in the West Indian colonies, which, as it had been admitted by the Government two years back, he
 469
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that he should only detain the House for a few minutes, whilst he stated the reasons which induced him to withdraw all opposition to this bill. It appeared to him that the provisions which he meant to introduce were necessary for the safety of the apprenticed labourer; and as her Majesty's Government had adopted them, all his objections to the Bill were removed. The first provision was, that no apprenticed labourer should be subjected to whipping or beating in any prison, workhouse, or other place, except with the approbation, and in the presence of a special magistrate. The other clause was still more important, and the whole correspondence which had taken place showed the want of such a power. It was this, that the Governor in Council in each colony should, if he deemed them expedient, make such new and other regulations in the prison, workhouse, or hospital, as to him might seem fit. This clause would give a power of controlling the Colonial Legislatures and doing justice to the apprentices. The last alteration was, that the apprenticeship should altogether cease in the year 1840. So that there should be no restricting tie left on the labourer under the Act of 1833. The hon. Member for Knaresborough proposed, that this clause should include free children. So far from objecting to this, he thought that her Majesty's Government ought not to lose an instant in turning their attention to the condition of the free children of the colonies. He was glad that the frankness with which the Government had adopted his amendment released him from the necessity of further opposing the Bill.
 Captain Mathew  said, that in the very peculiar position in which he was placed he should be naturally expected to say a few
 461 462
 The Speaker  said, that as the present Bill was entitled an Act for the Amendment of an Act relating to the Abolition of Slavery, and as the present motion related to the duration of the apprenticeship, there was no reason why it should not be discussed in Committee.
 Mr. James Stewart  rose to move as an
 466 467 468
 Mr. Yates opposed the clause, and said, that he considered our legislation had done more mischief to the cause of humanity, in the colonies, than anything besides. He had full confidence in the wisdom of the colonists themselves, who he had no doubt would adopt whatever measures the general interest required.
 Mr. P. Howard  thought, it would be a breach of promise on the part of the British Legislature with the colonists, to adopt the clause of his hon. Friend.
 Mr. R. Palmer  said, that the question before the House did not in any way depend on the evidence taken before the Committee. The question was, whether they were prepared to let this subject drop. The gentleman who wrote the letter complained of, had been for some time a Member of that House, and must have known that if he presumed to use expressions in that House reflecting on the Committees, the Speaker would have called him directly to order. Not long ago the House had thought it its duty to take under considera-
 463
 Mr. Blackstone  said, that it was with great pain he had taken the present course; but as this was a breach of privilege, he could not consent to postpone it. He did not think, that it would be becoming the dignity of the House to postpone the motion.
 Mr. Blackstone  had no objection to have that part of the letter read which referred to treating, but he did not think it was at all necessary.
 Mr. Blackstone  felt it to be his duty, and it was to him a most painful duty, to call the attention of the House to a letter which had been printed in  The Morning Chronicle 454 The Morning Chronicle "To the Electors of the Borough of Shaftesbury—Gentlemen—An unprincipled combination to which I have been for some time exposed has been but too successful. A petition, which under ordinary circumstances and with a fair Committee might probably have been found frivolous and vexatious, has, by the effect of mere chance, been enabled to call to its assistance the services of the most corrupt majority of a Committee that ever degraded the administration of justice and the name of the Commons of England. The consequence has been, that I have ceased to be your representative in Parliament. The printing of the evidence by the order of the House will, I trust, exhibit to you and to the world the full particulars of this most flagrant and wicked case." "The conduct of a revising barrister of the name of Graves, in neither giving the overseer of Stower Provost an entire day for bringing in his list, nor adjourning (as it was his duty to have done) in such a manner as to prevent
 455
 Mr. Blackstone  moved, that John Layer Poulter, Esq., of the Temple, the writer of the letter, and Martin Smith Metcalf, of 3, Savoy-street, Strand, the printer of  The Morning Chronicle
 Sir F. Trench  felt the extreme importance of the amendments which had been introduced by his right hon. Friend Sir E. Sugden; but while he did so, he should take every opportunity of impressing upon the Legislature the necessity of the immediate abolition of the apprenticeship system, and of making the negroes entirely free. His constituents took an immense interest in this question, and so did he. He was induced to rise, because it had been imputed to members at his and the other side of the House that they had acted in the manner which they felt it their duty to do, in order to conciliate the opinion of their constituents. He should look upon himself as very weak and foolish, if such a fear induced him to act contrary to his conscience. When he heard the
 470
 Sir G. Grey said, that having a few nights ago so fully entered into the question, and the House having then, when it was more than usually full, decided upon the proposition brought before them, after that proposition had been argued almost exclusively with reference to the colonies, of which Jamaica was one only, he felt he should be improperly intruding upon the House, if he were now to state at length, the grounds upon which he opposed the present motion. The debate to which he had referred, lasted two nights, during which the fullest opportunity was given for the amplest discussion, and the division took place without any intimation being expressed on the part of any hon. Member of a wish to add anything further to that debate. After the solemn and deliberate decision to which the House arrived on that occasion, and more especially after the notice which had been given that the general question would be again brought forward after the expiration of the Easter holidays, he did not believe that the House would consent to revive that discussion now. He fully concurred with the hon. Gentleman in the wish to accomplish all the objects contemplated by the Legislature on passing the Abolition Act; but he
 472
 Sir G. Grey  reminded his hon. Friend that a circular had been sent to the respective Colonial Governors some years back, requesting them to submit to the local Legislatures the expediency of passing such a law as would enable the various missionaries to solemnize the ceremony of marriage. He felt happy in stating, that a prospective law was passed to effect that object, but very great difficulty was found in legislating for past marriages, and defining accurately the criterion by which they should be determined. The Wesleyan Missionary Society had the subject under their consideration, and had promised to furnish such lists as they deemed requisite. If the Colonial Legislatures were not found to adopt the views of the Home Government, he hoped with the assistance of his hon. Friend, and the valuable aid of his hon. and learned Friend (Dr. Lushington), to introduce such a plan as would be unobjectionable.
 Mr. Ward supported the motion, and said, that he could not do so without adverting to the great question of negro apprenticeship, upon which the House had recently come to a division. He confessed, for his own part, he never came to a vote with more doubt and uncertainty than upon that occasion; nor ever voted with less reliance on the accuracy of his own judgment. He felt bound to make this statement in the face of the House, because of the partial publication of a letter which he wrote on the morning after the division, all the expressions contained in it relating to the doubts which prevailed on his mind having been studiously omitted. The advocates of total abolition, and the antislavery delegates had, in their meetings, passed a severe censure on him and those hon. Gentlemen who took a like course. That letter, as published, seemed to attack all those Gentlemen who had arrived at a different conclusion from himself on the subject. Nothing would have been more unfair or more unjustifiable on his part than to have intended to have expressed himself in any such manner; and nothing, he could assure the House, was further from his wish than to do so. He had stated distinctly, that one of the reasons why he did not reply to the speech of the hon. Member for Newark, was the utter impossibility he felt of reconciling the facts and statements which had been communicated to him, with regard to the popu-
 471 W. Gladstone
 Sir T. Fremantle  said, he had no wish to put the printer to unnecessary inconvenience, but, consistently with the forms of the House, he thought that the printer's attendance must be required. If Mr. Poulter avowed the letter, the printer would not be called to the bar, and he did not think it was any great hardship in directing the printer to come down to the House. It might turn out that the letter was a fabrication, and he should be happy
 465
 Mr. Howard  did not think the remuneration given to the special magistrates was sufficient to compensate them for residing in so deadly and unhealthy a climate to Europeans; and this country having granted 20,000,000 l.
 Mr. Gladstone  agreed to the addition. He was willing that the special magistrates should be relieved from costs, either by rendering the parties liable or having them paid out of the Treasury.
 Mr. Gladstone  observed, that the Bill in its present state exempted special Magistrates from liability to actions, and it might be perfectly right not to subject them to the verdicts of West-India juries without the intervention of any authority for their protection. However just and reasonable this rule might be, it formed no reason for preventing cases against them being gone into, because publicity under the circumstances of those colonies could not fail to be attended with advantageous results. His purpose in then rising was to propose a clause making it lawful for all proceedings against special magistrates to be heard, and even carried to judgment and execution, unless the governor of the colony saw ground for arresting their progress.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that if he consented to such a clause, it would be only on condition that the governor, in addition to the power which the hon Gentleman opposite proposed to confer on him, should also possess the power of awarding costs.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it seemed to him, that the hon. Member had stated the worst possible reason for objecting to the postponement of this question. The hon. Member asked, what would be the situation of the Committee if the question were postponed? He would ask, what would their situation be, if they shrunk from placing the evidence before the House, till the House had come to a determination on this question. What were the facts? It had been admitted by one of the Members of the Committee, that there was, what he called, an honest perversion of judgment. That hon. Member called it honest; but did he expect, that if it went forth to the public that there had been a perversion of justice, that the public would call it honest? No, they would not. There was, then, a distinct perversion of justice, and he thought that the grossest injustice was done to Mr. Poulter that was ever done to any human being, even upon the statement of a
 482 483
 Mr. O'Connell , too, did not regret a single observation which he had made. He hoped with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that the evidence would be printed. The present proceeding, it was true, was one which courts of justice might take, and a resort to which was formerly familiar to them. But when were courts of justice most in the habit of doing so? Why, when the judges were the most corrupt. The right hon. Baronet opposite, the Member for Tamworth, said that hon. Members were compelled to serve on Committess and were forced to come down to the ballot. Why, was there one of them who did not receive a ticket from that respectable gentleman called "the whipper-in," or from the Carlton Club? But then, it was said, that Members at the ministerial side of the House came down in the same way. They did, it was true; but then, they had not the hypocrisy to
 497
 An hon. Member  said, that if Mr. Poulter were called to the bar of the House, he would either retract or re-assert what he had said. Now, in the latter case, what course was the House prepared to take? That course he thought ought to be determined on before the Committee proceeded to call Mr. Poulter before it.
 Lord Stanley  thought, it was a most objectionable course to attempt to couple the question of the publication of the evidence taken before the Shaftesbury Committee with that now before the House. That question was not whether the Select Committee should be put upon their trial for the votes they had given, or the decisions they had come to, or whether they had adjudicated upon this or that point of law in the manner that a Committee of lawyers would have decided it; but the question was, whether a gentleman, with an adverse decision of the House of Commons against him, should, with perfect impunity, be entitled, without any reference to the merits of the case, to charge the Members of an election Committee, not with having given an erroneous judgment, or an illegal decision, but with having been influenced by personal corruption in the exercise of their judicial functions? That was the question, and the only one before the House and before they came to any vote upon it, he really should wish, that in this, its real point of view, it should be represented by the Speaker to Mr. Poulter. He was the more anxious that this course should be taken, because in the speech Mr. Poulter had already delivered at the bar, it struck
 507
 Mr. Villiers  said, that there was one passage in the speech of the hon. Gentleman at the bar which could not be overlooked—that he was ready to prove that the sitting Member had stated to a friend or agent that he should never have continued the contest after the first day but for the constitution of the Committee.
 Colonel Wood  could not help concurring in the observations of the hon. Member for Southwark, and he wished, if it were consistent with the forms of the House, that they should permit Mr. Poulter to be recalled to the bar, and for the questions suggested by the noble Lord to be put to him by the Speaker. He believed that Mr. Poulter was anxious to cast no personal imputation on any individual, and if he remained of the opinion he had before expressed, he (Colonel Wood) thought it a fair case for inquiry, and that the House would be justified in waiting until the evidence given to the Committee could be placed before them. He thought Mr. Poulter should be recalled to the bar, and it was his hope and belief, that the questions would be satisfactorily answered.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not understand the distinction drawn by the hon. and learned Member, between the expressions "political bias," and "political motives." He thought it a very fine distinction. He imagined that the source of motives was bias. Supposing the motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite to be carried, he should be glad to know what would be gained by such a whitewashing of the Committee? Mr. Poulter asked them, before they declared his assertions to be false, to give him an opportunity of proving that the agent of the petitioner declared, that had not political bias existed in the Committee to a very great numerical extent, he would have abandoned his case. Was not that a fact which Mr. Poulter should be allowed an opportunity of proving, if he could? Mr. Poulter also said, "Let the evidence taken before the Committee be produced and read by my political opponents of the highest class; and if they afterwards think that I am wrong, I will apologise." Why were hon. Gentlemen so anxious to vote a statement false, which Mr. Poulter said, he could prove to be true? Do not let it go forth to the public that they shrank from an investigation of the evidence. What signified it that hon. Gentlemen cried out "No," if the public came to a contrary conclusion? The present proceeding was a vain attempt to throw a veil over the conduct of Election Committees, which was condemned by all parties in language of the strongest nature. Both Whig and Tory Committees were accused of corruption by the different parties; and now hon. Gentlemen fancied they could get rid of these mutual recriminations, by voting themselves the purest of human beings.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved the adjournment of the debate to next Monday.
 Captain Wood , although he had not voted on the former division, would be most happy now to vote for adding the name of the hon. and learned Member to the Committee; but if the hon. Member took his advice, he would not consent to be placed on so fruitless and unjust an inquiry.
 Colonel Davies  must object to summoning Mr. Poulter to the bar. Did the hon. Member for Wallingford expect that Mr. Poulter would retract there all that he had said in his letter? He felt no hesitation in saying, that the letter at first sight appeared most intemperate, but hon. Members ought to consider what grounds there might be for writing such a letter; it might be seen, when they recollected that the hon. Member for Roxburghshire (Mr. Elliot) had declared that five or six voters had been struck off the poll on the evidence of a perjured witness, and that the Committee, when requested, refused to re-examine these cases. The statement respecting treating had been in like manner made and never contradicted; so that he was quite astonished at the course pursued by hon. Members opposite: he thought they ought to rejoice at having an opportunity afforded them of contradicting such allegations as these. When so much was said of the character of that House, were hon. Members aware of a letter which had appeared in  The Times To the Editor of The Times. "Sir,—Having been present in my place yesterday at the extraordinary scene which preceded the ballot for the Wicklow Committee, and finding no mention of my name in your list of the minority, in which I had the satisfaction of voting, I shall feel extremely obliged by your rectifying the mistake in your next
 488 "68, Mount-street, April 6. "ROBERT PIGOT.
 Mr. Langdale  expressed his sincere
 512 Frazer's Magazine,
 Lord Worsley  also thought it was in his power to quote from a public print some expressions applied to Election Committees, equally censurable with those used by Mr. Poulter. He found it stated in one of the public newspapers, that the effect of the proposed bill for the settlement of controverted elections would be to make Election Committees less infamous than they were at present. Now, if Mr. Poulter was to be punished, he thought that in fairness such language should not pass unnoticed.
 Mr. Elliot  regretted, that the words introduced into the motion were so harsh, though he had in his address to the House on a former night shown how little he participated in the expressions which Mr. Poulter had used, and that he had no feeling whatever in common with them. He was satisfied, however, that Mr. Poulter had used them from his honest conviction that his own opinion was right, that he felt himself ill used, and that he was the subject of great injustice. But Mr. Poulter had been misled by what had occurred upon the Committee, and the course he had taken had been the result of this misapprehension; at the same time, in justice to Mr. Poulter and the Members of the Committee who were opposed to him in opinion, he felt bound to refer to what he had stated on a former evening. With respect to the adjournment of the Com-
 510
 Lord Henniker  protested strenuously against an observation which had fallen from an hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, to the effect that if Mr. Poulter had been a Tory he would be still the sitting Member for Shaftesbury. Sitting upon that Committee the solemn oath which he had taken at the table of the House was always present to his mind. He felt it needless for him to repudiate the insinuation which had been thrown out. He did not regret a single act which he supported in that Committee; he did not regret a single observation which he had made. He trusted that the evidence would bear out what the Committee had done, and that the House would give him credit for having acted an honest part.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had asked whether it were meant to cast any reflection on the conduct of his noble and learned Friend, the present Lord Chancellor, for having given a decision, and committed an individual in a case in which he (the Lord Chancellor) himself was the party attacked; and the right hon. and learned Gentleman had also asked whether the Court of Chancery ought to have greater protection than the House of Commons? Now, to those questions he would give this answer—that whatever might be the political opinions of the learned judges who presided in our courts, he thought the due protection of those might be safely left to their own discretion and judgment; but he thought the case was very different when a popular assembly came to decide as judges on matters in which they were parties interested. The House remembered the case in which the hon. Baronet, the Member for North Wiltshire, had been committed to the Tower. That was a decision in which the House was at once the party complaining and the judge. No doubt the House acted honestly in the expression of its opinion on that occasion, but he doubted much whether the right hon. and learned Gentleman would like to see the precedent acted upon.
 Lord John Russell  could not let the question go to a vote without saying a few words upon it, though he found it impossible to agree with the great part of those who had spoken in the debate, whether on that or on the Opposition side of the House. He did think, that these questions ought not to be entered upon. He did entertain the opinion that into allegations against persons, and affecting their political opinions, it was discreet and wise in the House not to enter. With respect to what the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wynn) had asked, as to whether it were not right to vindicate the Members of these Committees from personal imputations, he must say, that he did think that a very great distinction was to be made between charges of this nature, when made against particular persons, and when made, as in the present case, against bodies of men. If it were to be alleged against any individual Member of the House, that he had dealt fraudulently in respect of a certain sum of money, in that case he thought that the person making such a charge as that ought to be brought to the bar, and that the House should take measures to vindicate the character of its member. But when they knew that political charges of this kind had been repeatedly carried beyond the bounds of moderation, and that what by some was called biassed conduct, by others was termed profligate and corrupt, and that such language was every day applied to their Committees without notice, then he did think that they ought not to go on with the present proceeding. And he must make another distinction between punishments inflicted by the authority of the House, a popular body, and punishments by the judges sitting in the courts of justice; for he had no fear that the judges of the land would carry too far that discretionary power with which they were invested by the Constitution, and by law for the maintenance of the authority and jurisdiction of their courts, the respect due to which they were bound to exact and to maintain for the interests of justice, and in
 491 The Times 492
 Lord John Russell  must say, that the great eagerness shown by hon. Gentlemen to come to a vote on a personal question like the present, was no conclusive proof that they would act in the most solemn and deliberative manner. He could vote
 515 Rivals, 516
 Lord J. Russell  moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Slavery Act Amendment Bill.
 Lord John Russell  said, that he should object to the clause on the grounds which he had before stated when a similar provision was proposed. He considered, that the clause, if agreed to, would carry into effect the principle of out-door relief by the guardians, and he was of opinion that it would be far safer that this Bill should not sanction that principle. The system in England could not be properly carried into effect without great difficulty, and in Ireland its operation would produce still greater abuses. The reasons for which he was of opinion, that the clause should be opposed had already been exceedingly well stated to the House by an hon. Member when a similar proposition was formerly made; but he thought that the strongest ground was, that those should pay the wages of the poor by whom the fruits of their labours were enjoyed, and it would be found that this principle would speedily be acted upon, for when a man found that he was paying for the support of an able-bodied labourer in the workhouse, he would rather employ him and obtain the benefit of his services. But if the board of guardians were to have the power of employing labourers, although in this country particular circumstances rendered such a course necessary, a most dangerous principle would be introduced into a new law, the omission of which would be much safer.
 Mr. Hawes  thought the House had arrived at the worst period of its history, and that the decision which the House had just come to, was one which was calculated to put an end to all freedom of discussion. It was an indication that the Members of that House were influenced by political bias. He did say, that the House had come to its decision from political motives. Gentlemen had come down to the House biassed, and prepared to vote. But if they were to declare, that an imputation had been cast on the Members of the Committee, or on the majority of the Committee, because it had been said, that several of those Members, had acted from political motives, and that statement was to be considered a breach of the privileges of that House, such a decision would not only be fatal to the freedom of debate in that House, but to the freedom of discussion out of the House.
 Mr. Hawes  had certainly seen the circular of the Chancellor of the Exchequer which had been alluded to: he had read it in the public papers. He concurred with the opinion which had been expressed, that this was not the time to touch upon the points of difference which might or might not exist in the minds of Members of the Committee; but being a member of the Committee, he must say, that the inquiry had been conducted with perfect fairness, and that all the information
 535
 Mr. C. Buller  presented a petition from 5,000 inhabitants of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land, praying that representative assemblies might be granted to those colonies. His hon. Friend, the Under Secretary for the Colonial Department, had announced on a former day that it was the intention of Government to bring in a bill for the permanent settlement of the constitutions of both those colonies. The questions which he wished to put to his hon Friend were, first, whether the Government had made up its mind as to the principles of the bills which they would introduce for that purpose; and secondly, whether their plan was one which would include the granting of representative assemblies to New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that if it were really true, as some Gentlemen were extremely anxious to impress upon the House and the country, that the House, collectively, in Committees, and individually, was grossly corrupt, as some persons seemed to wish to impute to them, both collectively, in Committees, and individually, he owned he was greatly perplexed to reconcile this opinion with the great efforts and sacrifices Gentlemen were making on all sides to have the honour of a seat within those walls. He could not but think that the amendment was, at all events, premature, and unjust towards Mr. Poulter. Let that gentleman appear at the bar, and if he then stated that it was impossible for him to substantiate his charge, as put forth in his letter, until the evidence was before the House, that might be a suggestion
 486 487
 Mr. Harvey  owned, that it was with no inconsiderable regret that he referred, even for a moment, to the subject of the Pension-list inquiry; because the manner in which his repeated efforts to bring those pensions fairly and dispassionately under the consideration of the Committee were defeated, and the manner in which that Committee was taken out of his hands had excited the strongest feelings within him. These feelings led him to refer to the subject with a great deal of pain; at the same time he thought it was due to those who had taken an interest in this question, both in and out of the House, that something more than the brief statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer should be made on the part of her Majesty's Government, to justify the course now proposed, more especially when it was recollected that the Chancellor of the Exchequer engaged, when the subject was formerly under consideration, that no further grant of pensions should be made until the Committee should have made a report in reference to the claims of these parties. He owned he was surprised that so much time should have been allowed to pass away before any report whatever was made to the House; but when the Committee recently applied for permission to
 528 529 l. l. 530 l. 531
 Mr. Harvey  hoped it would turn out
 508
 Mr. Maclean  was not astonished at the expression of the hon. Member for Middlesex. Hon. Members on the opposition side of the House had always thought that the inquiry was not proper, and that it would be fruitless, and their opinion had been strikingly borne out by the four months which had passed without any useful result.
 Mr. Baines  said, it seemed to him that hon. Members opposite, were requiring from Mr. Poulter a concession which he had already made. Mr. Poulter had retracted the imputation of personal corruption, and yet hon. Members were not satisfied with that concession, which they professed to be all they asked for. The hon. and learned Member for Ripon had admitted, that there was a political bias in the Election Committees, and that was what Mr. Poulter said. [" No, no! No, no!
 Sir E. Sugden  did not deny, that he had said, there existed a bias in the minds of the Members of Election Committees, which they found it difficult to relieve themselves from, and he sincerely wished he could conscientiously regard the language used by Mr. Poulter as having the
 514
 Sir E. Sugden  thought, that any one who was a friend to Mr. Poulter would, instead of bringing him up to the bar of the House, advise him to admit, that in a moment of anger and excitement he had been inadvertently led into saying what his cooler moments taught him to condemn. No one was acting as a true friend to Mr. Poulter who endeavoured, by his observations, to prevent Mr. Poulter from taking that course which his own reflection would show him was the proper one, and which he probably would take if not goaded on by the officiousness of so-called friends. Hon. Gentlemen opposite had contended that this was only a constructive breach of privilege, and that the House of Commons ought not to notice it, because the high courts of justice in Westminster-hall, if such an offence were committed against themselves, would not interfere. Did the hon. Member forget what had taken place only a few months ago, when an hon. Member of that House (Mr. Charlton, the Member for Ludlow) was fined and imprisoned by the present Lord Chancellor for a constructive contempt of court? He did not find fault with the Court of Chancery for that; he merely mentioned it as an instance which had recently occurred, and which the hon. Member, who had gone back several years, did not appear to be aware of. The fine and imprisonment were ordered by a Whig Lord, a member of the present Cabinet. Did the noble Lord mean to cast a stigma upon the Lord Chancellor? Did he mean to say that the Court of Chancery stood in need of greater protection than the House of Commons? If they looked to the letter, which he deeply regretted that Mr. Poulter had been induced to publish, they would see that he spoke only of a particular section of the Committee, Suppose
 498 innuendo
 Mr. Goulburn  was satisfied with the vote which the chairman held in his hands, and he was so without any alteration of the opinion which he had formerly expressed: to that opinion he still adhered; but when the labours of the Committee had terminated, it would be the proper time to discuss its conduct. The discussion that evening seemed to be entirely confined to complimenting the Chancellor of the Exchequer, by Gentlemen who, sitting three days a week with him, were well able to judge of his good qualities; and another part had been devoted to complimenting the hon. and learned Member for Southwark. Whether the right hon. Gentleman, or the hon. and learned Member would accept the compliment, it it was not for him to determine; but of course the hon. and learned Member must be extremely flattered with the universal regret at his absence from a Committee
 538
 Mr. Warburton  could only again express his wish that the hon. Member for Southwark would give his consent to act on the Committee, if chosen, for he was sure that, if he would consent to act, a large majority, if not the unanimous vote, of the House would agree to place his name upon it, and he was convinced that a report wanting the sanction of the name of the hon. and learned Member would not be satisfactory to the public in general.
 Mr. Warburton  moved the previous question.
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion that the breach of privilege complained of was not a direct interference with the business of the House or the performance of its ordinary functions, but was merely a constructive breach of privilege. If Mr. Poulter did anything which interfered with the business of the House, the House, for its own protection, might and ought to interfere. He begged to ask the question whether an indictment for libel might not be preferred against Mr. Poulter in the Court of Queen's Bench? If that were so, and the Committee felt themselves aggrieved, they had the redress in their own hands, and why should the House interfere to protect them by the present proceeding? The argument of the right hon. Baronet opposite, the Member for Tamworth, went entirely upon the supposition that there was no other mode of defending the character of the House or of vindicating its privileges, whereas there was another and a better mode,—namely, by bringing an indictment for libel in the Court of Queen's Bench.
 The Speaker : Mr. Poulter, I am desired to acquaint you that, by a recent decision of this House, a letter, purporting to be addressed by you to the electors of Shaftesbury, and transmitted for insertion in the  Morning Chronicle, "An unprincipled combination, to which I have been for some time exposed, has been but too successful. A petition, which under ordinary circumstances, and with a fair Committee, might probably have been found frivolous and vexatious, has, by the effect of mere chance, been enabled to call to its assistance the services of the most corrupt majority of a Committee that ever degraded the administration of justice and the name of the Commons of England. The consequence has been, that I have ceased to be your representative in Parliament. The printing of the evidence by the order of the House will, I trust, exhibit to you and to the world the full particulars of this most flagrant and wicked case. The conduct of a revising barrister of the name of Graves, in neither giving the overseer of Stower Provost an entire day for bringing in his list, nor adjourning (as it was his duty to have done) in such a manner as to prevent even the most trivial and technical objection being raised, was the first cause of the monstrous injustice which has been inflicted upon me. The Committee having decided this point in my favour, after an elaborate and unanswerable argument, founded upon reason, principle, and justice, as well as precedent, subsequently on the application of the petitioner's counsel, reopened the matter, and ultimately reversed their own solemn decision! The revising barrister a man of long standing at the bar, and of the same politics with the majority of
 500
 The Speaker , having concluded the reading of these passages, said, I am now to ask you, Mr. Poulter, whether you are the writer of that letter, and whether it has been published in the  Morning Chro- 501 nicle
 The Speaker : The learned Gentleman must not allude to what occurred in debates in this House.
 The Speaker  said,—"Mr. Poulter, I have been commanded by the House to put to you a question arising out of the statement which you have already made at the bar. Before I do so, I think I shall best discharge my duty to the House, and I think I shall equally discharge my duty to you, by stating to you what I conceive to be the sense of the House with respect to the present state of this proceeding. The complaint is not that you have urged that the decision of the Committee was in your opinion erroneous, they make no complaint of that, they desire no retraction of that opinion, they consider that you are at liberty to express that opinion so long as you shall entertain it; but the complaint which they do make is, that in stating your opinion that the judgment of the Committee has been erroneous, you have applied to the Members of the Committee expressions of a harsh nature—I use the gentlest expressions—I wish the
 511
 Mr. Poulter  said, that he must continue to assert, that his seat in Parliament had been taken from him by political motives; but in saying this he did not mean to ascribe to the Members of the Committee, any corruption in the sense of pecuniary or base corruption; but he must say, that he should ever regard his seat as taken from him from political causes, and not from any causes founded on justice.
 Mr. Poulter  withdrew.
 Mr. Poulter  was recalled, and on appearing at the bar,
 Mr. Poulter  would not advert to debates, but he might be allowed to refer to a statement which had been made somewhere, as to his having been ill during the election. He would give this answer to that statement, that during the seventeen days that he attended in Shaftesbury, in canvassing, and on matters relating to the election, he had made great personal exertions; sometimes he rode thirty miles a-day, and had never enjoyed better health in his life. What could have been the motive for stating the contrary he was utterly at a loss to guess. He would now call the attention of the House to a few facts connected with the Election Committee, and to some of its decisions. It appeared that
 503 504 505
 Mr. Poulter : Sir, certainly that letter was written by me, and published exclusively by my authority in the  Morning Chronicle, 502 Morning Chronicle,
 Mr. Poulter  called in.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know if the House were to be put in possession of the evidence taken before the Committee. It would be only justice that hon. Members should read the evidence before they decided on the truth or falsehood of the charges.
 Mr. Hume  doubted very much whether either of the motions could fitly be entertained by the House. He had on a former occasion deprecated proceeding against the hon. Member for Dublin, and he believed almost all who looked at the result of that affair agreed that it would have been much better if it had not taken place. The motion of the hon. Member for Wallingford interfered with the liberty of the press; it went to repress public opinion, and to diminish the liberty of commenting on the proceedings of the House. If they insisted on bringing Mr. Poulter to the bar, they ought to bring there every other man who offended the self-esteem of any Member in the House. They had only to look to the journals of the day to find language much more bold and severe used to characterize the proceedings of the House than Mr. Poulter had ventured to employ; they would find the acts of the Legislature denounced as corrupt, infamous, atrocious, and by every other term of abuse. It was of no consequence whether the signature of the writer was appended to the article or not; the editor of a paper was as much responsible for the articles contained in it as Mr.
 485
 Mr. Hume  said, that the only thing
 534
 Mr. Hume  said, that it must not go forth that four months had passed, and that nothing had been done. This was not the fact; many Members of the Committee had individually made up their minds, though not as a body, and it would only take two days more to finish the first inquiry.
 Mr. Mildmay  would withdraw his amendment with the permission of the House.
 Mr. Mildmay  could not affirm whether the allegations complained of were true or false, but he would suggest to the noble Lord opposite (Lord Stanley) to put the questions proposed into some form, and have them put by the Speaker.
 Mr. Mildmay  explained, that his intention in moving the amendment was, that Mr. Poulter's  ex parte
 Mr. Mildmay  said, he very much objected to entertain this motion at present. In the first place, he did not think it proper for that House to enter into a contest with an individual. He thought, they always came ill out of such a contest, because on all such occasions, the public sympathised rather with the individual, than the mass who were opposed to him. He neither thought this proceeding necessary for the assertion of the dignity of the House, nor likely to have a happy result. He objected, however, on even stronger grounds than these. He had known Mr. Poulter now, a great many years; he was as manly, spirited, firm, and determined a man as any of his acquaintance; and when he brought a serious charge against any individual or any body of men, he was very likely to persevere in it. In what condition, then, did they stand? If Mr. Poulter appeared at the bar, he would endeavour to show, that he had just grounds for the accusation he made, and what would be the result? Mr. Poulter's  ex parte 481
 Mr. P. H. Howard  thought, that the hon. and learned Member had exercised a sound discretion when he brought forward this subject; for, however active the Committee might have been, they had certainly hitherto hid their light under a bushel—the natural result of the mistake of not putting the name of the hon. and learned Member on the Committee. The reason, however, on which the hon. and learned Member was excluded had now ceased, and he thought that the Government could not do better than to add the hon. and learned Member to the Committee; and he was sure that such a proposition would meet with the general assent of the House. He thought that an injustice was done when they superseded the labours which the hon. Member had bestowed upon the question, and when the hon. Member, who had sown the seed was not permitted to reap the
 536
 Mr. Poulett Scrope  rose to move the introduction of a clause enabling boards of guardians to give relief to able-bodied paupers, by employing them on public works. He had refrained from interfering at an earlier period to move the introduction of the clause which he now proposed, from a wish to see the Poor-law adopted, for he was of opinion that any Poor-law for Ireland, in whatever shape it might be, would be most beneficial for that country. With regard to the measure now before the House, he was of opinion that it contained the three elements necessary to secure its provisions being properly carried out, and he thought that, the principle of the Bill once adopted, its details would soon be agreed upon. The three elements secured by this Bill were, the establishment of a central board of control; of efficient local machinery in the boards of guardians; and the building of workhouses; without which no Poor-law could work well without abuse. He did not conceive that relief should be confined to that which was given in the workhouses, and if he thought so in reference to England, he was still more so with regard to Ireland, where the mass of destitution was so much greater than in this country. The main difficulty in the present Bill was, that no out-door relief was given, and especially to the able-bodied poor, and the workhouse relief was totally and lamentably insufficient. Mr. Nicholls, in his calculations upon this subject, had, in his opinion, improperly taken the English system as the basis on which he founded his speculations, and it was ascertained, that during the two years for which the law had been in operation, in the 210 unions which had been formed, no less than one-twelfth part of the population of the country, calculated upon the census of 1831, had received relief either in or out of the workhouses. The calculation, however, upon the census of 1831, was inapplicable to the present period, and therefore the probability was, that in reality
 539 "And whereas several works of public utility are being now, or may hereafter be, carried on in Ireland, by, or under the direction of, the board of public works, or of the county or baronial surveyors, and by means, or with the aid of, funds raised by general or local taxation, and that such works may afford the means of employing some of the able-bodied destitute poor of Ireland; be it enacted, that the guardians of any union shall be and are empowered (subject always to the control and directions therein of the Commissioners) to make such arrangements as they may think fitting with the board of works, or with any surveyor, engineer, or contractor, engaged in
 540
 Mr. T. Duncombe  knew not what would be the use of ordering the individual in question to attend the House, if he were not to be called on to appear at the bar. This
 490
 Mr. Redington  then proposed the following in lieu of clause 15, contending that it was most important that the measure should be introduced throughout the country at the same time:—
 "And be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for the Commissioners, and they are hereby required, at one and the same time, by order under their seal, to divide the whole of Ireland into such and so many unions for the relief of the poor as they may think fit, to be styled by such names as they shall in such order direct."
 Mr. Redington  then proposed the following clause:—
 "And be it enacted, that every person begging or gathering alms, or placing himself for the purpose of receiving or gathering alms, or setting any child so to do, within any union in which the Commissioners shall have declared a workhouse to be fit for the reception of destitute poor, shall, on conviction thereof before any justice of the peace at petty sessions in open court, either by confession of such offender, or by the evidence on oath of one or more credible witnesses, be committed to the common gaol or house of correction, there to be kept to hard labour for any time not exceeding one fortnight for the first offence, and not exceeding one calendar month for the second offence: Provided always, that no person shall be liable to be so convicted who shall have applied to be admitted to the workhouse of such union, and been refused admittance thereto by the guardians or other officers of such union workhouse, by reason of their inability to accommodate such person or child; and provided also, that no person shall be so committed to such gaol or house of correction (if it be the first offence), who, not having applied for admission to the workhouse previous to his conviction, shall then express his readiness to enter such workhouse; and no such conviction shall under any circumstances take place unless such workhouse shall at the time be capable of receiving such person."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had only one vote to propose; and it was one which he earnestly hoped would meet with the assent of the House.
 527 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the observation of the hon and gallant Member was singularly misplaced, because the result of the present motion would be, to grant for one quarter the same amount to each individual as had been previously paid; and, in the second place, the observation was most singularly misapplied, when, although the lips of the Committee were sealed, there had been that night several indications of the opinions of individual Members which, so far from being adverse to the pensions generally, were strongly in favour of the claims of justice.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had confined himself to a few observations only in compliance with the wish of the Committee. Whilst the inquiry was pending, the Committee thought it would be the height of injustice on the part of the House, without notice, or without direct censure, to deprive the parties of those pensions which the present vote was intended to pay. He was prepared to justify the Committee for having taken that ground; because, whatever opinion might have been expressed by them in their report would necessarily have been expressed with reference to a partial examination of the subject before them, and that would have given rise to the inference that their future examination would not prove to be accurate. He spoke in the presence of many members of the Pension-list Committee, and he would appeal to them whether the hon. Gentleman was not in error in having suggested that this inquiry was meant by the Government, or by him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) as the Representative of the Government, to be anything like a blind or political cheat? He would put it to his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, to the hon. Member for Lambeth, and to the hon. Member for Derby, who were all members of the Committee, whether he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had not, as far as any one could wish, applied himself to furnishing them with every tittle of evidence that they could require at his hands. He appealed from the hon. Gentleman
 532 primâ facie 533
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, the hon. Baronet did not correctly represent the explanation of Mr. Poulter; who had expressly stated, that he did not attribute pecuniary or base corruption to the Members of the Committee, though he did not retract his assertion that he had lost his seat by reason of their political opinions. It was true, that Mr. Poulter persisted in saying that the Committee was actuated by political motives, but he did not think that a sufficient reason for involving the House in the difficulties which must arise from proceeding further in the matter. He really thought, that the experience, not only of past Parliaments, but of the present also, must have taught them the wisdom of taking advantage—if they could do so without sacrificing the dignity of the House, or the characters of the Members of its Committees, which they were bound to protect—of any just and equitable mode of escaping from the embarrassment of a question like the present.
 Mr. Wakley  differed entirely from the hon. Member for Middlesex as to the injustice of this inquiry, for he believed that a more strictly just inquiry had never been instituted by the House, and he hoped that the report would give satisfaction, not only to the House, but to the public. At the same time he feared that the vote which was asked of them that evening was only an unfavourable omen of the probable result of the ultimate proceeding: he feared that it would be protracted and useless. He cautioned the hon. and learned Member for Southwark
 537
 Mr. Blackstone  said, the language used by the agent for the petitioner, was the consequence of his supposing, that he trusted in the justice of the Committee, and of his confidence that they would admit the evidence of the revising barrister.
 Mr. Blackstone  must say, on behalf of himself and the other Members of the Committee, that the answers of Mr. Poulter had not been sufficient. Mr. Poulter had not said that he considered their judgment erroneous, but still imputed corrupt motives to them.
 Mr. Blackstone , under these circumstances, moved that Mr. Poulter should be recalled to the bar.
 Mr. Blackstone  had so high an opinion of the gentlemanly feeling and the manly bearing of Mr. Poulter, that he had little doubt that, if called to the bar of that House, he would retract the objectionable remarks into which he had been led in his letter. As to what had been said by the hon. Member for Roxburghshire, that the decision of the Committee had been "an honest perversion of judgment," he would only say, that that hon. Member had in the Committee more than once admitted that the questions on which discussions arose, were questions of law which he did not understand. The opinion of that hon. Member, therefore, was not entitled to any very great weight on this subject. The
 499
 Mr. Blackstone  said, that certainly the evidence would be printed and laid before the House, but whatever the House might think of the errors in judgment of the Committee, it surely could not impute corrupt motives to any hon. Members.
 Mr. Blackstone  said, that he had a
 506
 Mr. Blackstone  could not believe, that the hon. Member for Winchester had read the letter of Mr. Poulter. Mr. Poulter had not merely said, that the Shaftesbury Election Committee were deficient in judgment, he had distinctly charged the Members of it with corrupt motives. Supposing the motion of the hon. Member to be agreed to, in what condition would the Members of the Committee be placed? A month or five weeks would be required to print the evidence, during which time, the Members of the Committee, with such an imputation resting on their characters, would hardly dare to show their faces in the House. Would the House consent to let the stigma remain during this time, and thereby proclaim its suspicion that a portion of its Members had been actuated by corrupt motives? No Member of the House was entitled to impute motives to another, and yet Mr. Poulter had not scrupled to accuse the Committee of a flagrant breach of honesty and good faith. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in the motion, which would place those who had been Members of the Committee in a very unpleasant situation.
 Mr. Blackstone  moved, that the Order of the Day be read, directing J. L. Poulter, Esq., and Martin Smith Metcalf, to attend at the bar.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, that the question was not put to the House as a mere breach of privilege. The hon. Member opposite called on them to determine whether the charges were false and scandalous—and when Mr. Poulter appeals to his political adversaries, and prays their attention to the circumstances of the evidence on which he founds his charges he, for one, could not be a party to condemning him unheard. Neither ought the House to be a party to such a decision without knowing further. To afford it this opportunity he would move the adjournment of the debate to this day month.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  must press his amendment.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien , not having had an opportunity of voting on the former division, stated his cordial concurrence in the wish of the hon. Member for Bridport.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  if the noble Lord would move the order of the day, would withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  had much pleasure in supporting the proposition, because it was similar to one which he had himself before introduced, and he was of opinion that it was highly necessary to secure the successful working of the Bill.
 Mr. Praed , amidst continued cries of "Divide," was understood to suggest that the amendment of the noble Lord should be reserved until after the Committee had been vindicated by a vote of the House, and that it should be proposed on the question being put that Mr. Poulter be called up to be censured.
 Sir A. Dalrymple  did not concur in the construction put on the language of Mr. Poulter by the noble Lord. He understood Mr. Poulter to impute, not pecuniary, but political corruption to the Members of the Committee; and for that reason he should vote in favour of the motion.
 Mr. Hall  [amidst cries of "Divide"] said, the hon. Member for Knaresborough had quoted an observation from  Frazer's Magazine, Monthly Law Magazine, 513
 Sir C. Grey  thought that there was considerable force in the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Bridport, considering that the Committee, or court, if he might so call it, for the trial of controverted elections was ap-
 496
 Sir G. Grey  could not enter at that moment into any detailed explanation of the plan intended to be introduced by her Majesty's Government. He would only say, that it was the peculiar circumstances of those colonies that constituted the difficulties which stood in the way of granting them representative Assemblies, and that those circumstances did not exist in any other of our foreign settlements. The plan which the Government intended to introduce would only be provisional, as the vast influx of emigrants, to which those colonies owed so much of their prosperity and resources, would render any other arrangement at present unsatisfactory.
 Sir Robert Bateson  proposed the following clause:—
 "That the majority of the guardians and rate-payers in each parish shall have a power to levy a rate, not to exceed one shilling in the pound on the government survey and valuation, for the support of the aged, the infirm, the lame, the blind, the widow, the orphan, and the really destitute poor, who have been resident in such parish for three years; and that when such voluntary assessment is made, that the Poor-law Commissioners shall have no power over such parish or union of parishes."
 Sir R. Inglis  said, the hon. Member for Roxburghshire had made use of the phrase "honest perversion of judgment." The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had with singular ingenuity omitted the word "honest," and substituted "justice" for "judgment." The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had founded a very triumphant argument on this incorrect representation of the meaning of the hon. Member for Roxburgh. He certainly thought his hon. Friend, the Member for Wallingford, had been betrayed into what might be
 484
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that if he understood the noble Lord rightly, the fair conclusion from the noble Lord's argument, was this—that it shall be competent for any person whatever to prefer any imputation on Members of that House, who might have judicial duties to perform with respect to the manner in which they discharged those duties, and to bring forward charges, no matter how aggravated, of corruption, and still the noble Lord thought that they must trust only to the character of the House, and that the House ought to give notice to individuals that they might libel the House of Commons with perfect impunity; and that though the law gave protection to all who were attacked by the libeller, yet that the House of Commons had nothing to do with scandalous charges that might be brought against its Members. But what was there in the case with which the House had at present to deal? He begged to call attention to what really was the question. Certain Gentlemen became bound to
 493 494 495
 Sir R. Peel  said, he could not vote for the proposition that the present debate should be adjourned for one month, in order that the House might have an opportunity of seeing the evidence printed; because such a motion, if carried, would constitute the House of Commons a tribunal of appeal from Election Committees; and he thought, that after the experience which had been had, of the decisions of the House of Commons previous to the passing of the Grenville Act, no one would be prepared to devolve on the House generally jurisdiction in cases of controverted elections. Then with regard to the original motion before the House, he must say, that he had shared in the desire, which he believed to be a
 517 518
 Mr. Sergeant Wilde  owned that it seemed to him as if the House was going very
 521 522 523 524
 Mr. Williams Wynn  could not agree in the assertion that the present was a vindictive proceeding; its real object was not vindictive, but protective; its object was the assertion of the privileges of the House, and the assertion of that for which all their privileges existed—the preservation of the independence and impartiality of their proceedings and votes. And was it fitting or just to impose upon a certain body of Gentlemen the adjudication of these cases of controverted elections, and then to say to any Gentleman whomsoever, that he was at liberty to impute to any one of those bodies of Gentlemen the crimes of corruption and perjury? Let him ask the hon. and gallant Gentleman who spoke last how he would act under such imputations? How would the noble Lord opposite act? Supposing any man, holding the rank of a gentleman, published in the public newspapers a charge of perjury against any other gentleman, what was the course which the latter would adopt? There were two measures open to him—one, to seek the protection of the law—the other, to take the vindication of his own character into his own hands by answering publicly that his accuser was a calumniator and a liar. Now, in case they
 *The letter in the text refers to the circumstances which occurred with closed doors on striking the ballot for the county of Wicklow on the 5th of April. A discussion took place as to the right of the sitting Members to have a Strike each, in forming the Committee; their opponents stating, that they had only a right to one Strike for both. The House, on a division, decided that the two Members should have a Strike each. This decision was characterised in the letter as "one of the grossest outrages" &c. 489
 Mr. Williams Wynn  must say, that it would not be very consistent with what Mr. Poulter had already stated in his address to the House, for that Gentleman afterwards to say, that whilst he maintained his opinion, he did not mean to impute corruption to any Member of the Committee. He could, however, make every allowance for excitement of feeling, and he hoped that Mr. Poulter would be called in again, and be asked whether, without withdrawing any expressions that he had made as to the erroneous judgment of the Committee, he persisted in his declaration that they had been guilty of corruption?
 Lord Ebrington  felt great difficulty in
 509
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, it was very natural that hon. Members should wish to know how the sums required for present expenditure were to be paid in the present state of the revenue. With respect to the question of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he thought the House ought not to adjourn till they had received a more satisfactory account, in detail, from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman did not like to go into these details; he believed not, and he believed also, that if they had a statement of the real facts of the revenue, it would be found to be in a worse condition than at almost any former period. He thought it was the duty of the right hon. Gentleman to state what were the sources from which he intended to pay this sum of 33,000 1.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  wished the hon. Gentleman had specified more clearly what his question was: but it appeared to him
 546
 Mr. Hume  said, that having seen in the public papers a declaration of Mr. Hyam that the revenue was 665,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  had no wish to enter into the general state of the revenue; all he wished to know was, how, when there was a deficiency of 665,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not now make any objection to the vote, although he thought it was inconsistent with the interests of the public to vote so large a sum for such a purpose, when there was a deficiency in the revenue of no less than
 550 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman had spoken out at first he should have understood him. He now understood that the right hon. Gentleman would borrow from the Bank the amount of the deficiency.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had not received any report of the particular transaction to which the hon. Gentleman referred. In consequence, however, of the conversation that occurred in that House, he had given directions to carry into effect two of the recommendations that had been made. One was the registration of letters, which was a matter of very considerable importance, as the party, by registering the letter, could make the Post-office responsible for its safe delivery. He had also established, as part of the Post-office, a money-order officer, thus enabling the poorer classes to ensure the safe delivery of the smallest sum to the party entitled to receive it. These two recommendations had been already adopted. With respect to the transactions at Glasgow, an immediate inquiry should be instituted.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said,
 549
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was sorry that the hon. Gentleman had asked a question which it would be difficult to answer satisfactorily, without going into more detail than the mere circumstance of the present vote enabled him to do; but, at the same time, if the question remained unanswered, or any doubt was thrown on the subject, he felt that a very great mistake might arise in the public mind. It was perfectly true, as the hon. Member had stated, and indeed it was nothing but repeating what he had stated on a recent occasion, namely, that it was impossible for a great commercial crisis like that through which this country had passed to occur without affecting the public revenue. If, on that account, there was felt ally, even the slightest, mistrust of the national resources of the country—if
 547 548 l. l.
 Sir F. Trench  said, he had a question to ask connected with the deplorable state of the Spital-fields manufacturers, 50,000 of whom were in a state of the deepest distress, and enduring sufferings of the most extraordinary description. He had seen a newspaper of that morning, containing a report of the debates in the French Chamber of Deputies, in which it was stated by M. Martin that the Agricultural Committee had expressed an opinion that it would be necessary to augment the duty upon linen. Now, if the French Government protected their hand-loom weavers, he thought the British Government ought to do the same. The question he wished to put was, whether it was the intention of Government to do anything towards protecting our own manufacturers, and towards mitigating the sufferings of that unfortunate class of the community?
 Mr. Pryme  remarked, that the common law had given protective rights to the literary man, which like other parts of the common law, had grown up by usage. With the common law right he was inclined to rest satisfied. The question this night was this, were they to extend the privilege of the author or owner of the copyright from twenty-eight years to the term of sixty years. The Solicitor-General had asked whether the present security and protection afforded by law was not sufficient for the encouragement of literature and all useful purposes? In corroboration of the opinion conveyed by this interrogatory, he would remind the House that even the hon. and learned Mover himself had admitted, that the price of books, and the remuneration of literary labour had decreased since the protection had been extended from fourteen years to twenty-eight years. And he would ask, was it  propter hoc quoad hoc 575
 Mr. D'Israeli  said, that he had always been taught to believe, that monopoly was a privilege for exclusive sale, when there might be great competition, and copyright was a privilege of holding that which, but for this principle, might be sold by any one. Every circumstance which had been brought forward as significant of monopoly in capital was a characteristic of property; and it would be right to consider in the present question what kind and degree of property was to be acknowledged. They were works requiring great learning, great industry, great labour, and great capital in their preparation. They assumed a palpable form. They might fill warehouses with them, and freight ships; and in his mind they constituted a species of property better than any other. The tenure of that property was not fictitious; it was primitive; it was the most natural and the least liable to be disputed. It was a tenure by creation; and what he objected to was, that such a tenure should become in any way compromised. When the hon.
 576 577 578 l. l. 579 580
 Mr. Jervis  said, that he should recommend his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Reading, before he persisted in pressing forward his measure, to consider well the suggestion thrown out by the learned Attorney-General; and he should Feel bound, if he did not do so, with great relutance to vote against the second reading of the bill. The House, in considering any measure which was proposed to be adopted, ought not to reason by what had already taken place for what might occur in future, and should not draw inferences that similar events would occur at a future time. It was admitted that before the case of Miller  v. 590
 Mr. Jervis  considered that the bill presented so many legal difficulties, that it would be utterly impossible to get through it in a Committee of the whole House. He therefore was decidedly of opinion that it should be referred to the consideration of a Committee up-stairs.
 Sir E. Sugden  thought, that the House was already in perfect possession of the evidence. The facts were known, the law was known, and the bearings of the entire question were already known to the House. They were, in his mind, perfectly prepared to proceed without further inquiry.
 Sir E. Sugden  would say a few words on the ground on which he intended to oppose the Bill. He could not agree with the learned Attorney-General in the opinion which he had expressed, and the plan which he had proposed; for he thought that however advantageous the principle might be in certain cases of mechanical inventions, it would be impossible to carry it into effect as to literary and political works, with a due consideration to the rights of all parties. He regretted, however, that it was on strong grounds that he must oppose this Bill. If he were to look to his own interests, small as they were, he should perhaps support it; but he could not help thinking that copyright however valuable it might be, partook in its nature of a public right, it became valuable only through the medium of the public, and, therefore, at some time or other the public ought to reap their share of the benefits conferred by it. In fact, the question was only one of degree. It had been treated as a question of abstract right, but it should not be forgotten that at present copyright depended upon the statute law. If the statute law had created a perpetuity for copyright, he should vote for reducing it to a shorter term, because such a law would not be for the benefit of the public, and at the same time he thought he might venture to say that it would not be of any additional advantage to the author, as he would not get 5 s. 591
 Mr. Grote  felt it his duty to oppose the second reading of this Bill, and he would shortly state the grounds upon which he did so, and with a view to what interest it was that his object was confined. There had been a good deal of argument upon the fact, that the principal petitions against the Bill had been presented from publishers, printers, and booksellers. He wished to state distinctly that his opposition was not founded upon any peculiar sympathy for either of those three classes; but most distinctly and exclu-
 585 586
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the remark which had been made, that the opposition to this bill had been originated by interested parties, was of little moment, inasmuch as the opposition to all bad measures must naturally proceed in the first instance from interested individuals. For his part he considered this to be a most pernicious bill, looking at the effects which it must of necessity produce upon the general prosperity and character of the literature of the country. He felt persuaded, that it would do more injury to literature and to literary men than it could possibly be productive of good. The noble Lord who had just sat down had contended, that great good was likely to arise from this bill from the circumstance that authors would be persuaded to forego the ephemeral prospect of writing popular works calculated to secure a large immediate price from the publisher, and would be encouraged in the production of more elaborate and carefully written works by the additional security furnished by the bill; but he (Mr. Warburton) did not think that any legislative scheme would be likely to counteract the natural bias of meritorious authors towards legitimate fame. Such authors, he believed, would ever be actuated by the old principle,  volitare per ora virum. 594 vice versa
 Mr. Warburton  was not of opinion that the motion of the hon. Member for Carlisle amounted to unfair opposition. He would, however, rather urge his objections to the bill in a committee of the whole House than in a Select Committee up-stairs.
 Mr. E. Tennent,  though decidedly in favour of the measure, would unquestionably vote for a Select Committee, as the best mode by which they could make the bill both perfect and palatable.
 Mr. Hume  was also of opinion that it was a proper question to refer to a Committee up-stairs. All that he was de-
 596
 Mr. Hume  observed, that in his opinion the simple question for the House to consider was, whether a copyright of twenty-eight years' duration was a sufficient privilege to induce an author to devote his
 568 569
 Mr. P. Howard  moved as an amendment that the bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 Mr. Milnes  was understood to say, that after the able speeches which had been delivered in favour of the measure now before the House, there was little left for him to say. He could not, however, give a silent vote on this important subject, and he trusted the House would indulge him a few moments while he stated the reasons which induced him to support the Bill now under consideration. In his opinion there was no species of property so little protected as that of the author, and surely some amendment of the laws affecting literary property was called for, in order to render that property more valuable
 581
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was very reluctant to give a silent vote in support of the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend, in consequence of so much opposition to it having come from Gentlemen in whose opinions he generally concurred. The debate had been opened to a considerable extent by his hon. and learned Friend, the Solicitor-General, in whose judgment he generally placed great reliance. If he could adopt the views of his hon. and learned Friend, and the observations which had fallen from other hon. Gentlemen, he should certainly be prepared to go much farther than they appeared willing to go. For, if their arguments were correct, they ought to follow them up by a repeal of the existing law of copyright altogether. His hon. Friend, the Member for Sheffield, contended, that there was no property in literature; if not, how could he, or those who agreed with him in opinion, defend the law now on the statute book? The argument of his hon. Friend was, there was no property in the literary productions of the mind beyond what was the creation of the law. Why, all property was the creation of the law. The principle of all property resolved itself into a principle of general usefulness to society. Property of every kind was the creation of the law justified by the principle of usefulness. If, then, there
 582 583 A Member: 584
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  rose to move the second reading of the Copyright Bill, and spoke to the following effect: * * 556 557 558 559 560 561 562 563 564 565 566 567
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  said, that this was a proposition to which he could by no means accede.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  thanked his hon. and learned Friend, the Attorney-General, for his suggestion, which was one, however, that he had as yet not had time to consider. He might be inclined in the mean time to doubt whether the legal studies of the members of the Judicial Committee would exactly fit them for the proposed duty. He had heard with some surprise the morality of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor-General, who was anxious to give the interests of society so marked a preference over those of individual authors. It was surely unfair to take advantage of that noble and honourable impulse which induced authors to publish—not any love of sordid gain—but a legitimate thirst after glory, and a praiseworthy desire to diffuse the sentiments which sprung from their own hearts, and make to such men the most ungrateful possible return, affixing to the result of their labours the lowest possible scale of remuneration, and visiting upon their children the effect of their gifted parents' zeal for publication.
 Mr. Ward  looked on the right of property in literary works as fictitious, and considered the House bound to ask how far they were likely to extend benefit to the public by such a measure as the present before they gave it their sanction. If any sufficient proof had been brought forward, showing that there was not sufficient encouragement to literary men, then there would have been some plea for introducing the present Bill: but, on the contrary, he would appeal to every hon. Member present, whether at any period of our history literary labour was so well paid for as at present? If then, under these circumstances, they found that the Bill before the House created a monopoly, and that it would operate injuriously to the public, they would act improperly in allowing it to pass. It was upon the broad principle that they had no right to tax the public for the benefit of the authors, that he oppsed the Bill; and conceiving that there were clauses in the measure tending to prevent the publication of all literary works useful to the middling classes, tending to prevent the publication of all books of extracts, a class of works which were largely circulated, and conceiving that there were great difficulties in the way of the measure, he would give his vote against the second reading.
 The Attorney-General  said, that he should oppose the motion, because, even if all the allegations of the petition were true, it was not a case for the interference of the House. He did not wish that the ends of justice should be defeated; so far from it: and if the party in question had absconded for the purpose of defeating an
 553
 The Attorney-General  felt bound td offer some observations on the bill of the hon. and learned Member, to which he must give his opposition. In one of the petitions which he had had the honour to present from the City of Edinburgh, it was stated, that when the statute the 8th of Anne, passed into a law, there were only two printing presses engaged in that city, while there were now sixty, at which no less than 8,000 men were employed; and, notwithstanding these facts being represented, yet the system as it at present existed was objected to, although it had produced the beneficial effects which were pointed out. He was prepared to admit, that there were instances in which it was necessary to extend some additional reward to literary men; but he would ask whether the House would content itself with legislating for those rare and uncommon instances by altering the whole existing system? He would point out the plan which suggested itself to his mind as being a just and proper one. In the case of the Patent Act, since the law had been passed four years ago, he had been called upon, in his office of Attorney-General, by the Privy Council, to investigate cases in which it should be proper that an extension of patents should be granted, and, in the course of that inquiry, it was found that there were cases in which the extension he referred to might with justice be granted, the patents being of so valuable a character as to entitle the parties to such an additional advantage. Might not the same course be adopted in the present case, and would not Mr. Wordsworth then be fully rewarded for the labours which he had undergone; and might not the heirs of Sir Walter Scott be placed in a situation in which they might enjoy the benefit of his works; and might not Abbotsford then still remain in them as their property? He saw no objection at all to such a course being adopted, and he should try to recommend some such plan to the consideration of the hon. and learned Member for Reading, whose bill it was his painful duty to oppose. The hon. Member for London had already referred to the evil effects which might be
 587
 The Attorney-General  said, that he did not propose to vest the discretion of which he had spoken in the Privy Council, but in the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which was composed of the judges of the law, who would doubtless exercise their functions without reference to party.
 The Attorney-General  said, that although he had opposed the second reading of the bill, he could not consent to the present proposition, which he considered to be an unfair way of getting rid of the measure. For his part, he considered that its details would be much more advantageously discussed in a Committee of the whole House.
 Sir Robert Inglis  supported the Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman ought to have shown, he said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman could, that literary property was not just as much protected by the common law as any other description of property. The question, indeed, in his opinion was, if literary property had not been injured by the Act which was called an Act for its protection; and whether we ought not to revert to that which was originally the case, and give to an author that property in his literary productions which was enjoyed by every other person in any possession that he enjoyed. At least, the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to have shewn why twenty-eight years was the limit of protection beyond which the Legislature ought not to go. As to the price of books, it should be recollected, that the purchase of books was a voluntary act; and that no author would ever charge a higher price for his books than he found the public disposed readily to pay. Could it be conceived that any author would retain his works in his own possession rather than let them go forth to the public at a reasonable rate? Would any of the great writers of the last century, or would any of their descendants, if the property in the works of their progenitors had remained in them, have so acted? What was the object of the Bill proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman? In his opinion, the Bill did not go far enough, for he was desirous that the original right, common to literary as to other property, should be restored, and that an author should hold his copyright in perpetuity. He could understand why no copyright should be created; but he could not understand why it should be limited to twenty-eight years, or to any other definite
 572 Comus 573 574
 The Solicitor General  was anxious to say a very few words, for the purpose of explaining the reasons which compelled him to support the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and to oppose the motion of his hon. and learned Friend. He took this course with great reluctance, because he could not but feel, that it was a subject with which his hon. and learned Friend had taken great pains; and that it was a subject which his hon. and learned Friend was peculiarly well adapted to deal with. He would, however, very shortly state to the House his reasons for opposing the measure. In the first place he disputed the principle which his hon. and learned Friend had so eloquently endeavoured to enforce. He could not but think that his hon. and learned Friend was asking the Legislature, by acting on a sort of sentimental feeling, to take a course which, in his opinion, they would fail in their duty if they were really to take. There was only one question to be asked. Was the present term of copyright sufficient effectually to secure to an author himself the benefit which he ought to derive from the exercise of his talents? If so, then why extend it? It might be a pleasing thing to contemplate the extension of the benefit to the posterity of an author. But it was impossible so to extend it without doing a great and manifest injustice to the public. He was quite ready to admit, that authors of genius should have all that they were entitled to ask. But if they already got enough to secure the devotion of their powers to the public, why adopt a measure by which the public must be so materially injured? All unnecessary taxation was to be deprecated; and what tax could possibly be more injurious than a tax on that knowledge which they were all so desirous to diffuse? He repeated, that the only question was, is the present term of copyright sufficient for all beneficial purposes? If his hon. and learned Friend had argued the subject in the Court of King's Bench as he had argued it in that House, it would have been said of him that he had committed a logical  felo de se. 571
 Mr. W. Wynn  said, he could not see how the sitting Members could be prejudiced by the course he had proposed more than by that suggested by the Attorney-General. He should only propose to postpone the ballot for one week, and in the mean while to make an order for the attendance of Mr. Barth, who would be bound to take notice of it, as every body was, of orders of this House published in their votes; and then, if Mr. Barth did not attend to that order, steps might be taken to take him into custody or to offer a reward for his apprehension. With respect to the objection of the Attorney-General that there were no precedents for this proceeding, he believed, that the reason was, that such an occurrence as that which this petition detailed had never taken place before. But there were many occasions upon which the House had postponed the ballots upon election petitions, and upon much more frivolous grounds than the present. Cases had occurred of ballots being postponed because counsel employed upon them were absent on circuit. He should, therefore, persist in his motion.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  always entertained the greatest respect for the legal opinions of the hon. and learned Attorney-General, but he must differ from what he understood him to have said, that the law as it now stood had existed since the statute of the 8th of Anne. It appeared to him that that was the effect of the hon. and learned Gentleman's observations, but every literary man who was acquainted with the history of the country knew that copyright was enjoyed in perpetuity after that, and that it was not limited by the act of Anne until a decision which subsequently took place. If it were right that authors should have an increased compensation, he had no hesitation in saying, that the adoption of that course would increase the price of the book. The system proposed, would apply to all classes of books, as well to those of a superior quality as to books which were of a description calculated to minister to the bad taste and bad feelings of the people. The copyright in books of such a class was of no value, but the reason for which he was willing to extend the law was for the protection of those works which always met with the public approbation, and to which, although they might not suit the taste of the public at the time
 588 bonâ fide 589
 Mr. Williams Wynn  said, a petition had been put into his hands to present to the House upon a subject of very great importance, and to which he begged the attention of the House, as the subject required an immediate answer. The petition was from Mr. Thomas Baker, the agent for the petition against the return for Great Yarmouth, and the statement of the petitioner was as follows:—That on the 17th of the present month (April) he went to the office of Mr. Barth, the mayor, and the returning officer, for the purpose of serving him with the order for the production of all the books connected with the late election. On inquiry at that office he was told that Mr. Barth had left Yarmouth that morning at six o'clock, and would not be back before the following day. On the following day he again called at the office, and was informed that Mr. Barth had not yet returned, and that it was supposed he was gone to London. The petitioner then went to the dwelling-house of Mr. Barth, where he saw Mrs. Barth, whom he informed that his object was to deliver an order for the production of the books relating to the late election. Mrs. Barth then informed the petitioner that the books in question were not there, and that she did not know where Mr. Barth was, and referred the petitioner to her son, who was a practising attorney. The petitioner then went to Mr. Samuel Jeffery Barth, who said that he could not assist him, that he
 552
 Lord Mahon  must certainly differ from his right hon. Friend. With his hon. and learned Friend who had introduced the bill, emolument might be no consideration; but he would put it to the House whether there were not cases of men with literary talents, perhaps superior, but who had not means and no professional talents like the hon. and learned Member, to render them independent? To such men he thought they were bound to secure pecuniary advantages, and he would therefore support this Bill. If he could persuade himself that the matter was merely a question between author and publisher, he might, perhaps, come to a different conclusion; but he could not, as he was firmly convinced that the public in general had a deep interest in the welfare of literary men. He thought it was a melancholy thing to see eminent writers destitute of common comforts, and reduced to a servile dependence on the great, or to the necessity of sacrificing their own better taste to the prevailing fashion of the day.
 592
 Mr. Willshere  said, that he begged to call the attention of the House to a discussion which had taken place yesterday evening, connected with the Great Yarmouth election. A petition had been presented by a right hon. Gentleman opposite, from Mr. Baker, the agent of the petitioners against the return, in which it was alleged, that Mr. Barth, the mayor, and returning officer, had absented himself with the poll-books, in order to defeat the case of the petitioners. Now to his (the hon. Member's) astonishment, the first person whom he met this evening, on coming to the House, was Mr. Barth himself, who assured him that he had had no intention to evade the order of the House. To his own knowledge, Mr. Barth was very largely engaged in business all over the country, and obliged, in consequence, to pass very suddenly from one place to another; but he was quite convinced that Mr. Barth would be the last person to do anything in the slightest way dishonourable, or tending to defeat the course of justice.
 Mr. Williams  said, that the proposed arrangement would interfere with a subject of great importance which he had on the papers.
 Mr. S. Lefevre,  in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, felt it his duty to state to the House, that it was not his intention to propose, that the Committee which he asked for, should revise all the standing orders of the House. The Committee which had sat last Session, had gone over the whole of them, and introduced many important improvements, so that it was not necessary to go again into the whole subject. The new standing orders, the result of the labours of the Committee of last Session, had worked so well, that although upwards of 150 private bills had been introduced during the present Session, there were only three points in reference to those bills, in regard to which any doubts had arisen. His object, therefore, in moving for the appointment of a Committee, was to have those points examined, so as to remove all doubts which existed in regard to the construction of the orders of the House. There was, however, another point to which he proposed the attention of the Committee should be directed. Material differences existed between the standing orders of the House of Lords, and the standing orders of the House of Commons, and he wished to assimilate them to each other. In regard to railways, the standing orders of the House of Commons required the parties to give notice of their intention to apply to Parliament for a bill in the months of February and March, but by the standing orders of the House of Lords, notice was required to be given at two different periods; and in consequence of this disagreement between the orders of the two Houses, great inconvenience was entailed upon the parties applying for bills. It was therefore important, that the orders of the two Houses of Parliament should be assimilated on this point, and he proposed, that the attention of the Committee should be directed to that ob-
 621
 Captain Boldero  said, there was one point connected with prison discipline on which he wished to offer a few words. He
 608 609
 Colonel Davies  said, that the delay in proceeding with Government Bills proceeded in some measure from the motions relative to foreign affairs and to Lord Durham's mission, which had occupied the time of the House. Of this, however, he was far from complaining, as it was undoubtedly the right of Members to bring forward motions condemning the policy of which they disapproved, and it tended to the interest of the country, that these motions should be brought forward. He thought, however, that in the present state of the public business, unless hon. Members were prepared to sit till August or September, they must be prepared to give up the day, as suggested by the noble Lord.
 Lord John Russell  could do no more, in answer to the two right hon. Gentlemen who had spoken on the opposite side, than to repeat what he had said on introducing the motion—that complaints had been made in the other House of Parliament, that measures came up to them for consideration at a period of the Session, when Members of neither House were in sufficiently numerous attendance to give opportunity for a due consideration of such measures, and therefore measures of great importance were not rejected on the ground of their merits, but postponed to another year, in order to get time for further consideration. Now, he must say he thought that if this were true, the House of Commons were bound to remove this ground of objection; and if, on the other hand, any persons made this an excuse to get rid of measures which they did not like, then the House had equal reason to take measures to do away with that excuse. He wished, that it might no longer be said, that Government brought forward measures to which there was no time for giving due consideration. With respect to what had been said of the negligence of Government in not bringing forward important public measures at an early period of
 601
 Lord John Russell  rose to move, that for one month from and after the 14th of May, an additional day in the week should be appropriated to Orders of the Day. It was a matter of considerable consequence, that both Houses of Parliament should have full time to consider the various measures that were brought before them; and it was very desirable, that when measures of great importance were under discussion, a full attendance of the Members of either House should be insured. This very desirable object had been defeated, to some extent, for several years past, owing to the lateness of the period at which measures of the very greatest importance had been sent up to the other House. It was well
 598
 Lord John Russell  concurred in some of the suggestions thrown out by the gallant officer, particularly as to that respecting a uniformity of sentence in cases of similar military offence. He had intended to meet the difficulties of the case by the introduction of a bill limiting a particular prison, or part of a prison, to the purpose of confining military offenders under the superintendence of a suitable inspector, the whole, at the same time, to be subject to the control of the gaoler in chief. With reference to the suggestions thrown out in favour of the prison discipline in the gaols of the United States, he must say he would never lend his influence to sanction a system of such extreme severity as that adopted by the American Government in this respect. He was not at all disposed, though favourable to the separate system after conviction, to build a prison upon the plan of the Commissioners, for the use of the city of London, although they were not of themselves likely to adopt the resolution to build one upon that plan. He was extremely anxious to effect some valuable improvement in the discipline of prisons; but he would not, by proposing a system which must be very costly in the experiment, raise an alarm and opposition that might defeat the benevolent objects which he trusted were yet attainable.
 Lord John Russell  proceeded to move for leave to bring in a Bill for establishing a prison for Juvenile Offenders.
 Lord John Russell  said, that with regard to the postponement of the Tithe Bill, which had been alluded to by the right hon. Baronet, he had only to say, that it appeared to him that when one measure had been for a long time under discussion, it was better to bring it to a close, than distract the attention by bringing forward other measures concurrently. Therefore it was, that he proposed the third reading of the Irish Poor-law Bill, on the day when Irish Members were likely to be present. There were at present only two days, Mondays and Fridays, on which the Government could bring forward measures. By measures, he meant not only bills, but also the supplies for the year. Considering the present state of the business of the House, he must say, that it was difficult to proceed satisfactorily with more than one or two measures at a time, unless an additional day were allowed. The right hon. Baronet opposite, (Sir Robert Peel) seemed to think, that the proposition for limiting notices of motions was an innovation, and that they formerly existed in great frequency and number. Now, when he sat at the opposite side of the House, he recollected that there were comparatively few notices of motions, and
 605
 Lord John Russell  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the better ordering of prisons. This was the supplement of a bill which had been introduced in another House by a noble Friend of his; according to which, inspectors of prisons had been appointed, and various other acts had been suggested, which, however, he was induced to think might be amended. This bill enabled the councils of cities and boroughs to visit gaols in the same way as magistrates at quarter sessions were now enabled. It provided for the separation of different classes of prisoners; that was to say, that those who were committed for misdemeanors only (but who very often, he admitted, were persons of as depraved habits as those who were felons) should be classified and separated from the felons. Another object which he had in view was to do away altogether with the practice (which he considered to be most erroneous in principle) of employing prisoners as officers in prisons. Such a system, no doubt, as that which existed of employing a certain number of convicted prisoners to fill offices within the gaols, might be said to be one of practical economy, but it was, in his opinion, the worst possible principle which could be devised, and undoubtedly in its working gave rise to the worst consequences. It was a bad principle to proceed upon, that those who had been convicted of crime should possess any power over their fellow-prisoners. Those criminals who were the friends of these officers, who were, in fact, inspectors, were treated with unmerited kindness, whilst less un-
 606
 Lord J. Russell  said, that since the hon. Member had alluded to the inspectors of prisons, he must state what he had intended to state at a later period of the bill. He agreed with them in what they had said respecting juvenile offenders, but it was clear that the condition of their pardon should be, that after their confinement in an asylum they should emigrate or be removed to some colony which was not a penal settlement. He had been some time in attempting a scheme of this kind after considering what had been done hitherto by Captain Brenton and others, and he had been in communication with individuals in the colonies who were willing to take such apprentices. If it were done to a certain extent by Government, great advantages would be obtained
 612 613
 Mr. A. Chapman  begged to call the attention of the noble Lord to the fact that much of the delinquency of young offenders arose from their not being able to obtain employment at a time when they were most inclined to activity and disliked
 611
 Mr. Hawes  begged the noble Lord to recollect the resolutions which had been agreed to by the Select Committee, which had been appointed by the noble Lord himself. A considerable time had elapsed since the report of that Committee had been made, and a serious increase of crime amounting to no less than eighteen per cent., had taken place. The report of the Committee to which he alluded, on the laws and regulations relating to prisons, declared it to be the opinion of that Committee that means should be taken for the separate keeping of prisoners; and, secondly, that, for the purpose of carrying this object into effect, it would be necessary to reconstruct or to rebuild certain gaols. On this subject the noble Lord had had a correspondence with the city authorities. Now, the noble Lord, after this correspondence, had an excellent opportunity to establish the best model of prison discipline. He thought there was no one who would not admit, that our gaols, instead of being places of reform, were the nurseries of crime. Let the Central Criminal Court be made the seat of the experiment which had been sug-
 607
 Mr. Hawes  said, that the Bill was valuable as far as it went, but that it would have been better had it contained a provision for young offenders after their discharge from punishment.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was very glad that something was to be done to remedy the evils which arose from the difficulty of construing some of the standing orders of the House. After what had been done by former Committees, he believed, that the standing orders were now nearly in a perfect state, and that little remained to be done but to remove the doubts which existed as to the construction of a few of them. In regard to the differences which existed between the standing orders of the two Houses, he was most anxious that those differences should be removed, but, at the same time, he was unwilling to depart from the order of 1836 in regard to notices of private bills. He thought it important, that that order should continue in force, and that the notices should be still given in February and March, and he did not doubt, that the House of Lords would, when the matter was fairly represented, consent to assimilate their orders to those of the House of Commons on this point. He was perfectly willing to assent to the appointment of a Committee, and he would do everything in his power to render its labours effectual. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he was unable to say anything in regard to the clauses to which the hon. Member had alluded; but, as the subject had been mentioned, he could not forbear giving his testimony to the admirable way in which the private business was conducted in the other House by the noble Lord, the Chairman of Committees. But for the care which that noble Lord bestowed
 622
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the proposition of the noble Lord seemed to him to involve considerations of very great importance—it was commencing at the middle of a Session, and when Gentlemen were most assiduous and regular in their attendance on their duties in that House, to interpose and procure for the Government a larger portion of precedence than any other Government ever had enjoyed. The notice days, as he had always considered them, and according to what he thought was the constitutional mode of viewing them, gave opportunities to private Members of Parliament to question the acts of Government, and to bring forward anything to which they thought fit to call the attention of the House. This was his view, but he must say, that the motion of the noble Lord had a direct tendency to prevent any Gentleman who might have to call the attention of the House to any grievance, or any matter of interest to his constituents, or to any class of the community, or to the public generally, not, it was true, from bringing it forward at all, but from bringing it forward in due time; he repeated, if the motion were agreed to, its tendency would be, to postpone bringing on questions of such a nature, until a period
 599
 Mr. Yates  thought, that the experiment of sending juvenile offenders as emigrants to the colonies had been successful with reference to those who were under fourteen years of age. He rejoiced at the plan which had just been explained to the House by the noble Lord, and he hoped that every county in England would have the benefit of its operation.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if society took as much pains to prevent crime as it did to punish crime, the advantage would soon be evident. At present, one-half of the money that was spent in punishing crime would educate and train up the children who committed it, and thereby prevent it. He had heard it over and over again stated that there was no question of so much importance as a system of education, and yet it continued untried. Surrounded as children now were with all kinds of allurement to idleness and crime, was it fair to expect any other result than that which was actually met with?
 Mr. Hume  said, that there could be no doubt whatever that very great practical reforms were required in the regulation of our prisons, and he rose, in the first place, to express his concurrence in the principle which the noble Lord's measure went to establish, of preventing those, who had been convicted of crime from acting as servants or assistants in prisons. He wished to ask the noble Lord in what manner he meant to carry out the general superintending power over prisons, so as to secure a uniformity of action in all cases. He believed, that unless some powerful and stringent authority were established by the Government, it would be impossible to prevent many of the abuses which did exist. He was rather of opinion that the whole subject of prison regulation ought to be left in the hands of the Secretary of State, and that a uniform system of practice and regulation should be followed throughout all the different gaols of the kingdom.
 Mr. Hume  said, the consequence of
 602
 Mr. Hume  said, that when private bills, which had been sent up from that House, were brought down from the House of Lords, clauses were often found added, many of which he considered were useless; yet they were given to understand, that unless they were consented to by the Commons, the bills would not pass the House of Lords. He thought it worth while for the Committee to inquire whether something might not be done to remedy this evil.
 Mr. Sheil  observed, that there was one consideration which was not, in his opinion, an unimportant one, and which would probably induce the House to accede to the noble Lord's proposition. It had been stated in another place, the House of Lords, that the Irish Corporation Bill, the Irish Tithe Bill, and the Irish Poor-law Bill, would be by them considered as parts of one measure, and that the Irish Corporation Bill would not be passed unless the other bills were laid before them at the same time. It followed, therefore, that if they sent up only one of those measures, the Lords would come to the resolution which they had already announced, of postponing it till the other two reached them. It was necessary, therefore, that the three measures should go up together to the other House, and after they were disposed of there, and they should come back to this House, there would be ample time for their reconsideration. For this reason, if for no other, he would support the proposition of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Gibson  would observe, that the inspectors of prisons had said, that prison discipline would be of little use to juvenile offenders, unless they were furnished with some resource of which they might avail themselves in obtaining a livelihood after their discharge, for they were immediately besieged by their old acquaintances, and without such resource they would soon return to their old habits. To think of effecting a perfect reformation was visionary; but it was only right to provide some resources of gaining a subsistence for those who had been confined, many of whom were abandoned by their parents, or were orphans, deserted by their friends, and in his opinion it would be best secured by some system of voluntary emigration. He thought well of the asylum of Captain Brenton, at Hackney-wick, where there was not the degradation of the treadmill; but in spite of all those excellent regulations, unless some kind of emigration were adopted, the children confined there would return to their old habits on being discharged. Children who had been in gaol found themselves proscribed: they had lost their characters, and the only means they had of gaining a livelihood was in the colonies. He hoped the noble Lord (J. Russell) would be prepared to carry out the suggestion of the inspectors of prisons, for he thought that the only method of rendering the reform of prisoners at all permanent.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in moving for the re-appointment of the Committee on Joint-stock Banks, reminded the House of the circumstances under which that Committee had originated; and that it was not at all intended to be a Committee adverse to Joint-stock banking companies, but to inquire into the existing state of the law with a view to the improvement of the system. The Committee pursued their labours with great pains and industry during the first year, and the several members thereof were indefatigable in the discharge of their duty. It was revived in the course of last year, but owing to the circumstances which led to the close of the Session, no report was made. He moved for the revival of the Committee in the same spirit that he originally proposed it. The subjects for inquiry were the same—namely, the state of Joint-stock banks; the relation between those banks and the public; the transactions of the Bank of England in connexion with the several branch banks in this country; the effect they might produce on the circulation, and their bearing on the whole system of Joint-stock banks. The House had provided a remedy for the case of difficulty which had arisen in consequence of clergymen holding shares in Joint-stock banks; but that remedy was only temporary, because it was deemed incon-
 623
 Mr. Ward  said, that the difference between the standing orders of the two Houses in regard to the periods for giving notice of any application to Parliament for private bills had given rise to great difficulties, and been productive of much inconvenience to those parties who had embarked in great and important undertakings. He therefore trusted, that the result of the labours of the Committee would be to assimilate the orders of the two Houses so as to prevent the possibility of any inconvenience for the future.
 Sir J. Graham  begged to submit to the House, that this motion would interfere with the notice of motion which he had placed on the book, respecting a subject to which he was most anxious to call the attention of the House—he meant the proceedings at the late and preceding Roxburghshire elections, as transactions had taken place there, which it seemed to him especially necessary should be brought under the consideration of the House. He entirely agreed with his right hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Cambridge in what had fallen from him respecting the character of this attempt on the part of Government, at engrossing to themselves those opportunities which independent Members had hitherto enjoyed of bringing forward questions of importance; and he must say, that he hoped it would not be submitted to by the House. He would not wish to look at this question with reference to his own side of the House merely, but he would appeal to the hon. Member for Kilkenny, and all hon. Members on the other side, who were unconnected with Government, whether this was a fitting, proper, or even convenient course?
 600
 Sir Eardley Wilmot  said, it was evident that the object of the noble Lord, in making this proposition, was to secure young offenders from the contamination to which they were at present exposed by
 610
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it was possible to make a great improvement in the punishment of juvenile offenders before their conviction. He thought the project of the noble Lord was very satisfactory, but at the same time it did not go far enough to remedy the evil. In his opinion, the great evil arose from the confinement of these juvenile offenders in prison, and that the real contamination was acquired before their trial; but, at the same time, it was impossible not to see, that a great difficulty interposed to a satisfactory arrangement. He entirely concurred in the principle laid down by the hon. Baronet (Sir E. Wilmot), and thought it most important that some reform should be made, that these young; offenders might be saved from the contamination of a prison. It might be difficult to consider whether there should be a new jurisdiction to which they should submit the trials of juvenile offenders; but it was only by contemplating it that they could hope to discover the means of effecting it. If they agreed that it could be done, the age of the offender must be ascertained before the trial; but supposing twelve years of age to be the limit, it might then be said that they were depriving juvenile offenders of the advantages of a jury which older delinquents possessed; and besides this, the plea might be urged that they were above the age prescribed, in which case there would be great difficulty in ascertaining the truth. Now it seemed to be always thought that juvenile offenders committed only small offences; but this was, in his opinion, a great mistake, for amongst that class there were some of the most formidable villains with which honesty had to contend. The best way to treat a majority of them was to hand them over to a summary jurisdiction and save them from gaol; but then, if such a jurisdiction could be provided, it would be said that there was no reason why every case should not be submitted to it. It would be said too, that there was not a publicity of trial, or the advantages of a jury, and that juvenile offenders were not entitled to the same advantage as older Ones. He wished it was possible to
 614
 Sir Robert Peel,  in undertaking to consider an amendment of the law with reference to the trial of controverted Election Petitions, had taken the course which most probably any other person would have pursued under similar circumstances, and had considered the whole process adopted with respect to election petitions from the first step to the last—from the original entering into recognizances to the final taxation of costs consequent upon the termination of the inquiry. In the course of
 615 616 617 618 619
 Sir Robert Peel  should give his vote against the proposition of the noble Lord. He was quite certain, that if the House sanctioned the precedent, sought to be laid down in this instance, they would be appealed to next year to pass a similar one. The noble Lord said, they had done nothing but considered bills, and that there never was a Session in which the business of legislation occupied so much of the attention of the House. He said,—See what important bills we have been consi-
 603 604
 Viscount Howick  entirely concurred with the right hon. Baronet opposite in the expediency of devising some plan for rendering the proceedings arising out of contested elections more simple, and for removing those doubts which existed in regard to the law as it now stood. He was sure, all must have felt the necessity of preventing, by a simpler mode of proceeding, those appeals to the House collectively, which had been so common during the present Session, and the House, and the country, were deeply obliged to the right hon. Baronet for having devoted his attention to this important subject. The right hon. Baronet would recollect, that an hon. and learned Member of that House, who had left the country for the present, had introduced a measure in the early part of the Session for the improvement of the tribunal for the trial of contested elections, several clauses of which were intended to remedy some of those evils to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded. The provisions of that bill were worthy of the consideration of the Committee which had been moved for, and he trusted their attention would be directed to the measure. By the bill of his hon. and learned Friend it was proposed, in order to prevent the presentation of frivolous or vexatious petitions, yet, at the same time, to throw no obstacle in the way of those which were well founded, that a deposit should be made before any proceed-
 620
 Sir H. Vivian , on moving the Ordnance Estimates, in Committee of Supply, said, that on all former occasions these estimates had been moved by the hon. Member who filled the office of clerk of the Ordnance, but his hon. and gallant Friend, the late clerk of the Ordnance, within a short period, had resigned his seat in that House. That officer was, in fact, the proper person to open those estimates to the House, as the whole
 625 l. l. l. 626 l. l. l. l., l. 627 l. l. l.
 Sir Hussey Vivian , in reply, begged to assure the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, that the trigonometrical survey would be completed as soon as possible, but he found that under no circumstances could the maps be made so perfect as the right hon. Gentleman suggested they should be. Those which had been already begun, without laying down the railways which subsequently intersected them, must be finished. With reference to the objections of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, the right hon. and gallant Officer observed that great difficulty was involved in the principle which he sought to establish. The corps of the royal artillery and of the royal engineers were, of course, two scientific corps, and it was not in a day, in a month, or a year, that men could be so trained as to be effective in either service; and, therefore, it was the greatest possible mistake to attempt to reduce their numbers. He thought, to use a homely phrase, that this was being "penny wise and pound foolish." If, at the period of 1793, when the French war began, instead of sending out a miserable body of men—miserable in
 635 s.
 Captain Wood  also complained of the exclusion of soldiers from the gardens of the Parks, and said, that he could see no reason why they should not have as free access to those places as any other of her Majesty's subjects.
 Mr. Miles  concurred in the sentiments expressed by his hon. Colleague who had just resumed his seat, and he could corroborate the facts he had stated. He, at the same time, must express his opinion that the course taken by the Government in disbanding single troops was one which could not be defended. In the county which he had the honour to represent, two troops had been disbanded, which had done great good. It was well worth the consideration of Government whether by adopting the plan he had alluded to, Government were not in fact disbanding those troops which were the most useful.
 Mr. Ferguson  declared, that as Lord-Lieutenant of a county in Scotland, he should always be most reluctant to bring the yeomanry into collision with the ma-
 659
 Captain Boldero  suggested, that establishing savings banks or benefit societies in the army would be advantageous, as by that means men who were discontented with the service would be enabled to lay by as much as would purchase their own discharge.
 Captain Boldero  felt called upon to offer a few words on some of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny. That hon. Member's reflection upon the noble Lord in the command of the forces, that as long as he (Lord Hill) continued in that command there could be no hope of any reduction, was, to say the least of it, ill-timed. The noble Lord had no more to do with the reductions than the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He had only the distribution of the forces. The reductions were in the department of the Secretary at War. The hon. Member had said, that any increase in the artillery was unnecessary. In that he was much mistaken. Three companies of artillery had been embarked that day, and there were at present not more than 300 effective artillery men at Woolwich, and the duty at the arsenal and the places adjacent required not fewer than eighty sentinels, so that nearly one-third of the men were to be on duty each day; but, taking the casualties, and the fact that some of the
 632
 Mr. Fox Maule  differed from the right hon. Gentleman, who said there was no ground stated for the reductions. The noble Lord had stated in his circular, that the tranquillity of the country justified him in recommending to her Majesty to dispense with the services of some of the corps. With regard to the objection of the right hon. Gentleman, that the principle of reduction, confining it to single troops, and not extending it to entire corps, had not been adhered to, the only case he had stated in England was the Flint corps, consisting, as he said, of four troops, which had been reduced. The right hon. Gentleman had been corrected by the right hon. Gentleman beside him (Mr. Wynn); four troops had, in fact, been reduced in February, 1837; but there was another troop, which was re-
 658 l.,
 Lord John Russell  would answer the right hon. Baronet's question respecting the arms sent to Spain as correctly as his not being prepared would allow him. A request, founded on the existing treaty, had certainly been some time ago made to her Majesty's Ministers by the Spanish government for 100,000 muskets. It was thought by her Majesty's Government that the application ought to be complied with,
 634
 Lord John Russell  repeated, that the last 50,000 of the 100,000 had been sent off about six months ago.
 Lord John Russell  could only repeat that 100,000 were furnished. The Spanish government certainly represented that 50,000, or some less number, had not reached them.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the commanding officers with whom he had communicated on the subject seemed to disapprove of any proposition of the kind. His own opinion, however, was favourable to any plan which would put the soldier in the way of resuming with advantage to himself habits of industry.
 Lord J. Russell  stated, that the exclu-
 636
 Lord John Russell  was about to rise after the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montgomeryshire, had taken his seat, when the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken thought proper, at considerable length, to complain of his not having given a full explanation to the House of the circumstances under which this proposition was brought forward, and of the grounds on which it was proposed to be supported. By his remaining still, the right hon. Gentleman had had the advantage of making a long speech on the subject, which he otherwise would hardly have had the opportunity of doing. Respecting very much, as he (Lord John Russell) did, the feelings of his hon. Friends at his own side of the House, who had spoken upon this subject, and likewise respecting the feelings of hon. Gentlemen at the other side, who might be connected with the yeomanry,
 648 "I am further commanded by her Majesty to desire that your Lordship will assure the commanding officer, and request him to communicate to the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates of their respective corps, that her Majesty is deeply sensible of the zeal and loyalty uniformly displayed by them from the time of their first being called into action down to the present moment, on all occasions when their services have been required; and it is her Majesty's pleasure, as a mark of her royal approbation, that the officers should retain the rank and honours belonging to their respective commissions." 649 650 651 652 653 654
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that although the noble Lord had just passed so high an eulogium on a militia, he had no doubt it was a measure like many others in which the noble Lord expressed much interest—like, for instance, some of the resolutions which he had so much at heart, or like the budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer—measures in which the noble Lord was deeply interested, but the period for whose consummation seldom arrived. The noble Lord had spoken of incurring the censure of the hon. Member for Kilkenny; he cared but little for that, and he thought it would be well if the noble Lord cared as little. He (Colonel Sibthorp) disliked the reductions of the noble Lord because they were partial. He found by reference that, in the part of the county in which he resided, a troop had been disbanded, because commanded by an hon. Friend of his, who had been for many years a Member of that House, leaving not a single troop in the neighbourhood. Far different was the case of that part in which a noble Lord resided, whose son he saw opposite, who had done him the honour of alluding to him lately at a public meeting—a reform one of course. The hon. Member had said, that he was in the habit of laying his papers on the table of the House, and fancying himself the leader of the Conservative ranks. He professed himself happy to follow the leader behind whom he sat, and would tell the hon. Member, that he would rather sit behind the right hon. Gentleman, than he would occupy the seat of the hon. Member, although it was in the Ministerial phalanx. In conclusion, he must say, that he had seen enough of the yeomanry to give him a high idea of their services, and that with regard to the present motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, he
 655
 Mr. A. Sanford , agreed in the observations of the hon. Member for Wiltshire. He thought also that arrangements might be made, by which the same sum might be saved to the country, and yet, that the same number of yeomanry corps should be kept up; such, for instance, as instead of having the whole out every year, calling the different regiments out in successive years. In the county which he had the honour to represent, which had a population of upwards of 400,000 persons, there had not been quartered, for many years, a single troop of regulars: all the duty was performed by the yeomanry corps. It was well worthy consideration, that in that county the peace had been so well preserved, when it was recollected, that in an adjoining district, in which the collieries were situated, the yeomanry had been called out no less than fifty times, for the suppression of different riots. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Wiltshire in reference to checking the riots in 1830, it was a remarkable circumstance, that at that time the spirit of riot appeared to have passed through the line of counties where the yeomanry had been disbanded, and that it stopped when it arrived at those counties where they were continued. This ought not to be lost sight of; and he deeply regretted that any alteration had taken place, and still more that any further alteration was proposed. He regretted it the more because he knew that the young men who were attached to the yeomanry corps had a feeling of honour in being so employed; and in corroboration of this statement, he would mention to the House an expression which was used in a petition which he had had the honour to present from the men of the corps which he had commanded. They declared that "their feelings as Englishmen, were hurt by the proposed reduction
 641
 Mr. Goulburn  would oppose the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He considered, that when a reduction of the yeomanry was demanded, the House and the country had a right to require from Government that they should show some distinct grounds for that reduction, and this, not only as a satisfaction to private feelings, but on grounds essentially affecting the main interests of the country. He was well persuaded, that if thoroughly satisfactory reasons could be shown, for the disbanding of this force—if it could be proved, that the public interest required such a measure to be taken—this highly meritorious force would, throughout the kingdom, be as ready to dissolve itself as it had been prompt in offering its best services to the country. The whole
 656 l. l. 657
 Sir H. Hardinge  wished to ask the noble Lord(Lord J. Russell) two questions in connection with the subject under debate. He perceived, by the return which he held in his hand, that in the county of Hertford, there were at present seven corps of yeomanry—that was, one in the northern division of the county, four in the south, and two in the east. Now, on the principle of the noble Lord, as laid down in his own observations, the single troop in the northern division should be reduced. But it had been said, that the hon. Member for Sheffield, who commanded it, having remonstrated with the noble Lord, it was, in consequence of what then passed between them, retained. A proportionate number of men had, however, been reduced from the other six troops, for the purpose of forming an equivalent reduction on the entire number in the county. The consequence was, as every one could foresee, that they were rendered less effective than before, and their utility greatly impaired. By the same return, he also found, that in Sussex, the Petworth troop, commanded by a gallant Friend of his own, had also been reduced. Now, economy could not be pleaded in this case, as that corps had been clothed and principally maintained at the expense of the late Earl of Egremont; yet still it was reduced, though four troops under the command of Lord Surrey, had been kept on foot. That was clearly against the principle of the noble Lord; for even if the Hertford case were to be taken as the precedent, the four troops of Lord Surrey should have been reduced by fifty men for the purpose of having the Petworth troop retained, as the corps of the hon. Member for Sheffield had been in Hertfordshire. The Petworth corps were now in existence, he was informed, but they were so only because they served without pay, and were of no expense whatever to Government. Now,
 660
 Mr. Warburton  felt himself bound to give his support to the amendment of the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Kilkenny. The hon. Member for Wiltshire had said, this was as constitutional a force as the militia; but when did the colonel of a militia regiment ever write such a letter as that which had been read this evening in the case of the reduction of his regiment. Was that militia subordination? Was that the submission of the military to the civil power? Was such a thing ever heard as a colonel of militia saying, that he would not continue to hold his commission at the will of any particular administration? He regarded the force, then, as anything but a constitutional force. It appeared to be the feeling that when once the power had been put into the hands of the force, they calculated that they had a right to maintain in their own hands the authority thus given them; and the moment they supposed that, it was time that they should be taught that the civil authority was superior to the military power. He could well understand the use of such a force in time of war, and he thought that at such times it would be highly useful, for all had a common interest in resisting a foreign enemy; but when peace returned, he was prepared to contend, that it was not desirable or
 642
 Mr. Benett , being probably the oldest member of a yeomanry corps in that House, wished to say a few words. He had served forty years in that force; but having now left it, he had no personal interest in the question. He must, however, repudiate the charge of partisanship; he declared solemnly to the House, that he had never
 639 l. 640
 Mr. Hume  said, that as it was his intention to take the sense of the House on the vote, he would state the reasons which induced him to take this course. He had always objected to the yeomanry, because it was a partisan force, and it was one which was not favourably regarded by the public. He knew, that the opinion of some Gentlemen was, that the composition of this force was fair and unexceptionable, and that it comprised individuals of different political opinions; but some corps were entirely Conservative, and he believed, that very few, or none' were entirely Liberal. He looked upon every force only as it served to keep the public peace; but he had presented petition after petition complaining that this corps was used for party purposes. The petitioners had no objection to the employment of a regular military force, if such employment were necessary, but they were opposed to any partisan force. The House would doubtless recollect, that a few years ago, he believed it was when the Marquess of Lansdowne was Home Secretary, Government had intended to abolish this force entirely; he was sorry that the House had not now before it the evidence then furnished to the Government of the efficiency of this corps as compared with the militia, but he knew that it was intended to abolish the corps; now, however, a part only was to be disbanded and part was to be kept on foot, and what he
 637 Brother Comrades,—Her Majesty's Government have disbanded a great part of the yeomanry force of the country, troops raised under precisely similar circumstances as our own. Our corps is for the present spared; how long it will be allowed to remain in existence is very doubtful. The Prime Minister said in the House of Lords, a few evenings ago, that the 'establishment of the yeomanry corps took place at a period of emergency, and without any idea of their permanent continuance.' He certainly added, that it was not the intention to make any further reduction 'unless rendered advisable by circumstances.' What these circumstances may be I cannot say, but I may conjecture. I am willing to prove my loyal attachment to the Throne by serving her Majesty; but I will not, as an independent man, subject myself to the capricious and uncertain conduct of the present Administration." No, no. 638 No, no. No, no.
 Mr. Hume  begged to disclaim any personal attack on the noble Lord. Had the hon. Member seen the letter?
 Mr. Hume  had been for the last eighteen years recommending a simplification and consolidation of the various departments of the Ordnance, which he was sorry to say had not been attended to. Every
 628 l. 629 s. s. 630 l.; l.; l., l. l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l. l. l., l. l. 631
 Mr. Alston  defended the retention of the Hertford Yeomanry. With respect to the corps commanded by Captain Ward (the hon. Member for Sheffield), he thought at the time the reduction was about to take place, that they had as good a right to be retained as any other men in Hertfordshire; for a better disciplined and more effective body of men he had never seen, and he had stated to the noble Lord that it would be a hard case for that part of the county of Hertford, in which he lived, if they were not kept up. He could assure the hon. Gentleman, that he knew scarcely one of them himself, and could not tell which were his political friends, or which his enemies.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  hoped, that the Gentlemen at the other side of the House, as this was a question to which great importance was attached in the county to which he belonged, and as he did not often encroach upon the indulgence of the House, would bear with him while he endeavoured to express his opinion upon this subject. The question, as he had said, was one of great importance, and was regarded with a deep and strong feeling throughout the country. It could not fail, therefore, to strike him as a singular thing, that in the course of this debate no explanation had yet been offered by a Minister of the Crown of the reasons for this reduction, although he doubted not that an explanation would be given before the debate closed. He differed from the hon. Members for Kilkenny and Bridport, in the view which they took of this matter, and he was glad that the question now under discussion was not the reduction of the whole yeomanry force, but only of that part of it which her Majesty's Ministers had been advised to cut down. The hon. Member for Bridport had pursued a course which could scarcely be called politic, in endeavouring to revive a discussion which could be attended with no beneficial result—a discussion on the subject of the Manchester riots. He could not hear imputations thrown out against the general body of the yeomanry, however, without doing his utmost to repel the charges, which, he must say, he believed to be unfounded. He believed, that the yeomanry were a constitutional force, and he thought that it would be better that that they should be called out in times of emergency than the militia, and he really believed, that that course would be most consistent with the feelings of the public at large. He, at the same time, fully agreed with the argument of the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, that the
 646 l. 647 l.
 Mr. Mark Philips  felt bound to support the motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He had on one occasion given his vote in favour of the maintenance of the yeomanry force, but he had since found ample reasons for changing his opinion on the subject. All the experience he had since had in the districts with which he was connected, convinced him that the yeomanry force was totally useless for its assigned purpose, The universal feeling throughout the manufacturing counties was entirely adverse to the maintenance of this force. It was highly inexpedient to employ one class of the population of a district in coercing the rest. What had taken place on the occasion of several disturbances in various parts of the country, showed that the force was not always efficient in the suppression of disturbances. Was it the case that the yeomanry had distinguished themselves in suppressing the riots at Bristol? He was convinced, that there would not be the slightest difficulty in keeping the peace of the country, or in putting down disturbances, if the yeomanry were entirely disbanded. Indeed, looking at the manner in which railroads would shortly intersect the whole country, and the great facility besides, of rapid communications with all parts of the kingdom by steam navigation, he was clearly of opinion, not only that the time had arrived for disbanding the whole yeomanry force, but that a considerable reduction might advantageously be made in the standing army.
 Sir Robert Peel : Perhaps they fell into the hands of Don Carlos.
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that the Spanish government complained that they had received only 50,000.
 Sir Robert Peel  did not perfectly understand the statement. It appeared one hundred thousand stand of arms had been sent, of which only 50,000 had reached their destination.
 Sir Robert Peel , adverting to the ordnance surveys of the counties of England, observed, that all must concur in thinking that such a work should be completed in as uniform and perfect a state as possible. In his opinion, that could be effected only by having them completed in as short a time as possible. Such extensive alterations were constantly making in the country by the formation of railroads and other projects, that if the completion of the ordnance surveys were spread over thirty or forty years, so far from being uniformly perfect, there would be the greatest inequality in that respect between the maps completed in the early and the maps completed in
 633
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that as he had filled the office of Secretary of State for the Home Department, and was therefore acquainted both with the circumstances which had called the Yeomanry force into existence, and with the services which it had rendered in maintaining internal tranquillity, the House would, perhaps, expect him to explain his opinions upon the subject then under discussion. With respect to the speeches made by the hon. Members opposite, he must say, that there was only one of them which he could understand, and that was the speech of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. That hon. Member objected to this force altogether, considering it dangerous to bring a force of such a description into collision with the people. The hon. Member might be right, or might be wrong in his opinion, but at any rate it was an intelligible opinion. But the opinion of the hon. Member for Bridport was, he confessed, quite above his comprehension, "In case of war," said the hon. Member. "I have no objection to employ the Yeomanry." But, as far as the argument was concerned, there was no difference whether the Yeomanry was employed in time of war, or in time of peace, for in both cases there was the same danger from bringing them into collision with the people. But the noble Lord opposite said, that in time of war, the Yeomanry would be no defence against a foreign enemy. It was true that they could not garrison towns; they could only preserve internal tranquillity. But was there no danger of collision with the people in time of war? Perhaps party
 661 posse comitatus, 662 663 l. élite l. 664 l.
 Mr. Williams Wynn  was of opinion that the liberty and interests of this country would be ill consulted by the disbanding of the yeomanry corps. The hon. Member for Bridport, who had last spoken, said, that it was not advisable to call out one portion of the population against another, but that an appeal should be made to military force. Was that hon. Member, then, prepared to give his sanction to an augmentation of the military force of the country? For he was quite sure that such a step would be necessary in the event of the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny being carried, in order that the riots which from time to time arose might be subdued. He was old enough to remember what took place in the year 1791. At that time those disgraceful riots took place in Birmingham, when the mob were in possession of the town for nearly a week, and when all the power which the magistrates could put in force failed to put an end to the dreadful scenes which occurred. The magistrates were compelled to degrade themselves, using supplications to the mob, and addressing them, as friends and fellow churchmen, praying them to discontinue their illegal acts, and to burn no more houses, for there was no military force which could be immediately resorted to for the security of the public peace.
 643 644 l. s. l. l. s. 645
 Mr. Bagge : I have seen the letter, and read it with great satisfaction.
 Mr. Bagge  could not listen in silence to the attacks made by the hon. Member for Kilkenny on a nobleman resident in the county which he had the honour to represent, and he rose to bear willing testimony to the universal satisfaction his conduct had given whilst commanding the corps of yeomanry, and to deny he had held that office with arty party view. He was sure the whole body of the independent yeomanry of the country would throw back with contempt the aspersion made on the noble commander by the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 Viscount Howick  moved, that the sum of 80,280 l.
 Viscount Howick  said, that the Ministers were not to blame for not carrying into effect the consolidation of the military departments to which the hon. Member had alluded. They admitted, that the present arrangement was defective, but not to the extent which the hon. Member had stated. Whatever was in the power of that officer to effect had been done by the present Master-General of the Ordnance. He admitted, that the system was very defective though, if he were to introduce a bill for its amendment, it would meet with great opposition. The discussion of such a measure would take up a considerable time, and any one who should look at the order-book and see the state of other business in the House must see, that to bring forward such a measure at present would only embarrass the business of the House.
 Viscount Powerscourt  said: Not having been present at former discussions on the principle of this measure, and to show to the learned Gentleman, the Member for Dublin, that Irishmen are not so unanimous upon this question as he imagines, I must entreat the attention of the House for a short time upon this occasion, while I say a few words in defence of this measure, as I cannot reconcile it to myself to give a silent vote upon the measure now before it—a measure which appears to me of the greatest importance to the future welfare of Ireland. I rise, Sir, not from any undue wish to intrude my inexperienced opinion upon the House, but influenced by a deep sense of the duty which I owe to my constituents, by a deep sense of the duty which I owe to the nation at large, as one of the Representatives of the people in this House, and a strong feeling of the great responsibility which attaches to every Member of Parliament. In short, Sir, I cannot give the vote which I have made up my mind to give to-night in favour of this measure without stating very briefly a few of the reasons which actuate me in such a course. I consider, in the first place, that whether or not, in point of fact, the absence of a Poor-law in Ireland is a substantial grievance, it at any rate leaves room for evil-disposed persons to make it appear to be so; and I think it cannot be denied that there is something wanting in any system of Government wherein there is no legal enactment to save the infirm and helpless from absolute want. But, at the same time, I think, that the end of a just and wholesome Poor-law should by no means include that indiscriminate charity which gives to all who ask, without inquiry, and as far as I understand the measure now before the House, I must say, that it appears to me well calculated to afford to the poor in Ireland that just
 691 692 693
 Mr. Corry  said, that as the modifications he had expected would have been
 694
 Sir W. Brabazon  rose to move, that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. He said, he thought himself called upon before the third reading of this Bill to make a few observations on it. He was in hopes that in its progress through the Committee it would have undergone such alterations and received such changes as might have reconciled the people of Ireland to it, for whose benefit it professed to have been introduced. But finding this had not been the case, and that those objectionable clauses had been pertinaciously adhered to, contrary to the strongly expressed opinion of the people of that country, he thought it due to those feelings, to the feelings he believed of the majority of the Irish Representatives in that House, and to those opinions he had always entertained himself on the subject, to come forward at this moment and move the postponement of this Bill; he should hope he should be the very last person who would give opposition to any measure really calculated to improve and ameliorate the condition of Ireland, but he considered that this Bill, more than probable, would have the effect of steeping her deeper in poverty and destitution. Such a measure was not fitted to a social condition such as that of Ireland. Even in this wealthy country, which was so much better able to bear up against it, how much of the pressure of it had been felt, and how much conflicting opinion there was on the subject of a Poor-law. He was quite ready to advocate a Poor-law on a modified scale, such as would meet the extreme cases of age and sickness, and those other infirmities that disqualify persons from earning a livelihood for themselves; he was sure such a measure would be cheerfully received in Ireland. It would be unnecessarily trespassing on the time of the House to enter upon all the particulars of the Bill, and those clauses against which such strong objections had been raised in Ireland, as they had been most fully discussed in Committee, and when known in Ireland, the public voice had been expressed against them from one quarter of the country to another, as was fully demonstrated by the number of petitions and signatures against the Bill being eighty-six, with 31,221 signatures, and only four petitions, with 593 signatures in its favour, besides the petitions presented to the House of Lords, from a number of the grand juries; and these petitions, he should think, might be considered as
 677
 Mr. O'Connell  said, it was his rule to support Ministers when they were right, and to oppose them when wrong; but the noble Lord seemed anxious that he should oppose them whether right or wrong. In the present instance he thought them exceedingly wrong; and he begged the House to consider, that he and the noble Lord for the first time in that House fully coincided in their views, and represented the unanimous opinions of the people of Ireland. The Archbishop of Dublin and Dr. Cooke were opposed to the measure, the grand juries in the different counties were opposed to it, and only four petitions had been presented in its favour. When Ireland, then, was almost unanimous in its opposition, he would appeal to English Gentlemen whether they would force on that country a measure that the people rejected. This was not a party question, and all who knew Ireland, and were anxious for her tranquillity, should unite in condemning this Bill, which was wrong in its principle and paltry in its limits. The English Poor-law Bill was based on different reasons. The abuse of the old system created a pauper population that shrunk from work, and its faults were so glaring, that the new Poor-law Act was passed to stimulate the people to labour. But was such a stimulus wanted in Ireland? Did not the Irish labourer traverse from the extreme of Connaught as far as Kent—about 700 miles—in search of employment? The Irish were to be found wherever wages could be obtained; and if
 682 683 l. l; l. l. 684 l. l.
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell  stated, that he having come to the conclusion that some provision should be made for the poor of Ireland, he had voted against many of his Friends with whom he always was unwilling to differ, and for the bill going into Committee, but he did so in the hope that many amendments would be introduced into the bill. He had, however, been disappointed in this respect, for none of the amendments that he had desired had been made in the measure, and he regretted that he could no longer give it his support. He thought that in the present state of Ireland it was desirable that there should be some system of Poor-laws established, but he feared that the present measure would rather have the effect of paralysing than bringing out the resources of the country.
 Lord Stanley  was very unwilling to trouble the House, and should do so but very shortly at that stage of the bill. But he could not bring himself to vote for the third reading, without guarding himself against its being supposed that he approved altogether of the principle of the bill, and was in no doubt and uncertainty as to many of its details. He never felt more doubt and reluctance than he did with respect to the vote he was about to give, because he shared with the Government, for the Government must share in that doubt and participate in his ignorance as to many of the calculations, and the data upon which the measure had been framed. He said this because many of the provisions of the bill were left entirely dependent on the contingent opinion of the
 713 714 715
 Mr. O' Connell  wished to make two remarks. One of them was in reference to something which had fallen from the
 718
 Mr. Smith O'Brien  hoped, that the hon. Gentleman would not that night press the Bill to a second reading, as a great number of Irish Members wished to take part in the discussion.
 Mr. O'Connell  observed, that the importance of the Bill could not be exaggerated; and if it were not brought on at an early hour in the evening, it would be impossible to have its merits discussed without an adjournment.
 Colonel Conolly  said, his constituents were anxious that he should support this bill, and, therefore, it was not without regret that he found himself unable to comply with their wishes. Amendments had been talked of, but had not been made; and, as he believed, that to carry such a measure into effect, would absorb the whole rental of the country, he must oppose its further progress. Entertaining the impressions he did respecting the measure, he merely wished to call the attention of the House to those points in which the noble Lord had departed from the principles on which he set out. If the noble Lord had consented to adopt the amendment proposed by the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin, he would have done much to propitiate the public mind to the bill. The noble Lord
 695
 Lord J. Russell  stated in reply, that it was intended that the coronation should take place in the same manner as it did in the reign of his late Majesty King William 4th. No procession took place at the coronation of George 4th, and upon the occasion of the present it was intended that there should be a public procession through the streets from the New Palace to Westminster Abbey. He might as well state at the same time, that her Majesty had approved of the advice given her upon the subject by her Ministers, which would be formally submitted to the consideration of the Council in a day or two. The 28th day of June was the day upon which the coronation would take place, instead of the 26th, as had been originally intended.
 Lord J. Russell : The matter does not belong to my department.
 Lord John Russell  could not allow the Bill to pass its last stage without loudly protesting against the language which had been used by the noble Lord, when he asserted that the Bill had passed its third
 719
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  was sorry to find that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Lucas), had arrived at the determination that he could not support the bill, for he could assure the hon. Gentleman that his opinion was one on which he was disposed to place great reliance. The hon. Gentleman had given the subject great attention; it was with great satisfaction that the friends of the measure had witnessed the conduct which he had pursued in the Committee, but he would excuse him for saying he did not think that any of the arguments which he had brought forward afforded him a sufficient ground for the withdrawal, in this stage, of his support of the bill. He had said, that he withdrew it because he had difficulties on three points, which he had specified, namely, the size of the unions, the clause with regard to the 5 l. l. l. 709 710 O'Connell: 711 s. s. l. 712
 Mr. Lucas  said, that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Sheil) who spoke last but one had rescued the debate from the longer with which it was threatened by the adoption of an exceedingly novel line of argument. The hon. and learned Member had attempted to connect two subjects, which were wholly and essentially different, and which he thought it was necessary should be kept distinct. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, that it was improper to proceed with the Poor Relief Bill—to lay a new burthen
 704 d. s. d. 705
 Sir E. Sugden , as he had taken an active part in the various discussions respecting the present bill, was anxious to make a few observations. He did not think it fair to charge English Members with a desire to force this measure upon the Irish people. A more unfair and unjust charge could not be made. He had not been absent from any of the discussions that had taken place respecting this bill, and he had devoted his attention to it, not with an English but with an Irish feeling. He was interested in improving the condition of the people of Ireland; and, moreover, he thought it a great object of English legislation. He was not anxious to force this measure. He had taken no view whatever respecting it as a party man, but had taken that bill which he thought best. This was, in fact, no party question, and one on which no party feelings should be displayed. Now, with respect to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin during the whole of his argu-
 697 698
 Mr. F. French  was sure that his hon. Friend would object any further to the course he proposed, when he understood that the discussion was to take place in Committee. An arrangement had been made by the delegates from Ireland, which was sanctioned by the English and Scotch Colleges, and which was approved of by
 720 pro forma,
 Mr. F. French  was as anxious to save the amount of the county cess as the hon. Member who had just spoken. That which had been objected to, he did not hold to be a part of the principle of the Bill, as the principle was for the extension and protection of medical charities in Ireland.
 Mr. Goulburn  would be glad to know from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he could state to the House the probable amount of the expenses incurred by calling out the militia in the North American provinces to suppress the late disturbances in Canada.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that there was one portion of the Bill to which he objected, namely, that the commission under the Bill, to whom very great powers were given, was to consist only of professional men. If there was to be a Board of Management, there should be laymen added to that Board.
 Mr. J. Young  observed, that the noble Lord who had just sat down had said the opposition to this measure had been late in coming, but the noble Lord appeared to have overlooked the fact that there were petitions against it on the table from every part of Ireland. In order to conciliate the landed interest of Ireland, the noble Lord ought to have attempted to define to what extent in any one year, the expenses of this Poor-law would go in particular districts. The hon. Gentleman read a statement of what he had calculated would be the expenses of the machinery of the bill, in one county, for one year, which he said would reach the enormous sum of 16,000 l. 690
 Mr. Bellew  said, it was his intention to vote for the third reading, on the ground that the bill would be a great benefit to the Irish poor. It was much better, in his opinion, that this bill should pass, than the poor of Ireland should be left for another year without a Legislative provision.
 Mr. Sheil  commenced by observing that, giving the English Members credit for all the purity of intention which the right hon. Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) claimed for them, it was quite possible that, from that want of experience possessed by the right hon. and learned Gentleman himself, in consequence of the high and honourable situation which he filled, to the admiration of all who witnessed the discharge of his duties, might render those Gentlemen not the best judges with respect to the safety of the experiment which was attempted to be applied to Ireland. He perfectly agreed in the opinion that party feelings should not be excited in a discussion of this description. The noble Lord, the Member for Bath, spoke in a manner which formed the only exception to the rule which was observed throughout this discussion when he expressed his willingness to support this measure as the means of putting down agitation. He would not stop to inquire how locking up the beggars would have the effect of putting down the independence of the 10 l. 700 l. l. 701 s. s. s., s. l. l. 702
 Sir Robert Fergusson  remarked, that there were two principles in this Bill—one was that in which the medical practitioners felt most deeply interested, and the other was that to which he most strongly objected, namely, that which gave a power to a certain Committee of medical gentlemen to have placed under them the medical charities in Ireland, and to assess the counties in Ireland as they might think fit. He could not allow the second reading of the Bill to pass unopposed, if it were intended to retain that part of the Bill. The Grand Juries of Ireland ought not to be deprived of the power of regulating and controlling the expenses to be imposed upon the rate-payers by any superintending Charity Board whatever. He would not wish to give to any such board the power of imposing what sum they liked, without the Grand Jury being able to control the expenditure. He objected so much to that principle in the Bill, that he should
 721
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the question asked by his right hon. Friend was one of very considerable importance, so much so as to occasion the postponement of his financial statement, inasmuch as that statement must necessarily be incomplete, unless he was prepared absolutely and distinctly to state the amount of the expenses which had been, and might be, incurred in that matter. The House, however, appeared to be so impatient, that his financial statement should be made, that he was unwilling to postpone it beyond the period which had now been fixed. He was sorry at not being able at that moment to state the amount of the expense already incurred. There could, of course, be no difficulty in making out the return up to the receipt of the last advices. The House would readily perceive that the pressure of affairs in Canada was so great and the emergency so unexpected, that it was impossible for the local Government to carry on their business with the ordinary machinery and the usual and established commissariat rules. They were consequently compelled to have recourse to such a commissariat system as would meet the emergency of the case. A new board of control, composed of British officers, had to be formed, and their duties were not only to superintend the current expenditure, but also to exercise a revision over the past. He had not yet received, nor indeed did he expect to be able to receive, the accounts of the supplies, which he was asked to state to the House.
 Mr. Wakley  said, that with the understanding that the Bill should be brought forward at an early period of the evening; before the Committee was gone into, he hoped that no objection would be made to the course now proposed by the hon. Member for Roscommon. The Bill, in his opinion, required very material alterations.
 Mr. William Roche  said, that with respect to those regulations in the details of the Bill, which presented themselves as objectionable to the mind of the hon. Member for Monaghan, who just now spoke, it appeared to him (Mr. Roche) that one year's practical operation and consequent experience, would do more to indicate where we were right, or where we were wrong, than double that period spent in theoretical discussion; debated as the measure had already so amply been, both as regards principle and detail, and conflicting as opinions are on points which can alone be decided by practice and experience. In this view, therefore, it appeared to him advisable to advance the measure into actual operation, and promptly submit it to the decisive test of experience, instead of wasting time in wordy contests. Both feeling and reflection always inclined him, to support the principle of a Poor-law, as alike humane and politic; and history, he believed, proved that those countries were richest and happiest, where, when judiciously devised, it prevailed. That he did so, however, in this instance, not from the preposterous notion, that the present or any one measure could be competent to remedy the various evils which Ireland so long endured—evils generated, not only by centuries of physical neglect, but also by centuries of a vicious and paralysing system of government, a system which called to its aid even the sacred name and functions of religion, not, as Providence designed it, to soothe and allay our frailties and faults, but to foment and aggravate every other cause of social and political discord. But he supported the measure, because, although it could not consummate every thing desirable, yet, in his mind, it constituted a valuable and indispensable first step, and was, when in mature operation, calculated to afford the best basis upon which to establish the many other necessary measures of improvement; and, though not perfect in itself, yet he believed all other remedies would be imperfect without it, which, consequently, rendered it an indispensable commencement. He therefore agreed with the noble Lord, the Member for Leitrim, who took so laudably zealous a part in the progress of this measure, and who gave such valuable aid and information during its respective stages, that though it would not realise every
 706 707
 Colonel Verner  had presented several petitions against this bill, and one of those petitions was from the grand jury of the county which he had the honour to represent, and he did not feel it consistent with his duty to give a silent vote on the present occasion. It was charged against those who opposed this bill, that they were opposed to a provision for the relief of the poor. Now
 696
 Sir E. Hayes  said, that the strong objection to the measure in Ireland was to the workhouse system, which it would establish, but he opposed it because he thought it would impose a burthen on the country too great to be borne. It was a serious drawback on it that it did not contain the mendicity clauses. Disapproving of it, he could not give it his support, and he had made these few remarks, because he did not wish to give a silent vote on a measure which was so important for Ireland.
 Sir F. Trench  said, that if the hon. Baronet had not moved the amendment, he himself would have done so, for in his opinion, it was impossible that any measure could be more mischievous to Ireland. It would have the effect of annihilating the property and extinguishing the industry of that country. The English Poor-law Amendment Act was a remedy for the abominable abuses which existed previously The present measure would produce nothing but patronage to the Government, and in that way it would be prolific enough, for it would create not fewer than 840 salaried officers. The proposed sum to be expended in this experiment, as it was called, would not be a drop in the ocean compared with the numbers which would require relief, and when they found, that they could not get it, they would be discontented, and an increased military force would be necessary. What he thought they should do was, to give the people employment, and not render them dependent on workhouses, which would destroy every industrious principle. The Government should do what had been so well recommended by the present Archbishop of Dubllin—that was, reject this Bill altogether, and bring in two Bills in its stead. One of these should enable hospitals and infirmaries to give shelter and relief to the halt, the maimed, the blind, and impotent. The other Bill should be for the purpose of providing employment for the able-bodied.
 678 l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir F. Trench  wanted to know whether it was the intention that ladies should appear in articles of British manufacture? Something ought to be done, as there were at present 50,000 poor weavers in a state
 675
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that it having been decided that the banquet in Westminster-hall on the occasion of the approaching coronation should be dispensed with, he was anxious to learn from the noble Lord opposite whether there was any intention of affording the people an opportunity of witnessing the procession, or any part of the ceremony. He begged respectfully to suggest to the noble Lord the propriety of having a public procession, as the people at large not being admitted into the Abbey, they would be deprived of the opportunity of witnessing any part of the ceremony.
 Sir Robert Peel  hoped, that an opportunity would not only be given for a full discussion upon the general principles of the Bill; but also, that portion of it in which the medical practitioners were so deeply interested. A full opportunity ought to be given for considering that very important question. There ought to be an interval of time between the details of the Bill being laid before them, and the moment when the House would be called upon to take them into consideration.
 Viscount Castlereagh  said, that, for his part, in giving his vote against the third reading of this bill, he had been in no small degree influenced by the feeling that nothing was more calculated to weaken the attachment of the Protestants of the north of Ireland to the English connection than a measure passed by a majority of English Members, without consideration of its details, or the consequences likely to arise from it. He said this, not so much in reference to his own feelings on the subject, but in reference to the population of Ireland, who were easily excited by any grievance which might be urged on their attention by those who took the trouble to do it, and which was of a nature to come home to their hearts. He had witnessed the third reading of the bill with deep sorrow, but he derived no slight consolation from his confident expectation that its provisions would be modified in that place where wicked measures were sure always to find a salutary check.
 Viscount Castlereagh  said, he could not allow this Bill to pass without trespassing for a short time on the patience of the House, as he could not rest satisfied with giving a silent vote on the present occasion. The two great points on which he objected to the Bill, and in which he believed he was supported by nearly the whole of the gentry of Ireland, liberals as well as Tories, were, first, that this workhouse system was inapplicable to the case of Ireland; and, secondly, that the power which it was proposed to give to the whole which would destroy every industrious host of commissioners was one which was not to be admitted. He was perfectly ready to give every credit to her Majesty's Government for their wish to introduce a salutary measure for Ireland; but he could by no means congratulate them on having accomplished the object which they had in view. He was afraid that Mr. Nicholls, differing as he did from other commissioners, had shown only how cursorily he had visited that country, and the slight
 679 680 681
 Lord Clements  had listened with very great regret to the speech of his hon. and learned Friend. He was well aware how unequal his talents were to reply to his hon. and learned Friend, but he must be allowed to express his regret at the attempt to mix up two questions which had not the slightest natural connexion. According to the reasoning of his hon. and learned Friend, they might as well make the establishment of a Poor-law contingent on the arrangement of grand jury cess, or any other impost on land. He would maintain that tithes and Poor-laws had no connexion except in the imagination of the hon. and learned Member. He had just returned from Ireland, where, he must confess, he found the measure very distasteful to a great number of the people; but he had also visited the cottages of that country, and the appearance of misery presented by them, only rendered his conviction of the necessity of a Poor-law stronger than ever. It was impossible for any one to avoid that conclusion, more especially if he had seen the contrast afforded by the residences of the English peasantry. He had listened to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and he did not hear in that speech any substitute for a Poor-law proposed as a relief for the destitute poor of Ireland. That hon. and learned Member opposed the measure as bad in principle; that was the position he meant to combat, as his experience had led him to a directly opposite conclusion. The hon. and learned Member asserted that Ireland was too poor for a Poor-law. He (Lord Clements) denied that; he would not sue for his country  in formâ pauperis 703 l.
 Lord Clements  believed, that the strongest objection would be felt to this Bill. He took that opportunity of saying that he intended to vote against it. He did not expect the Bill could go through Committee. If he were to vote for the Bill, one of the most essential principles of the Bill must be omitted by his hon. Friend. This Bill gave a contract of money to others than those who paid the tax. He could not consent to take the money of the cess-payers, and leave it to the control of those who did not pay cess. He admitted that great advantages must be derived from improving the position of the great medical colleges, and therefore, this Bill would be so far beneficial; but he objected to its introducing the power of taxing the Irish people for purposes of obtaining an advantage for medical people. He objected to the Bill altogether, and was then prepared to go into its discussion.
 Viscount Morpeth  called upon the House to give its support to this Bill, because the object of it was not that which it had been represented to be. They could not have a full and proper discussion on the Bill before it was committed, as they were prepared to make very essential alterations in it. Hoping, then, that his hon. Friend would be allowed to proceed with the second reading, with the understanding that plenty of time would be given for its subsequent discussion, he begged to be understood as no further pledged to the principle of the Bill than this, that he expected they would be able to devise some efficient mode for the inspection of medical charities in Ireland. As to the composition of the Board, and the particular
 722
 Viscount Morpeth  felt the difficulty of addressing the House after the eloquent speech of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin; still he wished to make a few ob-
 685 686 687 688 689 Felix faustumque sit
 Mr. Colquhoun  rose to move, pursuant to his notice, for a Return of all Outrages and Assaults committed on the person, property, and places of worship of Protestant Ministers of all denominations in Ireland; also a Return of all Outrages and Assaults committed on persons engaged in communicating religious instruction to the people of Ireland, from June, 1835, to the present time. The hon. Member said, that, in submitting this motion to the House, he wished to direct attention to a few facts, as bearing most importantly upon the present state of Ireland, and the policy of her Majesty's Government towards that country. It had been said, that the evils of Ireland arose from the continued impost of tithes, in which, it was alleged, all the heartburnings and discords which rent that portion of her Majesty's dominions had their origin. He regretted the absence from his place of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, because he meant to confute the statements of that hon. and learned Gentleman, that nothing could be more fair, just, or impartial, than the administration of Lord Mulgrave in Ireland, and that nothing could be more admirable than the execution of the laws in that country. Upon that subject he would not undertake to pronounce an opinion; he would content himself with stating a few facts connected with, and bearing upon the question. It had been said, he repeated, that hitherto tithes had been the cause of exciting all those feelings of animosity which prevailed in Ireland, and that by settling that question, peace and tranquillity would be established. A few facts would serve to show, that this was certainly a very questionable assertion. What had been the case of an individual wholly unconnected with tithes, he alluded to that of the rev. Mr. Hogg, a curate in the county of Leitrim? That Gentleman drew nothing from tithes, was wholly unconnected with tithes, but had distinguished himself by his extraordinary pastoral exertions, particularly in the erec-
 757 Dublin Gazette, 758 Gazette, Gazette l. 759 760 761 762 763 764 Hear. 765 Gazette l. l. 766 767 l. l.
 Mr. Colquhoun  replied: He would not allude to the personal charges which had been brought against him. With regard to those brilliant metaphors which had been cast upon him by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the marble lion, and the inquisition, and such figures of speech, he could afford to pass them by, as not requiring any notice from him; and as to the statements which had been made by the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman, drawn from some Tipperary newspaper, of the name of which he was ignorant, containing facts which he had never stated, and referring to attacks upon clergymen whose very names he had never heard, to which he had made no reference, and which were no more
 795
 Mr. Langdale  said, that when the hon. Member opposite accused the Catholic priests of taking part in political matters, he should reflect whether the clergymen of the Protestant persuasion were not equally amenable to that charge. The clergy were openly and avowedly partisans, particularly at elections; and he could not see why the Roman Catholic priests should be less at liberty in that respect than those of any other denomination. He could assert, of his own knowledge, that several Catholic tenants in his own borough had been turned out of their houses by Protestant clergymen for the votes they had given at the election. With respect to the charge brought against the Roman Catholics of taking away the Protestant Bible from the Protestants, he could only say, that in this country, and that very recently, something of an equally unjustifiable description had occurred. He would remind the hon. Member, that the chaplain of the Middlesex house of correction had lately stated to the magistrates, that
 788
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the hon. Member for Ipswich had opposed this Motion on two grounds. First, that these trusts were in the nature of private property; secondly, that any abuses that might have crept in were under the cognizance of the Courts of equity, who had the power to administer justice respecting them. He differed from both these propositions, and contended, that those trusts were in their nature public. They were trusts established on a public foundation, and devoted originally to the highest purposes. He knew no subject of higher interest than that to which these funds had been originally devoted. With respect to the next proposition, that in case of malversation there were means within the ordinary tribunals by which all abuses might be corrected—now, than this there could be nothing farther from the truth in point of fact. It was now twenty years since a commission had been appointed to inquire into all charities in this country. Many means had been resorted to, both at the time of its appointment and since, to defeat the ends of that commission, and it was not until recent times, when inquiry had become co-extensive with abuse, that any of the objects of the commission had been usefully carried into effect. That commission ceased to exist in the year
 754
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he could not reconcile himself to voting for the motion of the hon. Member, because it was not consistent with the principles on which they ought to deal with the rights of any persons. The hon. Member for Bridport
 749
 Mr. Goulburn  felt it necessary to trouble the House with a very few words in reply to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman—the most singular speech, he must say, especially considering the speech of the noble Lord which preceded it, that ever it had been his fortune to hear since he had had the honour of a seat in that House. In the opening of his speech the right hon. Gentleman had inculcated the superior importance and obligation of charity, while he had dealt largely in every imputation that could be cast on his hon. Friend, whether as regarded his religious opinions or his political acts, and that in expressions not quite consistent, he thought, with that charity which the right hon. Gentleman professed, and which enforced the doctrine of doing no evil to one's neighbour. But, not content with casting those aspersions on the hon. Member for Kilmarnock, the right hon. Gentleman had extended them to the country of which the hon. Member was a native. [ No, no. 792 793
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that a comparison could be hardly made between the cases of Prince Leopold and that of the Duke of Cumberland, as the grant to the former was a kind of stipulation in the marriage settlement, whilst that of the Duke of Cumberland was a voluntary grant, to maintain him in his dignity as a prince of the blood and a peer of the realm. So long, therefore, as he remained in this country, the public had a kind of  quid pro quo,
 Mr. Warburton  thought his hon. Friend justified in calling for the account, because it was clear that the functionaries who ought to have cognizance of the matter would not examine it in the manner contemplated by the charter.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he was as anxious as any one to maintain the credit and good faith of the country in respect to its engagements; but this annuity had been granted on the condition of the Duke of Cumberland's being in England, but that was not the case now. He had, indeed, become, as far as England was concerned, civilly defunct, and he therefore objected to his receiving this money.
 Mr. Hume  rose for the purpose of proposing the following motion, of which he had given notice:—
 "Return of the names of the persons now forming the society incorporated on the 7th of February, 1662, by King Charles 2nd, by the
 751 752 l. l.
 Mr. Hume , on rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, said that he was aware that questions of the nature of that to which he was about to draw the
 741 l. l. 742 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 743 l. l. 744 l. l.
 Mr. Gibson  rose to oppose it, and to express a hope that the hon. Member would withdraw it. If, however, the hon. Gentleman should press the motion, he should feel it his duty to take the sense of the house upon the subject, as he did not think the return moved for was of such a kind as that House had any right to demand. The hon. Gentleman called for a return of the income and expenditure of a private body; for, although existing under a charter granted by the Legislature, the society was composed of private individuals, the funds also being the result of private subscriptions. He admitted, that there were cases where the Legislature might properly interfere with the funds of corporate bodies; but there were other cases where any interference by the Legislature was highly improper, and in the case of those societies where a statement of their income and expenditure could be obtained by an application to the common tribunals of the country and in the ordinary course of law, Parliament had no right to make demands similar to that contained in the motion of the hon. Member. There never had been any grant of money by Parliament to the society, for, although it existed by a charter, it was supported altogether by private subscription. Its management was subject only to the jurisdiction of the Chancellor, and unless the hon. Member could show that the Chancellor had neglected his duty, and allowed the funds to be misapplied, the House had no right to interfere with the management of the company's affairs. It had been insinuated, that the members of the company were unwilling that any investigation should take place; but he was authorized to say, that they did not shrink from the fullest inquiry, and that they were ready to give every document that might, be called for, to the parties who had a just right to demand them—namely, the Lord Chancellor, and the other persons appointed by the charter to superintend the management of the company's affairs. What he objected to was, the House ordering a private company to give up their papers, when Parliament had
 753
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny had abstained from all political allusions, and had brought forward his motion with good taste and discretion, in reply to which he would briefly state to the House the reason of his opposition to the motion. The hon. Member had said, that the Government should have brought the subject under the consideration of the House, but it would be his endeavour to show the injustice of the motion, and consequently the impossibility of its being introduced by Ministers. The hon. Member, in the early part of his speech, had said, that the present civil list was more expensive than any preceding one. This was a common error, and he would take that opportunity of contradicting the assertion, as the country would enjoy a great saving by the present civil list. The question before the House was, whether or not the annuity could be sus-
 745 746 l. 747 748
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer , in explanation, disclaimed having made any attack either upon Scotland or upon the Scottish character. His allusion had been, not to Scotchmen generally, but to two Scotch gentlemen in particular, Mr. Pringle and Captain Gordon; and he would undertake to prove, that the apostolical mission of the latter gentleman had created, if not all, nearly all, the religious animosity now existing in Ireland. There was another point, also, on which he wished to set himself right with his right hon. Friend. His right hon. Friend had represented him to have denied the existence
 794
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. Gentleman opposite could not be snore earnestly anxious for the diffusion of the principles of the Protestant Reformation in Ireland than he was. But there were individuals who threw obstacles in the way of those religious opinions to which they professed adhesion, and poisoned the sources of what was common to all religious persuasions—religious charity. This was the class of the community whom the hon. Gentleman strongly and naturally represented on the present occasion—those who exaggerated religious prejudices, and wished to add to political division the bigotry of religious dissension. Admiring, as he did, the country to which the hon. Member belonged, admiring it for its eminence in the arts of industry and peace, he must say, that they owed the greater part of the religious heartburnings and animosities which now distracted Ireland to the mischief-making Scotchmen who had come amongst them. Scotchmen, who, judging from their own narrow minds and illiberal feelings, had sought to impart to that country not what was generous and enlightened in their own, but that which was peculiar, and had done more mischief to the cause of religious truth in Ireland than all the exertions of the hon. Gentleman himself ever could remedy. There seemed a fair prospect of pacifying religious differences; the establishment of the Kildare-place Society was a great step to that end, but a mission of Scotchmen had visited Ireland, of whom Mr. Pringle and Captain Gordon were chosen as the apostles, who, in the height of their presumption, in the intensity of their self-confidence, conceived themselves qualified by calling meetings in market-places to settle the most profound and mysterious questions of theology, points on which the wisest men of Christendom had been at issue for ages. He did not hesitate to ascribe the ill-feeling which now existed to the prejudicial efforts of these religious mountebanks. God knew at that time they had enough of political contention; but the spirit of disagreement had not yet worked its way into the frightful arena of polemical discussion. Before
 789 790 791
 Mr. Wyse  rose for the purpose of justifying the mayor of Waterford for not interfering on the occasion, to which the hon. Member for Kilmarnock referred. His interference upon that occasion would, in all probability, have led to a far more serious disturbance of the peace than that which took place, in consequence of the invectives which the preacher in the cathedral cast upon the Roman Catholics whom he had specially invited to hear his discourse. The exaggerated character which had been given to that disturbance by the hon. Member, led him to infer, that there would be similar exaggeration in some of the other outrages which he had described. He reminded the hon. Member that if he really was anxious to spread among the people of Ireland religious truth, the first step which he ought to take was, to treat them with religious charity. If the hon. Member had had any regard to his character, as an impartial man, he would have included in his motion a return of the number of outrages which had been committed upon the national schools in the northern parts of Ireland, and of the number of insults heaped upon the masters of them in the presence of their pupils. Until the hon. Gentleman's motion included a return of that kind, he should consider him as a mere partizan, and not as a friend to the people of Ireland.
 The Solicitor-General , at the risk of incurring the obloquy of the hon. Member for Southwark, felt bound to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. No case whatever had been made out in favour of the motion. If the House were to take up matters which were within the cognizance of the ordinary tribunals, and once overstep the line which left those matters to the proper tribunals, he did not see where their inferences was to end. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had stated that considerable embarrassment existed
 755
 Viscount Morpeth  begged to state, as a matter of fact merely, and not as a matter of reproach, that often as the notice of the hon. Gentleman opposite had appeared on the votes of the House, he had never received from him any intimation that he intended to urge any ground of complaint against the Government in connection with the motion, or that he intended to do more than simply to move for the information which he was both ready and willing that the hon. Member and the House should be supplied with. Having been wholly uninformed, therefore, as to the particular cases which it was the hon. Member's intention to bring before the House, he was not sure that he should be able, with respect to all the cases the hon. Member had mentioned, to join in the discussion with him very fully; but he should not, at the same time, shrink from grappling with the inferences the hon. Member had drawn from his statements. He had no need to observe that many of the details stated by the hon. Gentleman could not fail to excite in his mind, and in the minds, he should think, of every one present, feelings of the deepest concern and of unqualified reprobation. They partook largely of some of the worst ingredients in the bitter cup of human woes and wrongs, religious bigotry and persecution. Too long had that cup overflowed in Ireland; and he was not speaking in palliation of the offences which had been committed, but he was speaking the language of sad experience and consenting history; that in that unhappy country, all sects and parties had, in their time, given but too many opportunities for recrimination, and too many incentives to reprisal. As a Protestant himself, he trusted that he was not wanting in zeal for the honour and welfare of the faith to which he adhered, but he should be still more wanting in truth if he claimed for the Protestants on the soil of Ireland an entire acquittal of the charge of having given offence and of having provoked hostilities from the votaries of the other creed. He would not go very far upon this point however, but he thought it would be found, that if a fair view were taken of the state of Ireland, it would be seen at once that all the wrongs which were complained of did not proceed from one side only. The instances of violence were not confined to the Catholics, but there were numerous instances of disrespect being shown to the Roman Catholic places of worship, and of outrages being
 769 "In the month of September, 1836, it was considered not only useful but necessary to have a bell placed on the chapel of Loughgall, for the purpose of summoning the people on Sundays to morning and evening prayers, as also to toll for funerals. To effect this, a voluntary subscription was set on foot: not only did Roman Catholics, but Protestants, contribute generously. In the beginning of August, 1837, the bell was placed in the belfry, and continued to toll unmolested for some Sundays. But it was clearly observable to all, in the month of September, that the spirit of party, which had been scarcely visible in this neighbourhood, began to appear as openly as ever. Many circumstances tended to arouse this spirit. The beating of drums became much more frequent on Beaver's-hill, Cock-hill, Clonmain, and in the other places where it had been partially discontinued; the Orange lodges, which in this neighbourhood had, indeed, never been closed, were more numerously attended; shooting-matches were carried on at Robert Orr's house, in the vicinity of the chapel; threats were held out that they would soon pull down what the Roman Catholics had raised; an emissary was sent to the Birches to call upon others to assist in wrecking Loughgall chapel. This person, named John Lounsdale, was heard declaring, that all was already planned—that a number of armed men were to come from the Birches, as many from Killyman, to destroy the chapel. This can be attested by John M'Guick, of Derryvinney. The officiating clergyman, having got timely intimation of the premeditated attack, called on the police for assistance; but as their presence was observed, the attempt was postponed to a later time; this first intended attack was on the 1st of September. On the 28th of the same month (September), information was given to policeman Cavanagh, of the Charlemont station, that a party were to proceed that night to the work of destruction at Loughgall chapel; the informant is a respectable Protestant (whose name must remain secret, unless absolutely necessary to be disclosed), who wrote to the captain of the police in Armagh, recommending him to prevent such an outrage. A police force of seven men was sent out, and arrived at the chapel at one o'clock on the morning of Friday, the 29th, just in time to prevent the completion of the deed; the Loughgall police not being there, who did know the localities, and the others not being acquainted with them, gave the wreckers an opportunity of effecting their escape, after leaving all the implements behind them which
 770 The Dublin Gazelle, "On the 17th instant, a number of nice (amongst whom was one named John Shannon) sworn to belong to the Orange Lodge, No. 115, met at the house of J. Lindsay, publican, of Tanderage, in the county of Armagh, and severely beat a man named John Hughes, for refusing to utter profane party expressions; and on the following night, in consequence of the said Hughes having lodged informations for the assault, a large party broke into the house where he was sleeping, and pushing him on the fire, held him there until he was seriously burned." "When the verdict against Mr. Gore Jones was made known, the Orangemen paraded the streets of Portglenone and Kilree on the 28th of June, 1837. They burned tar-barrels, together with the effigies of Mr. Jones and a most exemplary Catholic clergyman, shouting,
 771 "On the eve of St. Peter and St. Paul (28th June, 1837), at Mullyash-mountain, county of Monaghan, a number of children were amusing themselves round a bonfire, which had been kindled in honour of the festival (a Catholic Observance), when some men from a higher position on the mountain, fired a volley, killing two, and wounding two others, all children of an honest and inoffensive Catholic farmer." 772 773 The Tipperary Constitution, "Our vain viceroy is reported to have stated in his place in the House of Lords, that 'no clergyman of the Established Church had received either insult or injury during his abominable administration.' How he could thus dare to trifle with the outraged feelings of her Majesty's loyal subjects, we will not venture to say; but if he made such  ass mull 774 "The Church of Ireland, at the present day, affords as frightful a list of martyrs in the cause of true religion as that given by John Fox. Some hon. Member should move that the list be laid on the table of the House, to show the fell spirit with which the Protestant clergy have been persecuted. The spirits of those men, who, in our own, and in olden times, witnessed a good confession and sealed it with their blood, call upon us, in this season, big with impending calamities, to gird ourselves for the defence of our holy religion—to unfold in the strength of the living God a cause which they sustained with their arguments and cemented with their blood. Protestantism, though slumbering, has in herself the elements of might. Let her awake, then, and quickly. The Philistines of Popery are preparing to pounce upon her, and plunder her of her precious privileges. Let her spread her wings, and be ready to bear down upon her foes. Yes, brothers, let us show, that the spirit of Protestantism, if it has lain dormant, has never been extinguished; but that there are staunch and true hearts among us, who hold religion dearer than their substance. Let us bind ourselves by the name of him who liveth and abideth for ever, to preserve unimpaired the privileges bequeathed us, and to hand down the true religion established among us unsullied to posterity, that it may become to future generations the same blessing and safeguard it has been to the past," The Tipperary Constitution 775 "Having seen a publication in  The Tipperary Constitution 776 777 "The Lords Justices are satisfied that the mayor, in adopting this course, was actuated by a very laudable desire to prevent any disturbance of the public peace; but their excellencies are apprehensive that, in his anxiety to attain this desirable end, he may have overlooked the important object of preserving to every clergyman the free and unrestricted exercise of his right to preach in any place of worship legally offered to him for such pur-
 778 "The opposition to my preaching in this city, arises entirely from the high church and close corporation parties, who perceive that my doctrine being so well received by the intelligent and serious of all parties, was cutting up by the root their exclusive influence. In their first statement contained in the committal, they honestly bring forward the grounds of their opposition, and these are nothing but my religious principles, held by all Presby-
 779 "I have read the annexed documents. The object of the Achill mission is to make converts from the Roman Catholic religion; a most violent and vindictive feeling of a sectarian kind is engendered thereby, and exists between the clergymen of both persuasions who reside in the island, and, as it generally happens, there are faults on both sides. The rev. Mr. Conolly, the parish priest there, represents that his religion and its teachers are held up to the public, and exhibited in the most revolting terms; that tracts are printed and published in the colony; letters inserted in newspapers, and doctrines preached at their chapel, in which the Roman Catholic religion and its teachers are maligned and abused; it is said, that they teach a system of religion which they know to be false; that they keep their poor deluded flocks in a state of ignorance, and withhold the lights of the gospel from them for the purposes of lucre; that they make merchandise of their souls, and they are represented (to make use of the words of my informant) 'as being little better than devils.' This naturally excites in the Roman Catholic clergy a feeling of irritation; and they not only encourage,
 780 781 "Belturbet, July 6, 1836. "Sir,—Feeling aware of the anxiety you have always evinced to preserve the peace of this county, and having, as a magistrate, often experienced the value and importance of your good advice on many occasions, I beg now to state a circumstance which has recently occurred here, in which the peace of this part of the country is vitally connected, and which I beg to solicit from you, as deputy-lieutenant, your assistance and counsel how I shall proceed should a similar occurrence take place, which I have reason to suppose may be the case. On Wednesday the 22nd June, a person styling himself the rev. Mr. Delany, a reformed priest, preached in the Methodist meeting-house against the errors of Popery, inviting all Roman Catholics to come and hear him. A large congregation of persons
 782 783 "I am, sir, your obedient servant, "JOHN FLEMING. "To Alexander Saunderson, Esq., &c. &c.
Deputy Lieut., Castlejamestown." "I have the honour to report my arrival at Killisandra yesterday morning, accompanied by Captain Macleod, C.M., requisition as per copy annexed had been previously sent to Cavan and Belturbet, by the rev. Mr. Saunderson and Mr. Galbraith, for the attendance of the troops. It being the market-day, and for some days previously announced that Mr. Delany would perform the ceremony of the mass in English, disturbance was naturally expected. He commenced at about two and ended at half-past five o'clock. Vast crowds were assembled; and on his return from the meeting-house nothing but the troops, cavalry, and infantry being drawn right across the
 784 "Now, as to the sacrament, mind, my hearers, the Scripture tells you not one bone of our Saviour is to be broken. Though the priest give you fifty pieces of bread, and tell you thereby making fifty little Jesuses; and that they first put it into the chalice, and mix it with the wine, take a drink, and then have a belly full of little Christs." 785 "Reverend Sir,—Will you kindly indulge me with the particulars of the attack made upon your Church, and threatened upon your house and family, on February 3, 1837. What I particularly wish to know is—1st. If you had given any provocation to the Romish party, by preaching against their doctrines? 2nd. If your suspicion lights upon any parties, and whether that party is out of your parish; if the general terms on which you are with your Roman Catholic parishioners are amicable? 3rd. If you can trace any instigation of the priest to the assault? 4th. What steps the Government have taken to detect and punish the offenders? 5th. If you know of any other assault on the persons or property (not tithe property) of the clergy since the summer of 1835? I trust that you will excuse my applying to you on public grounds, and will kindly favour me with an early answer. Address to me, London.—I have the honour to be, reverend Sir, your obedient servant, "J. C. COLQUHOUN." "Sir,—I have to apologise to you for my apparent neglect in delaying to reply to your favour of the 9th instant, but it was caused in some measure by your letter having been sent to a wrong post town, whence it was forwarded by a circuitous route from Dublin, just as I was leaving home on business of importance. In compliance with your request to be informed of the particulars of an attack made upon my church and threatened on myself, I have to mention, that on the morning of January 16, 1837, it was discovered that all the windows of the church of Clonmethan were demolished by a mob during the preceding night. Of course I lost not a moment afterwards in acquainting the Government here with the unhappy occurrence, and the result was, that my communication received most prompt attention. An investigation into the circumstances of the outrage was immediately set on foot, and was renewed from time to time; a reward for the discovery of the offenders was proclaimed and published in  The Gazette; 786 787
 Lord Morpeth  said, that a considerable force had already been maintained in Ireland.
 Mr. Liddell  rose to give a distinct negative to the proposition of the noble Lord who had just spoken, and he assured the House that he did so with an unfeigned sense of the difficulty in which such a course would place him. His connexion with Durham rendered him as anxious to promote the interests of the lessees of church property, as he was to protect the interests of the church. He wished to do justice to both, and it was for that reason that he felt desirous to state his opinion in regard to the conduct of the Government relative to the important question before the House. The present Government was charged on strong grounds with having unsettled many things, and it was certainly true, that they had settled but a few. When, therefore, the noble Lord opposite came forward to propose a Select Committee to inquire into the mode of granting and renewing leases of the landed and other property of the bishops, deans, and chapters, and of the other ecclesiastical bodies of England and Wales, and into the probable amount of any increased value which might be obtained by an improved management—and when he considered the importance of the subject of that inquiry, and reflected on the previous conduct of the Government in relation to other great questions—when he considered all these things, he felt that he had a right to ask what the object was which the Government had in view. That object he had had some difficulty in distinguishing from the speech which the noble Lord opposite had just concluded, and it was only towards the termination of that speech he had been able to form any idea in regard to the object of the noble Lord and of the Government. The noble Lord did not ask the House to give any pledge in regard to the disposal of the amount he anticipated from an improved management of church property, nor did he state with much distinctness how he himself wished the sum which might be derived to be applied; yet he had stated with sufficient plainness his own view of the matter to be, that the money should be applied to the abolition of church-rates. As, however, the question of church-rates had not been brought formally before the House, he should not trouble the House with many observations
 833 834 primâ facie 835 836 l. 837 l. l. 838 839 l. l. l. l. l. 840 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 841 "Neither can I disapprove of the alienation of a portion of the revenues of the see, large as they were in amount, and of late years even increased. A reasonable deduction might be made with great good to the Church, and yet leave a sufficiency for personal and necessary domestic expenses; yet I think a larger sum might have been appropriated, considering the urgent claims which the diocese presents on his fostering care and assistance, to the liberality of the bishop. Perhaps this diocese differs from most others, if not in peculiar features of country, yet in the singular and most appalling frequency with which changes of population take place in it. There is no diocese in which so many thousands are found to lie so scattered as to be thrown at a most inconvenient distance from existing places of worship;
 842 843 844
 Mr. Liddell  moved, at the end of the question, to add the words "with a view of applying such amount to the gradual diminution of the evils which flow from the deficiency in the means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence by Ministers of the Established Church."
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was his intention, after the able speech of his right hon. Friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not to have said one word in reply; but as hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to think, that the proposed application was a desecration of Church property, and that any surplus could not lawfully be applied to the abolition of church-rates, and as this great principle was directly involved in the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman—an Amendment intended to fetter, not the Committee, but the House itself. He (Lord John Russell) would read a few passages from the speeches of hon. Gentlemen opposite. In the debate on the Church Temporalities Act for Ireland, the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire had said, that
 890 "The bishop was entitled to let his land by Act of Parliament. He was sure that the hon. Member would not deny, that it was from an Act of Parliament that the Church derived its power over these leases, and that the Act enacted, that it should not be lawful for any bishop to grant a lease for more than twenty-one years. It had been said, that this provision was intended to prevent the alienation of the property of the Church but what had been the practical effect of it? The practical effect had been, that from a remote period the bishops had been in the habit of anticipating the revenues which, in point of right, belonged to their successors." "That this bill proposed to add to the Church the power of granting leases in perpetuity, instead of confining them to grant leases for twenty-one years only. This would be a great advantage to the tenant, as it would enable him to sell his lease in perpetuity; and it was this very property, which was neither the property of the Church nor the tenant in fee, which the Government were now prepared to sell under this Act of Parliament." "He did not object to the appropriation of some portion of the revenue of the Church of Ireland to a purpose which he considered to be strictly ecclesiastical; and which, he believed, would tend to increase its utility. He was prepared, and he now only repeated those sentiments which he had expressed in the last Parliament; he was prepared, he repeated, to admit, that he thought that no settlement of the question relating to the Church would succeed, which did not involve an arrangement on the subject of church-cess, and vestry rates."
 Lord John Russell : What I stated the other night was, that I thought one of the great uses of a yeomanry was to prevent disturbances taking place, from the knowledge that that yeomanry existed in the neighbourhood. What I stated further was, that I thought in case of disturbance it was far more advisable to resort to a regular force. Of course, I do not mean to say, if a sufficient number of regular forces do not exist in the neighbourhood, it may not be advisable to resort to the yeomanry; but I must still entertain the opinion, that the calling in of the yeo-
 820
 Lord John Russell : Now really what the right hon. Gentleman has just said, makes it necessary for me to state what I had hoped I had clearly stated before. I do not think it is the most desirable force to call out, if disturbance exists: but if there is not a sufficient force in the neighbourhood, then the yeomanry must be resorted to, although I wish another force should be in the neighbourhood.
 Lord John Russell  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a subject of very great importance; and considering that he was then addressing a new Parliament, and that there must of necessity be many Members of the House who had not heard the previous discussions upon the question, he had had some doubt on his mind whether it might not be desirable on the present occasion to go generally through the measures of ecclesiastical reform to be proposed, whether on the part of the Church Commissioners and the Government in conjunction, or by the Government alone, upon the responsibility of the several select Committees which, from time to time, had given their attention to the subject; but, after mature deliberation, he had abandoned that intention, thinking it might be inconvenient to mix up a subject which called for the immediate and undivided attention of the House with other questions which must come at different periods before them for their discussion and deliberation. He, however, still thought that in bringing forward a question of the nature of the present, it would be necessary for him to state, in a few words, some matters which did not of right belong to the immediate appointment of the Select Committee he was about to move for, but to which some allusion was rendered the more necessary by the frequent appeals made to the public, seeking to represent the present ministry as disposed to deprive the church of the property which legally belonged to it, and to apply it to purposes other than those for
 821 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 822 l. 823 824 825 "Almost all the leases of the church estates over England were fallen in, there having been no renewal for twenty years. The leases for years were determined; and the wars had carried off so many men, that most of the leases for lives were fallen into the incumbents' hands. So that the church estates were in them; and the fines raised by the renewing the leases rose to about a million and a half. It was an unreasonable thing to let those who were now promoted carry off so great a treasure. If the half had been applied to the buying of tithes, or glebes for small vicarages, here a foundation had been laid down for a great and effectual reformation. In some sees 40,000 l. l. 826 "The old bishops who remained alive, and such deans and chapters as were numerous enough for the corporation, who had been long kept fasting, had now appetites proportionable. Most of them were very poor, and had undergone great extremities; some of the bishops having supported themselves and their families by teaching schools, and submitting to the like low condescensions; and others saw, that if they died before they were enabled to make some provision for them, their wives and children must unavoidably starve; and therefore they made haste to enter upon their own. They called their old tenants to account for rent, and to renew their estate if they had a mind to it; so the old tenants and the new purchasers repaired to the true owners as soon as the King was restored, the former expecting to be restored again to the possession of what they had sold, under an unreasonable pretence of a tenant right (as they called it), because there remained yet (as in many cases there did) a year, or some other term, of their old leases unexpired, and because they had, out of conscience, forborne to buy the inheritance of the church which was first offered to them, and for the refusal thereof, and such a reasonable fine as was usual, they hoped to have a new lease, and to be re-admitted to be tenants of the church. The other, the purchasers (amongst which there were some very infamous persons), appeared as confident, and did not think that, according to the clemency that was practised towards all sorts of men, it could be thought justice that they should lose the entire sum they had disbursed upon the faith of that government, which the whole kingdom submitted to: but that they should, instead of the inheritance they had an ill title to, have a good lease for lives or years granted to them by them who had now the right. But the bishops and clergy concerned, had not the good fortune to please their old or their new tenants. They had been very barbarously used themselves, and that had too much quenched all tenderness towards others. They did not enough distinguish between persons; nor did the suffering any man had undergone for fidelity to the King, or his affection to the Church, eminently expressed, often prevail for the mitigation of his fine; or if it did sometimes, three or four stories of the contrary, and in which there had been some unreasonable hardness used, made a greater noise, and spread farther than their examples of charity and moderation. And as honest men did not usually fare the better for any merit, so the purchasers who offered most money, did not fare the worse for all the villanies they had committed. And two or three unhappy instances of this kind brought scandal upon the whole Church, as if they had been all guilty of the same excesses, which they were far from." 827 l. l. l. 828 "Hear." l. l. l. 829 l. 830 l. l. 831 832
 Lord John Russell , before he proceeded with the business appointed for that evening, wished to make a few observations upon another subject. He found, that, in consequence of the debate that had taken place with regard to the yeomanry, an impression had gone abroad, that it was the intention of Government, within some limited period, say within a year, to propose the reduction of the yeomanry of the country. Now, he could assure the House, that nothing that had come from her Majesty's Government tended at all to countenance such a proposition. His own opinion was, that it would be better to constitute a militia force on a basis more extensive than at present. Of course, if that militia force were consolidated by means of an Act of Parliament, it would hereafter come to be a question, whether it would be better to keep up that force, and the yeomanry together; but nothing that he had said tended at all to imply, that it was the intention of the Government to put an end to the yeomanry altogether.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that whether the hon. Gentleman and his Friends, or whether those who entertained views different from him and them, were the truest friends of the Church was a question he did not intend to enter upon. It was one upon which it was impossible that either he or the hon. Gentleman could arrive at a just and similar opinion; but he did claim the right to entertain an opinion as to the force of the arguments of the hon. Gentleman, and with respect to some of them he was anxious to offer a few observations to the House, In the first place, he thought it was not quite consistent in the hon. Gentleman to expect that the House would accede to his opinion upon this subject, when he had shown himself to be utterly uninformed of a fact which must be within the knowledge of every other Member in the House. The House would hardly concur with the hon. Gentleman in the assertion that his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel) had, when in office, forborne to adopt measures for curing the evils arising from the unequal distribution of ecclesiastical revenues, because the House would recollect that his right hon. Friend was the minister to propose that a commission should be appointed specially to inquire into the ecclesiastical revenues, with a view to remedy those enormous evils which prevailed in the country, namely, the destitution of the people of spiritual instruction
 848 849 850 851 852 l. 853 854 855 856 857 l. l. 858
 Mr. Hume  said, that if any stranger had entered the House at any time during the delivery of the hon. Gentleman's speech, he would have supposed that the proposal of the noble Lord was to deprive the Church of a part of her revenues. The whole speech of the hon. Member seemed to be a series of complaints against some one individual or the other, who had intentions hostile to the interests of the Established Church. He had no doubt that the hon. Member considered himself to be a good son of the Established Church; but for his part he could not regard the hon. Gentleman to be an honest son of that Church if he sought to support it at the expense of those who were not connected with it. Why did not the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) who was now sitting beside the hon. Gentleman, or the other right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) who was on the other side of the hon. Gentleman, why did not they, when in power, bring forward a proposition to appropriate the surplus revenues of the Church for the benefit of the inferior clergy. Was it ever done? If it ever was done it had not come to his knowledge. He did not know of any appropriation of the revenues of the bishops for the benefit of the inferior clergy. However, that had nothing at all to do with the question before the House. The hon. Member for North Durham had expressed great solicitude for the maintenance of the Established Church. Now, if the hon. Gentleman entertained any real respect for religion, and was anxious to support that Church which he conscientiously believed to be the best, ought he not to evince his sincerity by proposing to give it that support by means which were already in his own power? Was it just and proper to put his hands into the pockets of the dissenters, and rob them of their property, in order to maintain
 845 846 l. 847
 Mr. Pease  cordially concurred with the hon. Member who had just sat down in the sentiments which he had just expressed to the House, that the signatures of the petitioners did represent the opinions of those by whom they were affixed to the petitions; but, at the same time, there was another class of equal importance who complained that they were not fairly dealt with, and that their interests and the interests of the country were not properly cared for. With regard to the remark which had fallen as to the state of ecclesiastical property, he was much surprised to find that any doubt should be entertained on the subject. No person who was acquainted with the state of the county which he had the honour to represent, could be ignorant of the fact that it laboured under very great disadvantages on this subject of ecclesiastical property, and there was no man, he was persuaded, who was not desirous that it should be placed in a position by which justice could be obtained both to the lessors and the lessees. It was said, that no petitions had been presented on the subject, but he had
 865 l. s, d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. "To all this, I take it for granted, you will answer, that the Acts to which I have referred were intended for the benefit of the Church; be it so, and in my opinion so would a proper adjustment for the redemption of the leaseholds. I apprehend that no man of common
 866 "Can it then be doubted, that it is most desirable for the Church, for the lessees, and, above all, for the country, that this dormant capital should be brought into play? We hear and read enough of the advantages of emigration to Van Diemen's Land, to the Swan River, &c., where it is stated, that the surplus capital of England may be so beneficially employed; and are we not constantly taunted with our delays in rendering justice to the unfortunate sister kingdom, where English capital would instantly find its way, if the finest country in the world was tranquillised. Now, I would ask you, Sir, whether it is not quite as reasonable to expect, that this English capital should be brought into action in our own country? What great improvements and advantages would not instantly accrue to England by the enfranchisement of the leaseholds! Every one would have an inducement to adopt a more advantageous system of cultivation, to drain, plant, build, and effect permanent improvements, which have never been applied to the leasehold properties in England, except to a trifling extent, where the property happens to be situated in some thriving commercial district." "I have been induced particularly to refer to this part of the subject from the circumstance that, during one of the discussions in the late Parliament, the improved state of the property of the dean and chapter of Durham at and near South Shields was instanced as a
 867 "But let any one go through the country generally, and he will soon find the leasehold lands are very far short of those in fee-simple in respect to every improvement, and it must inevitably be so. Are men likely to employ their money in improvements whilst their interests are liable to be so affected by increasing fines for renewals? I have no doubt, however, that persons interested in the continuance of the present system will be found to come forward and state it to be their belief that the Church property is as beneficially employed as it could be under any change of management; nor is it to be wondered at that such persons should take this narrow view of the question." 868 s. d. l. 
 
 £ s. d. 
 Cart sold for 4 10 0 
 Church-rate, 1834–5 12 s. 6 d. 
 Cost of summons, order, and warrant of distress, and service of summons and order 8 6 
 Church-rates, 1835–6 11 5½ 
 Cost of summons, order, and warrant of distress, and service of summons and order 8 6 
 Levying distress in both cases and possession 8 6 
 Appraisement 2 3 
 Stamp for ditto 2 7 
 Auctioneer's expenses, advertisements, &c. and expenses of sale 14 3 
 3 8 6½ 
 Balance to return to Mr. Oliver £1 1 5½
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had, with great convenience to himself, and perhaps to the House, also, combined in his speech two questions which were not necessarily combined in the motion now before them. The right hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Oxford had both assumed that no individual could vote for this Committee of Inquiry
 881 882 883
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : If the right hon. Baronet had really any doubt as to what had struck most forcibly at the root of all Church property, and more especially of church-rates, he would refer the right hon. Baronet to the eloquent denunciation of church-rates, delivered in 1834, by the noble Lord (Stanley) who was then sitting by the side of the right hon. Baronet, who had spoken of them as productive of evils innumerable and of discords interminable. He was prepared to contend, that the confusion and agitation which now prevailed on this subject, was not produced by the measure of 1834, or by any conduct of the Ministers, but by the inherent nature of the system. The many evils involved in it had worked out its condemnation, a long time previously to the introduction of any measures to put an end to it. He admitted frankly, even at the hazard of losing some votes, that his wish to go into Committee proceeded from an expectation that by its inquiries they would be enabled to devise a remedy for the evils which prevailed at present, and to find funds for the extinction of church-rates. He admitted that fairly and openly, for he should be sorry to gain a single vote under false pretences. Even if he were not in favour of the plan now proposed by her Majesty's Government, he should say to any Gentleman in whose neighbourhood the present evils of the church-rate system were known, "You may differ from me as to the purposes for which these funds are to be applied, but will you refuse to go into an inquiry which will enable you to ensure a better management of all Church property?" The right hon. Member for Oxford had told the House, that it had no right to inquire into the management of that property, for it belonged to the Church, and to the Church alone. Now, he put it to the House whether it were possible for any man seriously to maintain that argument. Had not the House legislated upon Church property over and over again? What had been the whole course of their legislation from the days of Henry 8th down to those of George 4th? Was it not shown by the long series of enabling and disabling statutes, which had been passed for the purpose of preventing the abuse of the leasing powers of the Church? and would the House now gravely tell him that it had a right to legislate on such subjects without inquiry, and that it had not a right to inquire into them in order to legislate the better upon them after-
 885 886 naiveté, 887 888 889
 Mr. W. Evans  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down seemed to have forgotten what was the real object of inquiry. That object was, to obtain such information as would enable the House to frame some measure for the more advantageous leasing of Church lands. It was only by an inquiry that such an object could be promoted. The right hon. Gentleman pretended to wish for such an object, and still he opposed the inquiry. When the inquiry was completed the property could be applied to the purposes of the Church of England, or perhaps of any other Church. He certainly thought the most rational mode was first to ascertain the value of the property, and then to deliberate as to its disposal. The right hon. Gentleman objected on the grounds that the property vested in the Bishops was their own. He did not know whether the right hon. Gentlemen meant to assert that they had the power to dispose of it. If they had such right he hoped it would be made to assist the welfare of the Church. He thought this inquiry was very desirable on many points. In Durham the Church was supposed to have enormous property, and as there were many misapprehensions respecting it, it was right that the public should have the correct account. He believed, that the Dean and Chapter did not receive one-fourth of the income; this inquiry would set them right. Some Gentlemen might call the supporters of this motion enemies of the Church—he denied that they were. If he had only entered the House while the Member for North Durham was speaking, and had not known at what side he stood, he should have thought he was making a speech in support of the inquiry, and for the alteration of the manner of leasing the Church property. He would trouble the House with a few details as to the manner in which leases of collieries were affected by the Dean and Chapter. The mines were let at 101 l. l. l. l. 859 l. l. l.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny—to whom, as his old opponent on such subjects, he would, with permission of the hon. Member for North Derbyshire (Mr. Evans), first advert—had observed, that if any one had entered the House during the speech of the hon. Member for North Durham he would have supposed, that the intention of her Majesty's Ministers was to rob the Church. Now, he would tell those hon. Members who had entered the House since the hon. Member for North Durham addressed it, that the tendency of his observations was to prove, that the lessees had a qualified independent property in the leases which they enjoyed; that they were subjected to considerable expense from the peculiar nature of the property; and that they were disturbed in the exercise of their rights by the continual agitation of this question; and that negotiations for the renewal of the leases which would have been concluded long before this time, had been in consequence suspended; and to prove also, that great spiritual destitution existed in the county which he represented, and in which the great lessees resided. He did not deny what his noble Friend who introduced the subject had stated, that however the intention of Government might have been concealed by the form in which the motion was couched, there was a general feeling in the country that the question the House had now to
 860 861 862 863 864
 Sir Robert Peel : I beg leave to ask the noble Lord of what use will be the impression that there is a large yeomanry force in the neighbourhood, if there is to be another impression that such force will not be called out.
 Sir Robert Peel  was afraid, the explanation which the noble Lord had given, would not remove from the minds of many persons interested in the maintenance of the yeomanry, the impression under which they laboured, in consequence of the debate the other night. There might have been an apprehension that it was the intention of Government to dissolve that force after a twelvemonth had elapsed; but even if that apprehension was removed, there would still remain another unfortunate impression, because he thought the inference to be drawn from what the noble Lord had stated was, that, if in the case of an unforeseen disturbance, there should be an unfortunate necessity to apply for some stronger force, the yeomanry would not be that force.
 Sir Robert Peel : No, not so. I said that condemning, as that proposition did, the present system of church-rates, the fact of its having been permitted to continue so long without the substitution of a better system for it, had led to agitation which had struck at the root of all Church property.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that there was two questions before the House, and although it might be necessary to take a division on
 869 870 871 l. l. l. l. l. l. 872 l. l. 873 874 875 876 "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that for the repair and maintenance of parochial Churches and Chapels in England and Wales, and the due celebration of divine worship therein, a permanent and adequate provision be made out of an increased value given to Church lands by the introduction of a new system of management, and by the application of the proceeds of pew rents, the collection of church-rates ceasing altogether from a day to be determined by law, and that in order to facilitate and give early effect to the resolution, the Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury be authorised to make advances on the security, and repayable out of the produce of such Church lands." 877 878 l. "It appears from the report of the Ecclesiastical Revenues Commission, that there are no less than 3,528 benefices under 150 l. l. l. l. l. "The most prominent, however, of those defects which cripple the energies of the Established Church, and circumscribe its usefulness, is the want of churches and ministers in the large towns and populous districts of the kingdom. The growth of the population has been so rapid as to outrun the means pos-
 879 "The evils which flow from this deficiency in the means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence, greatly outweigh all other inconveniencies resulting from any defects or anomalies in our ecclesiastical institutions; and it unfortunately happens, that while these evils are the most urgent of all, and most require the application of an effectual remedy, they are precisely those for which a remedy can be least easily found. The resources which the Established Church possesses, and which can properly be made available to that purpose, in whatever way they may be husbanded or distributed, are evidently quite inadequate to the exigency of the case; and all we can hope to do is, gradually to diminish the intensity of the evil." l. l. l. l. 880
 Sir Robert Peel : But I have another word, and I appeal to high authorities—I appeal especially to the authority of the
 891 "Declared that his opinion remained unchanged; and he thought it the duty of the state, by means of church-rates, or of some other public fund, to maintain the buildings set apart for the performance of divine worship in a state of repair" "Whatever might be the anxiety of the Dissenters, they could not have been in ignorance or doubt as to the opinions of the Government. Two years ago Lord Althorp brought in a bill on the subject, in which the principle was declared that Church-rates should not be abolished, unless the State provided a substitute. He had never said anything inconsistent with that principle, or at least anything to lead the Dissenters to suppose that Ministers meant to abolish Church-rates without an equivalent." "or that such an equivalent was to be found in the revenues of the Church." "To that principle he had adhered, and to it he intended to adhere. On various occasions he had explained his views to the Dissenters, and they were satisfied that he did not intend to bring forward any bill that would accomplish their wishes." "One mode of rendering these incomes of the bishops less uncertain, would be to allow the existing leases, both for lives and for terms of years, to expire. But any plan for accomplishing this object must involve the necessity of borrowing money upon the security of the episcopal estates, in order to compensate the bishops for the loss of the fines which accrue to them under the present system, and which form an important part of their incomes. The practical result of such an operation would be to transfer to the parties lending their money that interest in the episcopal estates which is now possessed by the lessees. We are not, therefore, prepared to recommend the adoption of any general measure for allowing the leases for lives and terms of years to expire; although, for the purpose of correcting, in some degree, the inconvenience now arising from the great variations in the annual amount of the episcopal incomes, we recommend that facilities should be afforded for the conversion of leases for lives into leases for terms of years." 892
 Mr. Wallace  begged to express his concurrence in the motion of the hon. Gentleman. The Church of Scotland, he said, particularly called for some measure of the kind. He never knew a clergyman of the Church of Scotland who was not willing to be transferred to a better benefice. [ Great laughter.
 Mr. Pryme  moved, as an amendment to the same clause, that the words "contiguous to" should be adopted in lieu of the words "within the distance of ten statute miles from" in the clause, the object of the amendment being to prevent any spiritual person from holding a benefice with any other benefice, unless immediately adjoining that he already held.
 Mr. W. Williams  would take that opportunity of stating that, by raising the rate of interest on Exchequer bills last October, from 1½ d. d. deficit l. d. l.
 Mr. Law  would feel the highest pleasure in adopting the recommendation of his hon. Friend. He was very anxious that his amendment should be, as far as was possible, in accordance with the general clauses of the bill. He had scarcely been fairly dealt with when it was said by some hon. Gentlemen at the other side that his Amendment was opposed to the principle of the Bill. It was not an opposition to the principle to make such an improvement as his Amendment would decidedly produce. Surely, if an Ecclesiastical person held two benefices within a distance allowed by the Bill, and that it were allowed him to contract the distance, it could neither injure the principle nor the operation of the Bill. In speaking of the individuals whose rights he wished to secure by this Amendment a phrase had been used by an hon. Gentleman, which phrase was very ill applied, in-
 934
 Lord F. Egerton  wished to ask the noble Lord how the distance of ten miles was to be measured. Was it to be reckoned from the boundaries of either benefice, or from church to church? He thought such a point ought not to be left in doubt by the Legislature, and he was the more induced to call the noble Lord's attention to the
 930
 Lord J. Russell  was surprised, that the hon. Gentleman had allowed that there should be any exception at all to the rule which he seemed disposed to lay down so absolutely, more especially when he called to mind the very vague mode of discriminating adopted by the hon. Gentleman, that the "income should not be insufficient to remunerate the service of the officiating clergyman." He did not think it
 929
 Lord John Russell  moved, that the first blank be filled up with the words five hundred pounds.
 Lord John Russell said , that at present it was provided, that a person holding a benefice of the value of 500 l. l. l. l.
 Lord John Russell  could not agree to the proposition of the hon. Member.
 Lord John Russell  had considered the proposed clause, and conceived that its admission would greatly break in upon the principle of the bill, without on the other hand effecting any advantage.
 Lord John Russell  moved, that the first blank be filled up with the words one thousand pounds.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was not necessary for him to enter at any length into the question which the hon. Member for Kilkenny had brought before the House, and he believed, that he might leave a considerable part of the speech of his hon. Friend, which was an answer to
 917 l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. 918 l.
 Lord J. Russell  was of opinion that the Amendment would not be in accordance with the intention of the Bill, nor would it produce the good effects which were anticipated by its supporters.
 Mr. Hawes  said that the object of the Bill would be defeated in spirit by that Amendment. Where the object was to bring two parishes together, the fact of contracting the distance from a hundred miles to fifty or from fifty to twenty-five miles would not surely produce that effect.
 Mr. Hawes  said, that if the suggestions of the right hon. Gentleman were adopted it might have the effect of benefitting a few individuals; but beyond a doubt it would go far towards defeating the spirit of the bill. The clergy might job away, then, to any extent they pleased, so long as the benefices were not within a given distance. He could not accord in those suggestions, feeling as he did so strongly that its inevitable effect would be to protect the grievance which it was intended by the bill to remove. So long as approximation was not insisted on, the jobbing which was so loudly complained of at present might still go on.
 Mr. Hawes  observed, that if curates could perform the duties of a church for a small salary, there was no force in the argument that pluralities were necessary for the incumbents. Church property was only trust property, and if the curates discharged the duties of non-resident rectors and vicars, they had the greatest right to the income of the parish. The Commissioners had admitted the principle of the Amendment of his hon. Friend as to the abolition of pluralities, and Dr. Burton of Oxford had also spoken in its favour.
 920
 Mr. Hawes  could not agree with the noble Lord in considering that cathedral preferments were always bestowed on men of distinguished talent and learning. On the contrary, he believed, that much of that preferment was given in consideration of family and political connections wholly without reference to desert.
 Mr. Hawes  moved as an amendment that the words "exceeding the yearly value of  l.
 Mr. Charles Lushington  moved that for the word "two" the word "one" be substituted.
 Mr. Rippon  proposed, that these words should be inserted:—"Unless the income
 926 927 l. 928
 Mr. Rippon , in explanation, said, that his only object in moving the amendment was to put an end to jobbing.
 Sir E. Sugden  observed, that the hon. Member for Gateshead had entirely mistaken the place in which he should have introduced his amendment, and that therefore he was a little too late in proposing it. The second clause provided, that more than two benefices should not be held together; then the third clause enacted, that they should not exceed a certain value; and now the fourth clause related to distance; here, however, the hon. Member had introduced the question of value. He submitted, that if the amendment were adopted, the whole operation of the Bill would be destroyed by it. Who was to be the judge of the sufficiency of the remuneration? Was it to be the clergyman or the parishioners, or the hon. Member himself? The amendment was totally inapplicable, and could not be supported.
 Sir E. Sugden  did not see, that the amendment struck at any of the provisions which had already passed. If admitted it would be only as an exception, and it
 933
 Mr. Goulburn  agreed with the noble Lord that 1,500 l.
 Mr. Hume  thought, it would be a saving
 924 l.
 Mr. Hume  protested against the proviso as destructive of the principle of the bill.
 Mr. Hume  opposed the proposition, and suggested that the sum should be 500 l.
 Mr. Hume , before the Speaker left the chair, was anxious to state his reasons why he objected to this bill, as it at present stood, and at the same time to move an instruction to the Committee to provide against the appointment in plurality to any person holding any benefice or cathedral preferment. The declared object of the reform which the noble Lord had proposed was, to correct the abuses of the Church, but this bill would not have the effect which every man was anxious to see—namely, an efficient reform of that Establishment. He was satisfied that the Report of the Commissioners of Church Inquiry was, in a great degree, a delusion; for, whilst they held out hopes of a correction of the abuses of non-residence, they proposed only such alterations as would continue the very abuses complained of for a still longer term. He believed, that it was in the power of the Legislature to make such an efficient reform as would furnish the means of obtaining additional religious instruction, of the want of which the House had lately heard so much complaint from hon. Members opposite. Last night, when the noble Lord, her Majesty's Secretary of State, moved for a Committee of Inquiry into the management of Church property, the proposal had been met by an amendment to give special instructions to the Committee to confine the surplus to pay for an increase of religious instruction. The object of those who considered themselves sincere friends of the Church, and who, though they might be friends of an establishment, were not friends of the Establishment as now maintained, was to increase the means of religious instruction of the people, and if this were really the object, he (Mr. Hume) would show, that Parliament ought to take the management of the property of the Church out of the hands of the clergy, who had hitherto been intrusted with the sole management, and had but very inadequately attended to the
 907 908 * * 909 
 
 * 
 RESIDENTS. St. Asaph. Bangor. Bath & Wells. Bristol. Canterbury. Carlisle. Chester. Chichester. St. David's. Durham. Ely. Exeter. Gloucester. Hereford. Lichfield and Coventry. Lincoln. Landaff. London. Norwich. Oxford. Peterbro'. Rochester. Salisbury. Winchester. Worcester. York. Totals of each Class. Total number of Benefices. 
 In the Parsonage House 79 41 176 114 140 60 256 117 74 93 49 308 113 99 215 512 41 286 369 83 153 42 183 176 111 322 4212 
 In the parish within two miles of the Church or Chapel, there being no Parsonage House 13 18 23 12 22 14 186 13 77 23 7 56 24 19 74 45 25 39 58 16 6 8 16 46 6 88 934 
 Total Residents 92 59 199 126 162 74 442 130 151 116 56 364 137 118 289 557 66 325 427 99 159 50 199 222 117 410 5,146 
 NON RESIDENTS 
 By Exemption 23 23 110 60 78 26 80 61 111 21 46 106 61 79 99 325 55 120 264 55 52 20 86 55 40 199 2255 
 By Licence 7 38 29 32 78 19 48 39 52 19 18 77 61 67 62 263 29 109 300 20 51 14 66 56 25 125 1704 
 Sinecures, Vacancies, Suspensions, &c. — 2 44 12 12 2 12 14 18 11 12 23 1 30 60 49 12 11 26 16 24 6 13 14 8 18 450 
 Without Licence or Exemption 10 6 58 22 8 10 52 19 128 21 18 66 24 28 121 73 31 26 53 15 18 8 36 53 30 82 1016 
 Total Non Residents 40 69 241 126 176 57 192 133 309 72 94 272 147 204 342 710 127 266 643 106 145 48 201 178 103 424 5425 
 Total Number of Benefices in each Diocese 132 128 440 252 338 131 634 263 460 188 150 636 284 322 631 1267 193 591 1070 205 304 98 400 400 220 834 10,571 
 Council Office, 28th April, 1837. E. VILLIERS, 
 (Signed) 
 Receiver of Diocesan Returns made to his Majesty in Council. 910 911 * * unsuited 912 which they serve. A great many of them serve two or three places of worship every Sunday; in many churches service is performed only once a day, and that at an inconvenient hour. These abuses exist to a less extent in the southern parts of South Wales; but in Cardiganshire, Radnorshire, and Carmarthenshire, this is the general course of things. Of seventy-one parishes in Cardiganshire (including chapels of ease), not more than  thirty 913 "I do not enter on the scandalous practices of non-residence and pluralities which are sheltered by so many colours of law among us; whereas the church of Rome, from whence we had those and many other abuses, has freed herself from this, under which we still labour to our great and just reproach. This is so shameful a profanation of holy things, that it ought to be treated with detestation and horror." l. l. l. l. 914 
 
 Abstract of the Stipends of Curates serving Benefices where the Incumbents are Non-Resident—for 1835 (pp. 260 of 1837.) 
 STIPEND. No. of Curates. 
 £10 and under £40 103 
 40 80 1441 
 80 100 1075 
 Under £100 2619 
 100 160 631 
 160 200 51 
 £100 and under £200 682 
 200 250 27 
 250 340 5 
 £200 and under £340 32 
 There are paid from surplice fees 2; seat rents 2; and 47 receives the whole income of living 51 
 No returns from 40; 4 receive no stipend 44 
 Summary for non-residents 3438 
 Summary with and for incumbents 1792 
 Making the total number 5230 
 as stated by the Ecclesiastical Commission. l. l. l. l. l. l. minimum l. l. l. l. l. l. 915 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 916 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. The Gazette,
 Mr. Hume  desired to know how many millions of the unfunded debt had been reduced in the last year, and how many it was intended to reduce in this?
 Mr. Estcourt  would be happy to give his assent to the amendment of his hon. an learned Friend if his hon. and learned Friend would consent to add the words "value and population." He fully concurred in the motives which actuated his hon. and learned Friend in proposing the amendment. He was of opinion that it was required as a mode of protection to numerous individuals holding benefices, who certaintly deserved much protection and support at the hands of the Members of that House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  declined answering the last question; but, with respect to the former, he stated, that the debt in 1836 was 28,976,000 l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was carrying his principle farther than he intended. He had no choice but to raise the interest of his Exchequer bills to make them float in the market. However, he never intended to influence the money market by this proceeding.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved, that the sum of 24,440,550 l.
 Mr. W. Gladstone  proposed, that the clause be omitted.
 Sir H. Verney  opposed the motion, but supported the Bill which he considered would prove a great blessing to the country if some of the clauses were rendered more astringent, but that the Amendment would defeat many of its objects, and be productive of great harm to the country.
 Sir H. Verney  concurred in this opinion: the direct effect of the proviso would be to facilitate the holding of pluralities, which it was precisely the object of the Bill to discourage.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, he had the misfortune, or, as his right hon. Friend behind suggested, the good fortune, of only hearing one part of the speech of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. He would, therefore, confine his reply to that part he had heard. In the first place, the hon. Member had read some returns, and argued that plurality of livings plundered the Church and left the working clergy to starve. Now, he recollected that some time since, when certain returns were ordered in the other House, it appeared that one individual held six livings, the annual income accruing from all of which only amounted to 300 l. 919
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that every possible restriction had been imposed by the Act, and there could be no danger in adopting the proposition of his hon. Friend. All that he was anxious for was, to give the incumbents the same privileges which they now enjoyed.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that it appeared to him that the rule which was found best for individuals, in such a case, was also the best for States, that was, to make the best terms they could.
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that he was not prepared to acquiesce in the theory laid down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He did not think there was any necessity or propriety in giving a large interest for money raised by Exchequer bills. It was a dangerous position to adopt, that a Minister was justified in influencing the money market by such means.
 The Solicitor General  remarked, that there was no doubt, as the law now stood, that the distance could be computed from any part of the one parish to any part of the other, but it would certainly be desirable to adopt the suggestion of the noble Lord, and measure the distance from church to church. He believed, that the parish of Halifax was about seventeen or eighteen miles in extent.
 Mr. Pryme  then moved an addition to the clause to the effect of exempting from residence on their benefices, spiritual persons holding professorships and wholly resident within the precincts of the Universities, and annually lecturing therein. There were many professors, such as those of chemistry and experimental philosophy, whose time was engrossed out of term in making experiments on which to found their lectures, and under such circumstances he submitted their residence for such an object in the Universities, ought to be held as equivalent to residence on their benefices.
 The Marquess of Chandos  moved to extend the exemption contained in the clause for the head masters of colleges, and public schools, to the lower masters.
 Mr. Pryme  would not press his amendment.
 Lord J. Russell  objected to the motion on the ground that a party holding two benefices was supposed to reside in one of them during the whole of nine months, the other parish which he held in plurality being at so very short a distance from his first preferment. If he agreed to the Amendment of his hon. Friend, and allowed of three months' absence in the case of a clergyman holding
 962
 Lord John Russell  opposed the amendment as unnecessary. In the schedule of the bill, certain questions as to absence, and the cause of absence, were required to be put annually by the bishop to each incumbent, and those questions, so answered, could, without great difficulty, be returned to Parliament.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he could not concur in the amendment proposed by his hon. and learned Friend. The bill as drawn, had made a distinction between permanent and temporary exemptions, and that distinction the hon. and learned Gentleman by his proposition would do away with altogether. The parties whom the hon. and learned Gentleman sought to relieve, had undertaken two duties—viz., professorships at Universities, and a cure of souls. Now this bill provided, that while the individual who held both these duties should, while engaged, giving lectures at the University, be reckoned as resident on his benefice, yet that when not so engaged, his presence at his cure should
 960
 Lord J. Russell  thought, that there was an unseasonable jealousy about the use of these words. The bill, as it was printed, had received the sanction of the Archbishop of Canterbury. It was an absurd suspicion to think, that any questions would be put which ought not to be put. The Crown had already a greater power by law than would be given by this clause. However, if the Committee thought, that the words should be left out, he should not object to their omission. The words ordered to be struck out.
 Mr. Hawes  objected, that the clause as it now stood did not contain any penalty on the clergyman for refusing to answer the questions put in the schedule. Those questions were put to enable the bishop to make certain returns which the bill directed him to make, and for the omission to make which he was liable to an indictment. If the clergyman could, with impunity, refuse to answer the questions put to him, the bishop could not discharge the duty which the bill imposed upon him. If a clergyman were refractory, and refused to answer all questions, what could the bishop do as the bill now stood?
 Mr. Hawes  moved to add a proviso limiting the value of any benefice to which the clause applied to 500 l.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that although he agreed in substance with the amendment, still there should be some check, lest clergymen might become individual traders, and, in his opinion, it would be advisable to give the diocesan a power of control over any clergyman who had become a trader. As both sides of the House seemed anxious to modify the clause, he should recommend, that it stand over for a short time, in order to give Members an opportunity of considering its merits.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that Gentlemen on that side of the House, had not so included them because they were anxious to reduce as much as possible the number included in the general exemption.
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to the amendment. The parishioners, if they attended church, would not see their pastor in the pulpit, and could easily ascertain the cause, and if such absence was too long, they would by the law created by this bill have a remedy. Surely, the hon. Member would not require a rector to stick up handbills, announcing that he was going out of the parish.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that the whole power of putting those questions was left to the council. The bishop had nothing to do but to submit and put them. He also objected to the clause as it stood.
 Mr. Hume  would move, that in case of any clergyman refusing to answer the questions put to him by the schedule, he
 964
 Mr. Hume : Then what was the use of having a schedule of questions which were to be put to the clergy if they were not bound to answer? It was quite nonsense.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the regulation he proposed was necessary, in order to enable parishioners to ascertain whether or not he was neglecting his duty. It appeared from a return, that no less than 1,016 clergymen' had been absent from their livings, and that even their bishops were ignorant of the causes of their absence.
 Mr. Hume  moved the addition of a proviso to the effect that a clergyman, on leaving his benefice to perform other duties, should give notice thereof, and of the grounds of his absence, in writing to the churchwardens of the parish, who should affix the same in some conspicuous place within the walls of the church.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as the clause stood the deans of all cathedrals and the head masters of Winchester, Westminster, and Eton, schools, and the head warden of Durham University, could hold livings to any amount, and at any distance from their residences; he therefore should move, that the clause be omitted altogether.
 Mr. Courtenay  thought it was necessary that some similar amendment to that proposed by him should be introduced; but if the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) would take the subject in hand, he would withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Courtenay  rose to propose the amendments of which he had given notice, and said, that the clause as it then stood would inflict great injustice on clergymen. For instance, if a clergyman had lent 100 l.
 Sir H. Verney  thought there was no greater hardship on the clergy to answer questions put to them than there would be in putting questions to officers of the army or navy, which they were bound to answer when they related to their duties.
 Mr. East  supported the Amendment, as he thought that clergymen holding cathedral preferment, ought to be put upon a par with others.
 The Attorney-General  admitted, that there was a great deal of point in the remarks of the hon. Member, but as it had been argued by high authorities, that according to the present law if any clergyman should become a shareholder in a joint-stock bank all contracts of that bank would become null and void, consequently it was necessary to put some restraint on the trading of clergymen, and as the amendments proposed would not tend to that purpose, he felt it necessary to oppose the hon. Member's motion.
 Sir R. Inglis  recalled the attention of the House to the petition which he had presented, from the dean, sub-dean, and chapter of the College of Christchurch, at Oxford, praying to be exempted from the operation of the clause. The hon. Baronet observed, that there was this peculiar circumstance about the case of the petitioners, namely, that the chapter of Christchurch was not merely a chapter, but a college. All that they wanted was, as respected themselves, the continuance of the existing law. The hon. Baronet moved an amendment to that effect.
 Sir R. Inglis  thought this clause inquisitorial. Who were to send those questions? The clause gave too much power to the advisers of the Crown, and he would object to it.
 Sir obert Inglis  moved to substitute for the word "five," in line 22, the word "six," in order to give persons who held cathedral preferment, together with a benefice, the same privilege as to leave of absence as was enjoyed by clergymen not having that kind of preferment, but holding two benefices.
 Sir Robert Inglis  moved to extend the exemptions contained in the clause to the proctor, public orator, librarian, or registrar, of the Universities, on the ground that the salary was insufficient, and that it was, therefore, desirable that he should be allowed to hold church preferment.
 Sir R. Inglis  proposed to omit the words beginning in line nine, "together with such other questions as may from time to time be directed by her Majesty in Council."
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the Committee, in coming at a result that might be considered expedient, ought not to establish a bad precedent and a dangerous principle. The great objection to the Court of Star-Chamber was, that it fined a man for refusing to answer any questions put to him, and that it also assumed the power of fining him for any admission against himself. Such a precedent as the hon. Member's Amendment would be a dangerous and unconstitutional precedent, for it was a principle of British law that no man was bound to answer a question which might tend to criminate himself.
 The Solicitor-General  objected to the exemption, as it was necessary that the orator should be constantly resident during the terms, although his duties might only occupy him for a short time each day. If it were intended to exempt him, he ought to have been included in the 27th section, which contained the general exemption.
 Lord Ebrington  thought, that if the Legislature had power to direct the questions, there should be the means of enforcing their answers.
 Dr. Lushington , seeing the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department in his place, wished to ask a question relative to the seizure of certain ships belonging to her Majesty's dominions on the coast of Africa. In the month of July, 1831, there were two vessels carrying on trade on the coast of Africa; and he was informed, that two French vessels of war then came down; that they attempted to compel the English vessels to sail from the coast; that they seized the guns that were being put on board, and ultimately seized the British vessels themselves. In the month of February, 1835, a blockade was attempted to be imposed on that coast by the French Government. A vessel called the Eliza, and other vessels in the trade, belonging to her Majesty's subjects, were then seized. The question he wished to ask was, whether or not the Government had preferred a claim against the French government for reparation, and whether there was any immediate prospect of its being brought to a speedy conclusion? Upon the answer he received, would depend whether he might think it necessary to make any motion on that subject.
 Dr. Lushington  would wait a short time to see what the effect of any communication would be; and if it was not as favourable as he expected, he should bring the subject before the House.
 Mr. Aglionby  agreed, that the further consideration of the subject should be postponed, but not in consequence of the ground that had been urged by the hon. Baronet and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, namely, that the House had been taken by surprise. He denied, that this was the case, for the notice had been on the books several weeks, and it had that night been a considerable time under discussion, and, therefore, the friends of the Church had ample opportunity of being present if they had thought fit. Rather, however, than prejudice the question he would recommend his hon. Friend to consent to the Chairman reporting progress. The truth was that 100,000 l.
 Mr. Aglionby  wished to ask why it was, that no Member connected with Cumberland had been put upon the Church Leases Committee, of the nomination of which
 1028
 Mr. Rice  said, that if a Member for each county were placed upon every Committee, he apprehended they would far exceed the limits of convenience and utility. The right hon. Gentleman then postponed the nomination of the Committee until to-morrow, as was understood.
 Mr. F. Maule  denied, that he had sought to fix any imputation upon the character of the troop in question. The present motion was one, however, to which he could not accede, not from any inconvenience which would result to the Government from the production of the report, but because he thought it would be most inconvenient to the inspecting officers either of the Yeomanry or of any other force that their confidential communications to Government should be made public. He was not aware, that on the occasion to which his hon. Friend had referred, he had drawn any invidious distinction. He trusted he never had been in the habit of drawing comparisons which would hurt the feelings of any per-
 1026
 Mr. F. Maule  said, that the communication which had taken place with the Board of Ordnance with reference to the disbandment of the West Essex troop was a verbal communication between the departments, and not made in the shape of a report. The result of the communication was, that the Ordnance were perfectly able to maintain discipline at Waltham by means of the force upon the spot. The whole of the surrounding villages were occupied by persons who were employed at the works, and whose interest it clearly was to protect them.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, the right hon. Baronet for the sake of having his laugh, had slightly misrepresented him. What he said was, that he was not aware on what occasion the corps had been called out.
 Mr. Baines  denied, that he had done anything that could be construed into taking the House by surprise, for he had given notice of his intention to propose his resolutions upwards of three months ago. He had no wish to avail himself of any paltry advantage by proposing his
 1024
 Mr. Baines  moved, that the Speaker do leave the Chair.
 Mr. Baines  observed that the right hon. Gentleman did not seem to be aware that there were certain resolutions to be proposed, which was already prepared.
 Mr. Baines  said, that after the discussion which had taken place on the subject it scarcely seemed necessary that he should detain the House by any further statements. His object was to submit to the House in Committee certain resolutions which he had taken care should be placed in the hands of every hon. Member before he moved them. He would now hand the resolutions to the Chairman, with a desire that they should be proposed by him to the Committee, and it would be for the
 1021
 Mr. Baines  rose to move, that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to take into consideration the propriety of abolishing the First Fruits of the Clergy in England and Wales, and the more effectual rating, and the better collection, of the Tenths applicable to the maintenance of the poor clergy. In adopting this course to bring the subject under the consideration of the House, he followed the precedent established upon the occasion of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) bringing forward the subject of the Irish Church Temporalities. On that occasion, it was decided, that a resolution of a Committee of the whole House was requisite as the foundation of every measure in any way affecting the taxation of the people. He feared he could not propitiate the House, by promising to trespass but a short time on their attention; for the subject was most important, as involving the interests of a most influential and useful body of men—the working clergy. The principle of first fruits and tenths, was of a date as ancient as the establishment of parishes. The hon. Member traced the history of first fruits and tenths from the period of their earliest institution down to the well known Act of Queen Anne, and read the addresses presented to her Majesty by the convocations of Canterbury and York, to shew what were its objects, and the benefits that were expected to be derived from it to the poor clergy. They were as follow:—
 998 "Address to her Majesty Queen Anne, from the Archbishops, Bishops, and Clergy of the Province of Canterbury assembled in Convocation, on the 15th Feb., 1704. "We, the Archbishops and Bishops of the Church of England, together with the Clergy, do most humbly beg leave to express the great and deep sense that we have of your Majesty's most tender compassion for the poor clergy of this Church, who have hardly wherewith to support themselves in the exercise of their ministry, and of your Majesty's gracious intentions, even by bestowing your own revenue, to make a provision for them, in such a manner as you were pleased to declare in your Majesty's late message to the House of Commons. "We cannot be thankful enough for so singular a blessing as we enjoy, in a Queen who has recommended our holy religion to her subjects, by the great example she has set them; and, particularly, by such signal instances of piety and charity, as not only render her the joy and delight of all true Christians of this age, but leave those effects behind them for which her Majesty will be blessed in all succeeding generations." "Your Majesty not only takes care to preserve our religion in purity, and to protect our Church in all its rights and privileges, but has further taken care also that the ministers of it shall, in due time, have a competent maintenance, the want of which provision was the great, if not the only blemish of our Reformation; and, therefore, doubly blessed will your Majesty's memory be in all succeeding generations. "As we are sure that this pious and charitable act of your Majesty is highly acceptable to God, so we cannot but hope, that it will have its proper effect upon all your Majesty's subjects, and especially upon us the clergy." "There were 11 livings under 10 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 999 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., 1000 l., l., l., l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l., l., "But, whenever that should be done," said they, "we incline to the opinion, that in place of the present tenths, a moderate and graduated impost, according to a valuation more nearly representing the actual income, and upon the scale adopted for the Irish livings, by the 3rd and 4th William 4th., c. 27, might be charged upon all future holders of benefices above the yearly value of 300 l., 1001 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l., l., l.? "Sir—I sincerely hope that one of the pur-
 1002 "While the tithes have been, for years, taken by bishops, rectors, and impropriators, according to the improved value of land arising from the employment of increased capital and skill in its cultivation, the first fruits and tenths, which form the fund for the augmentation of the small livings, or starvings, of the poor clergy, are paid according to a valuation made in the reign of King Henry 8th.—that is, in simple truth, the actual tenths are received, but in most cases, not one-tenth of them, or of the first fruits, are paid to the fund in question; and, while one portion of the church possesses an absurd and superfluous revenue, the other is left in a state of degraded poverty. "It was the duty of the bishops, and other governors of Queen Anne's Bounty to propose, from time to time, new valuations of the benefices, and other offices, and to give thus to the poor incumbents, a benefit of which the dignitaries, and others who did not want it, so largely partook.  * * * "Have they discharged this duty? "To Edward Baines, Esq., M. P." l. Liber Regis. "Sir,—I thank you for the manner in which you have taken up the subject of Queen Anne's Bounty Fund, and the cause of the poor clergy of the Established Church. The eyes of the public only want to be fairly opened upon this subject, to secure speedy and ample justice for those whose cause you advocate. Go on fearlessly. You have a righteous cause in hand, and success will, ultimately, crown your efforts. I rejoice, that amongst the laity, yea, even amongst the dissenting laity, men are to be found who will stand
 1003 
 
 Selection of Benefices with the real value of each, and their respective values as returned in the Liber Regis. 
 Name of Living. County. Clear yearly value. Value paid upon. Sum paid as Tenths. Real Tenths. 
 £. £. £. £. 
 Aldingham Lancashire 1,093 40 4 0 109 
 Aldington Kent 1,014 38 3 16 101 
 Algarkirk Lincolnshire 1,310 50 5 0 131 
 Allcannings Wilts 1,100 31 3 2 110 
 Alvechurch Worcester 1,025 24 2 4 102 
 Alverstoke Hants 1,287 21 2 2 128 
 Ashton-un-line Lancashire 1,407 26 2 12 140 
 Aston Warwickshire 2,075 21 2 2 207 
 Attleburgh Norfolk 1,226 19 1 18 122 
 Barwk in Elmet Yorkshire 1,352 33 3 16 135 
 Bibury Gloucestershire 1,023 13 1 6 102 
 Bingham Nottinghamshire 1,503 44 4 8 150 
 Bothall Northumberland 1,484 25 2 10 148 
 Bury Lancashire 1,937 29 2 18 193 
 Chatteris Cambridge 1,370 10 1 0 137 
 Chelsea Middlesex 1,003 13 1 6 100 
 Doddington Cambridgeshire 7,306 22 1 4 730 
 Edgcomb Salop 2,600 46 4 12 260 
 Feltwell Norfolk 1,207 14 1 8 120 
 Hatfield Bishops Lincolnshire 2,097 36 3 12 209 
 Hilgay Norfolk 1,291 10 1 0 129 
 Halifax Yorkshire 1,628 84 8 8 162 
 Lambeth Surrey 2,277 32 3 4 227 
 Leverington Cambridgeshire 2,099 25 2 10 209 
 St. Botolph without Bishopsgt. London 2,290 20 2 0 229 
 Mepul Cambridgeshire 1,267 3 0 6 126 
 Pulborongh Sussex 1,376 19 1 18 137 
 Ross Herefordshire 1,284 38 3 16 128 
 Rochdale Lancashire 1,730 11 1 2 173 
 Rowley Yorkshire 1,465 20 2 0 146 
 Sheffield Yorkshire 1,285 12 1 4 128 
 Stanhope Durham 4,843 67 6 14 484 
 Upwell Norfolk 3,855 16 1 12 385 
 Winwick Lancashire 3,616 102 10 4 361 
 64,775 1,014 100 4 6463 "These livings yield to the clergy, who are in the enjoyment of them, a clear income of 64,775 l. l., l. s "To this statement the higher orders of the clergy will be ever ready to say, 'We have paid our first fruits and tenths, as the law has directed us, and therefore we have withheld
 1004 "—Parsonage-house, May, 1837. "To Edward Baines, Esq., M. P." l., l. l. l., l. l. 1005 
 
 SEES. Clear Annual Revenue. Payments as First Fruits. Difference. 
 London £13,929 £901 £13,028 
 Durham 19,066 1,638 17,428 
 Winchester 11,151 2,873 8,278 
 Bangor 4,464 118 4,346 
 Bath and Wells 5,946 479 5,467 
 Bristol 2,351 294 2,057 
 Carlisle 2,213 478 1,735 
 Chester 3,261 378 2,883 
 Chichester 4,229 609 3,620 
 Ely 11,105 1,921 9,184 
 Exeter 2,713 450 2,263 
 Gloucester 2,282 203 1,999 
 Hereford 2,516 691 1,825 
 Lichfield and Coventry 3,923 503 3,420 
 Lincoln 4,542 828 3,714 
 Landaff 924 139 785 
 Norwich 5,395 834 4,561 
 Oxford 2,648 343 2,305 
 Peterborough 3,103 373 2,730 
 Rochester 1,450 322 1,128 
 St. Asaph 6,301 168 6,133 
 St. David's 1,897 383 1,514 
 Salisbury 3,939 1,246 2,693 
 Worcester 6,569 929 5,640 l. l. l. l., 1006 "The first-fruits and tenths, since they have come into the hands of the clergy, have been a source of great wealth to the rich clergy, but for the poor clergy they have done scarcely anything. What will be thought when it is stated, that a vast portion of these revenues have been added to the wealth of the highest dignitaries of the land? I say added to their wealth, for such is practically the effect of relieving them, in whole or in part, from the charge of paying their own curates. Of all the abuses in the Church, the grossest is the system of relieving bishops and sinecurists from the maintenance of their own curates by grants out of Queen Anne's Bounty. All the parishes in the county of Carnarvon which belong to the bishops, the dean, and the archdeacon, exhibit these abuses. We are not to consider the present possessors of these benefices as the authors of the abuses alluded to; but it is to be attributed to the system which has lavished the funds of Queen Anne's Bounty, miserable as they are in amount, upon not the poor livings, but the rich livings, to save the pockets of the dignitaries and pluralists of the Church from the payment of their own curates. The parishes of Holt and Iscoed, like Gresford, are in the hands of the Dean and Chapter of Winchester, who derive from them 900 l. l. 1007 l. l. l. l. 1008 1009
 Mr. Cayley  would also recommend the course suggested by the right hon Gentleman who last spoke. He had had great pleasure in voting with the hon. Member for Leeds in favour of his original motion, and although at present he saw no ground for adopting one only of several resolutions, yet he must protest against the suggestion of there being any surprise.
 Mr. Goulburn  presumed that the hon. Member intended to propose the resolutions in committee. He hoped it would not be supposed, from the few observations he had already made; that he agreed with the proposition of the hon. Member. The matter would be fully discussed in Committee, and he would then express the opinions which he entertained.
 Mr. Goulburn  entirely concurred in what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, the Solicitor-General, and objected to the view taken on the subject of first fruits and tenths by the hon. Member for Leeds. He denied that Parliament had any authority or power to take away those imposts for the purpose of applying the money to the use of poor clergymen. He asked if hon. Gentlemen were satisfied as to the justice of the original position, and whether they had weighed the effect which this motion, if successful, would have on other questions connected with the same subject? He did not believe, that any man who had attended to the early circumstances under which first fruits and tenths were imposed could approve of the tax. But by whom was this tax imposed? Why, by the Pope; and it was by him collected, notwithstanding Parliament and the clergy had constantly declared, that its imposition was an act of great injustice. It was well known, that more than half the tax was never paid, and if so, how could it be asserted, that in Roman Catholic times the payment was made according to the full value. At the period of the Reformation, this tax was taken by the Crown; but Queen Anne restored it to the Church for the purpose to which it was now applied—namely, the augmentation of small livings. The question whether or not a property tax ought or ought not to be generally imposed was one which must depend upon a very different footing from the subject of first fruits and tenths. From the hon. Member for Leeds' own showing, it would appear, that to adopt his principle would be to raise the taxation on this description of property from 13,000 l. l. 1017
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Elgin having, during the discussion upon the Ordnance Estimates, stated as a reason for disbanding a troop of the West Essex yeomanry, situated in the neighbourhood of the Waltham powder-mills, that the works themselves furnished a sufficient defence, he was induced to ask the hon. Gentleman, not for the production of a confidential communication, but for the report of the officers of the Board of Ordnance to the Secretary of State, in which they expressed their complete power of protecting the property at the Waltham powder-works in such a manner as to render useless the maintenance of a troop of yeomanry cavalry. The old rule of the House was, that no Minister should refer to any document which he was not prepared to lay on the table of the House, if required; and the hon. Member would allow him to say, that when allusion was made to confidential
 1027
 Mr. Gaily Knight  said: Having been personally alluded to by the hon. Member for Leeds, I feel myself called upon to say a few words; and as the hon. Gentleman distinctly states, that his intention is to apply his substitute for tenths, absolutely and entirely to the same purposes to which the tenths are now applied, namely, to the augmentation of poor livings, I cannot but offer him my humble support. Had the necessities of the Church not been great, had there not been a great number of ministers inadequately
 1012 l. l. l. s. d., l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. 1013 l. l. l. l. foro conscientiœ, 1014 Noli me tangere l. 1015
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that in a Parliamentary sense there was no surprise, but in point of fact there had been. When hon. Members saw the hon. Member for North Warwickshire withdraw his motion, it was considered that there was no prospect of success for the motion of the hon. Member for Leeds, and that if left to itself it would defeat itself. He believed that that was the feeling of the greater number of Members who were now absent from the House, and that that feeling would be testified by the House when this question was again brought under discussion.
 Mr. James Stewart  was of opinion, that under the statute of Anne, a Commission
 1016
 Mr. Hume  hoped his hon. Friend would not trouble the House to divide on this occasion, because it was perfectly evident from what the Solicitor-General had said, that there was no power of proceeding in the way his hon. Friend had suggested. It was undoubtedly in the power of Parliament to pass a bill and new model these matters altogether; but did his hon. Friend think that the Government, after their proceedings of yesterday and the few previous days, in which they had used their utmost efforts to continue pluralities in the Church, and to deprive the poorer clergy of those means which the Government had it in their power to give them—did he think that such a Government would at all listen to his common sense view of this question? It was only a repetition of the late trials he and a few others had in vain made, to induce the Government to act upon the principles of common sense in respect to the establishment of the Church. Could any man consider the Government to be sincere in their wish to put the Church upon an equitable footing after the changes that had recently taken place. The commutation of tithes had given to the Church, according to their own showing, no less than 3,500,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the objection of the hon. Member for Oxford University would apply if any difference of opinion existed on the subject of the resolution now before the House. The resolution, however, was merely "That it is expedient that a better provision for the maintenance of the poor clergy of the Established Church of England and Wales should be afforded than that which at present exists, to be derived from the revenues of the said Church." He would ask whether any hon. Member could do otherwise than agree with the terms of this resolution? If that were carried perhaps no objection would be offered to the course suggested by the hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Mr. R. Palmer 
 1025
 Mr. Estcourt , without meaning at all to question the truth of the resolution proposed, would suggest to the Committee the propriety of the Chairman reporting progress on receiving the resolutions to be proposed, and of asking leave to sit again; and he should conclude the observations which he had to make, with a motion to that effect. Many hon. Gentlemen he knew were impressed with the same feeling, that it was impossible under the old law such a proposition as that made by the hon. Member could be carried, and he thought, that after the opinion expressed by the learned Solicitor-General, there was no question that the law was as they supposed. He could not but express his surprise, that so many had voted with the hon. Member, because if one proposition were more doubtful and important than another, it was the proposition which that hon. Member had made, that this was an adjustment only of the old tax, and not the introduction of a new tax. He believed, that it had been stated that out of the 10,400 livings there were only 4,300 which did pay tenths, and yet the imposing the tax on all livings above the value of 300 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would ask the hon. Member for Leeds whether, under the circumstances, it would be politic to take the opinion of the Committee, when on the face of the case the House would appear, to a certain extent, to have been taken by surprise? [ No, no! 1023
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would say only one word in reference to this matter. He had voted in the minority on the subject the motion of the hon. Member for Leeds, simply on the grounds stated by the learned Solicitor-General, that, even assuming the subject must be considered in reference to the wants of the clergy, the House had no right to put that construction on the acts which was suggested. He had heard nothing in the course of the debate which in the slightest degree tended to undervalue the importance of the pro-
 1020
 Sir R. H. Inglis  differed entirely from the sentiments expressed in these resolutions, and although the beginning of that which was now proposed to be adopted did not certainly present any point very decidedly to be objected to, yet the last clause which it contained, that the funds were "to be derived from the said Church," was one to which he could not agree. He should support the proposition, therefore, of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford.
 Sir R. Inglis  certainly had not anticipated the result at which the House by its division just now had arrived. He owned he was surprised to see the hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Hindley) and others who ordinarily supported most zealously her Majesty's Government, vote against them on this occasion, and leave no less than four Cabinet Ministers in such a minority. His objections to the motion might be confined to two or three sentences. He objected to the levying a property tax upon one class of her Majesty's subjects, which would be the result of the proposition of the hon. Member for Leeds. Again, he objected because such a tax would be an absolute and unvarying tax, unlike the former general property tax. The only point in the speech by which the hon.
 1019 l. l., l., l. ad captandam.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to hear from the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, whether any steps had been taken to settle the international question between England and France as to the mutual rights of fishing in the waters on the coasts of the two countries, and, also, as to the regulations for the protection of the fisheries. This was a matter of great importance, as containing the seeds of dissatisfaction between the two countries. If anything like a bad feeling should arise between the two countries the most evil consequences might spring out of this question, small as the matter might now appear to be.
 Sir Robert Peel  was bound to state his conviction, that the hon. Gentleman had done all he could to satisfy the feelings of the commanders of these troops; and that his remark was a valid one with regard to the confidential communications of inspecting officers. At the same time, he considered it to be highly creditable to these corps to have manifested these jealous feelings upon a subject affecting their character in the estimation of the country. He thought the hon. Gentleman's explanation was quite satisfactory, inasmuch as he had shown that there were no grounds whatever for retaining the Hungerford corps rather than the others. The hon. Gentleman had stated two grounds on which this troop had been kept up—first, that the report stated, that the three troops were good, while this was very good, but then the hon. Gentleman had disposed of this ground by remarking, that the inspection having been made by different officers, no comparison had been made in reality. The other ground was, that this corps had been called out to assist the civil police, but the hon. Gentleman said, he knew no reason why the corps should have been called out.
 The Solicitor-General , although he could not fulfil the expectations of his hon. Friend by supporting his motion, felt bound to state, that he did the most complete justice to the sincerity of his hon. Friend's motives in bringing the subject forward, as well as to the temperate tone and manner in which he had introduced it to the House. He was perfectly persuaded, that in undertaking the subject, his hon. Friend had but one object in view—that of promoting the spiritual happiness of the community at large, by the introduction of a just, legitimate, and useful reform. The grounds, however, upon which he felt bound to oppose his hon. Friend's motion, were shortly these: if the motion had been founded upon the general question of the right and expediency of Parliament to make a more equal distribution of Church property for the benefit of the community at large, he should be ready to say, that he would give to such a subject his most serious attention; but it must be an attention quite unfettered by any consideration that might arise out of the question of first fruits and tenths, or any point that might arise out of the statute of Queen Anne. His hon. Friend, throughout the whole of his address, appeared to have confounded the general abstract question with the question of right under the statutes of Queen Anne and the act of Henry 8th. In order to clear the way before him, he (the Solicitor-General) would call the attention of the House, to what those statutes really were, because it appeared to him to be clear to demonstration that the clergy had now under those statutes
 1010 1011
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that it was quite true, as stated by the hon. Member, that certain vessels belonging to British subjects had been interrupted in their commerce on the coast he had stated. The first was antecedent to a blockade, and the latter after it. He presumed, that it was not the wish of the learned Gentleman that he (Lord Palmerston) should enter into the details of the transaction, but he could state, that application having been made to the British Govern-
 997
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the first question had been referred to Commissioners that had been appointed by the two countries, and which met at Granville; they had not yet come to any satisfactory conclusion, but some matters that had grown up had been referred to the respective governments. There was still a larger question on the subject of the fisheries which had not been committed to the Commissioners, but communications had been made on the subject by the two governments, but he did not feel himself justified in going into any explanations on the subject at present.
 The Marquess of Chandos  said, he objected to this bill on very different grounds from those which the hon. Gentleman
 1030
 Mr. Heathcote  said, that there was a very strong feeling in the great agricultural county with which he was connected in respect to this measure, and surely the farmers were as good judges of their own interest as hon. Gentlemen opposite could be. He must confesss, he had been somewhat surprised at the observations of the hon. Member for Bridport. He recollected that when he was on the same Committee with the hon. Member to inquire into the growing of tobacco in Ireland, that hon. Gentleman contended, that they had a perfect right to prevent persons growing what they liked within their own land, because it was impossible to devise a system like that of the tobacco regulations, without the liability to frauds. Now he thought the hon. Gentleman forgot on this occasion the principle which he had then laid down. He believed the object of those who were parties to this bill was, to repeal the corn laws. He would ask what right had the shipping interest to call upon them to repeal the existing Corn Laws? There was no interest in this country which was so much protected as that of the shipping. The shipping interests had the whole monopoly of the coasting trade. As he had the honour to represent a very large agricultural constituency he was happy to confirm all that had fallen from the noble Lord. He was well acquainted with the feelings of one of the largest
 1032
 Sir John Tyrrell  said, that when he took into consideration the fact, that the parties from whom this measure emanated were the constant advocates of free trade in corn, they could not be surprised that the agricultural interest should be most sensitive on this point. The measure seemed to him to be one which might be fairly considered as proceeding upon the principle of an instalment, to which principle the hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared to be so much attached. When he considered the quarter from whence the measure had emanated, he confessed he could not help regarding it with suspicion. Its chief and prominent object was, to promote the interest of the great millers in the neighbourhood of London, Liverpool, Bristol, and other maritime places; and this boon, he was persuaded, must be granted to commence at the expense of the agricultural interest. He was inclined to hope and believe, that considering the state of prices of agricultural produce at present, the agricultural interest might and would be suffered to rest in quiet. And
 1034
 The Earl of Darlington  said, that as the gallant Member who had brought forward the measure under the consideration of the House had postponed the second reading of his bill from time to time without assinging any reason for the delay which had taken place, he had expected that it would have been withdrawn altogether. As, however, the hon. and gallant Member had not adopted that course, he felt himself obliged to vote against the further progress of the bill. He was sorry to do so, because he was anxious to afford every possible relief to the commercial and manufacturing interests, and because he did not, on the subject under consideration entertain those strong opinions which were entertained by some of those with whom he generally acted. He did believe it possible to introduce a measure permitting the grinding of foreign corn in this country, and which, at the same time, would afford security against fraud, but he did not believe it possible to attain those two objects in a short bill like the present. The bill under consideration ought to have contained some more stringent clauses for the prevention of fraud, and without those it was impossible that the measure could give satisfaction to the agriculturists of this country, or remove the fears which were entertained as to the injurious effects of its operation. There was one objection which he entertained to this bill, and which operated more strongly on his mind than any which had been advanced, and he was astonished that the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had brought forward the measure should not have foreseen that objection, and been on his guard to obviate it. The bill was brought
 1039
 Mr. Villiers  observed upon the state of thraldom in which country gentlemen appeared to be placed by their constituents, not one of whom dared to support the measure, and yet not one could assign an argument against it. Such an instance of restraint upon the independence of Members of that House he had never seen amongst those who represented the large towns. The noble Lord the Member for Shropshire admitted, that the purpose of the Bill might be effected, and that the principle was unobjectionable; yet when called upon to sanction the principle by his vote, he said that from the suspicion which attached to one of its authors, he would not suffer it to go into Committee. Then, the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth said, that he feared the dissatisfaction it would occasion, and he should vote against it; but he said not a word of there being any grounds for that dissatisfaction. He feared the displeasure of those who placed their trust in him. But the hon. Baronet the Member for Kent was the strongest case of all, for he had already stated in this House what he conceived to be the object of this bill, and as distinctly stated, that it was wholly without objection, but after making that statement upon the last occasion he now voted against it, and said he would do so again. He (Mr. Villiers) was glad to think, however, that whatever were the result of the vote to-night it would be beneficial. If the measure was carried it would open to our trade a new channel for employment and profit, and benefit the commerce of the country in a slight degree; but if it was rejected it would perhaps be still more useful; it was just what was now required. What was most wanted was some practical illustration of the working of the Corn-laws, and the spirit of those who maintained them;
 1042
 Mr. Wolverley Attwood  said, he would not have obtruded himself upon the House if it did not appear to him that the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury was totally a failure in its objections to the bill, The hon. Gentleman had spoken as if it were required to give authors an exclusive privilege in their relation to the public, or an unfair advantage over other professions; as if it were sought by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introdued that bill to enable authors to avail themselves of profit from the labours of others. That was not the fact. Nothing could be farther from its import. The object of the bill was to place authors, with regard to their mental labour, on an equality with every other class of men. It was only required to give them that protection which was their just right. It was not a perpetual copyright system that was proposed—it was a bill merely to secure to authors a fair interest in their works, which the present system denied to them. He was glad to find the hon. Gentleman opposite was unable to produce a sounder argument against protecting the author than the want of capital risked in their works. Were not their time, their talents, frequently their health, as much their own as any property could be defined to be, and was not this, in the eyes of every sensible man, an investment of capital? These were the author's property, and merited at their hands protection. The author had as strong a claim for the protection of his rights as any man in society, and yet he was the only person left now unprotected. The argument of the hon. Member for Finsbury, with regard to one person in five hundred, had decidedly the effect of supporting the bill, for if it were acknowledged that of literary men so small a portion was successful it was quite clear the present system worked badly for the authors. It was neither supposed, nor even asserted, that there was any inadequacy of talent amongst the catalogue of our literary characters; and yet it was admitted by the hon. Member for Finsbury, that so small a number as one in five hundred were successful in obtaining the advantages to which they were proposed to be entitled by the Bill before the House. Why, then, should those men, the class of the community with, perhaps, the largest claims, be deprived of a right in their own productions? There had not been a solitary well-founded or solid reason brought
 1067 1068
 Colonel Conolly  moved the second reading of Salmon Fisheries (Ireland) Bill, in which it was advisable to adopt some modification, and hoped it would be allowed to go to a Select Committee when this might be effected.
 Lord Worsley  said, that his hon. Friend, the Member for South Lincolnshire, had said, and said truly, that there was a strong and general feeling against the Bill throughout Lincolnshire. He had been requested by his constituents to oppose the bill; all the agricultural associations of the northern division which he had the honour to represent were against it. It was with pain, that he felt obliged to refuse complying with their request; but as he was sent to that house unfettered and unpledged, he must use his own judgment, and as he firmly believed, that the bill was not calculated to injure the interest of the farmer, he felt called upon to refuse to oppose the bill, and, even at the risk of incurring the displeasure of the majority of his constituents, to support the second reading. He frankly avowed he considered the opposition which the agricultural interest had thought proper to give the measure was more likely to injure them than was the bill. If the people of England found that interest opposing every measure of this kind, and, not content with the existing protection it enjoyed, which he believed the farmers were satisfied with, obstinately resisting measures of justice towards other interests, they would at length call out for a repeal of the Corn-laws. He might have absented himself on the present occasion, but he considered it a duty he owed to his country to attend and vote, though, he repeated, by doing so he was likely to
 1033
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  thought, the amendment moved by the noble Marquess, the Member for Buckinghamshire, was not justified by the nature of the question. The noble Marquess, both on the present and on former occasions of a similar kind, had represented himself to be the organ of the agricultural interest in that House. Now, looking at the nature and circumstances of former debates, and on what had subsequently occurred, he could not help feeling inclined to dispute the claim which the noble Marquess endeavoured to establish; and to believe, that there were many other hon. Gentlemen in that House to whose opinions, and to whose guidance
 1035 1036
 Mr. Strutt  was opposed to the motion of the learned Sergeant. It had been stated, that in a measure of this kind the advantage of the public ought to be held in view, and that in giving this monopoly they ought to be bound by a consideration of the advantages which the public might be likely to obtain. Now, to this he fully agreed. Their sole object ought to be this, and to this the measure ought strictly to be limited. In the course of the debate he had heard the abstract right of an author to his works affirmed; that he was entitled to keep the public from the full benefit of that, which he put forth in the first instance for his private pecuniary advantage. Now, he thought that from the moment an author put his thoughts upon paper, and delivered them to the world, his property therein utterly ceased. An analogy had further been attempted to be established between the property of an author in his works and property in lands; but this appeared to him an analogy of the very vaguest kind, and neither on that or on any other grounds were they justified in extending the term of copyright to such an extent as would be injurious to the public. The case of Germany had been cited as an instance where literature was highly successful, and where there existed a perpetuity in copyright with a view to prove that a perpetuity in copyright was advantageous to literature. He was, however, of opinion that the case of Germany would lead to the opposite conclusion, for throughout most of the states pirating was carried on so extensively, and with such facility, that in point of fact authors possessed no copyright at all,
 Sir Edward Sugden  rose to oppose it. He had thought, that the bill would not have gone beyond a Committee, and as he was much opposed to the bill, he would take the sense of the House upon every stage. The true question to be decided was, whether it were for the benefit of society at large, that a woman should have the absolute right to the custody of her children whatever her conduct might be. Now, he admitted, that his learned Friend (Sergeant Talfourd) had adduced many cases of hardship, but the House ought not to legislate for particular cases, but ought to look to the general benefit of the public, to which end he thought that the proposed bill would not tend. For he thought that it would lead to many separations between women and their husbands, if the woman had this absolute right. It was true, that the bill did not at once give that absolute right, but it gave a power which was even more objectionable; it gave a right to the judge before whom the question was mooted to investigate the whole domestic life of the parties from the time of the marriage to the very day of the application, by enabling the applicant to put affidavits on the file, the charges contained in which would necessarily lead to recriminations. Affidavits would be filed on the other side, and Ultimately the case would become so oppressive that it
 1051
 Mr. Shaw  agreed in the opinions of his right hon. and learned Friend (Sir E. Sugden). He admitted, that there were many cases of hardship which the law did not meet, yet they ought not to legislate on individual cases; and whatever power they gave to the judge, he would have no means of enforcing it upon the husband. He thought, also, that no woman of a delicate mind would submit to call upon a court to interfere and to exercise these powers; and if they gave a legal right to a mother to see her children, the children would be induced to side with one parent or the other, and this would rather widen than heal the breach.
 Mr. Barron  was understood to say, that he had yesterday received a petition from his constituents in relation to the measure before the House, which he had been unable to present before the commencement of the discussion. The petitioners were highly favourable to the measure, and he did not think, that there was any person in his part of the country hostile to the bill. He had always voted in support of the Corn-laws, and he believed that the measure under consideration, so far from weakening the protection which those laws afforded to the agriculturists, would go a great way to conciliate the opposition of the commercial and shipping interests towards the continuance of the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Barron  moved the second reading of a Bill "to Consolidate the Jurisdiction of the several Ecclesiastical Courts in Ireland into one Court, and to enlarge the powers and authorities of
 1046 vivâ voce 1047
 Mr. Barron  begged to state, in reply, to the right hon. Member for Cambridge, that he had not been anxious to introduce this bill; but he certainly thought it was the duty of the House to legislate upon
 1050
 Mr. Goulburn  felt, in common with many hon. Members, a great objection to this bill, and it was not necessary to follow the hon. Member through his excursive speech, as the objection which he entertained was directed against the manner in which this bill had been brought forward. This bill proposed to abolish the Ecclesiastical Courts in Ireland, and to appoint other courts to discharge the duties now performed by them. He confessed, that he was not very fond of encouraging individual Members of Parliament to deal with questions involving a great alteration in the judicial establishments of the country without the sanction of the Government. He had not heard any Member of the Government express his approbation of this bill, and, therefore, on that ground alone, he could not give it his support. But here was another reason why he could not assent to the second reading of the bill. The Government had announced an intention of bringing forward a measure for the purpose of improving the Ecclesiastical Courts in England, and had sent out a Commission to inquire into the working of those courts in Ireland. Now, was it advisable, under these circumstances, that they should be playing at cross purposes, and that an individual Member of the House should, on his own responsibility, bring forward a measure on a subject with which the Government had announced their intentions to deal, acting as they must upon the best legal advice, and possessing all the advantages of official information? He might further observe, that the objects of the Hon. Member's bill were not carried out by the bill itself. The bill professed to consolidate the jurisdiction of the
 1048 Barron
 Mr. Goulburn  was of opinion, that this bill would only apply to a few unimportant cases. The bill would give power to divorced women to see their children, and have control over them. He could not conceive a more impolitic provision. If the father wished to preserve his children from contamination, he should keep them se-
 1055
 Mr. Warburton  thought that the House had a right, at least, to expect from the noble Lord that he should point out how this measure would act detrimentally to the agricultural interest; but he had not attempted to do anything of the kind. The object of this bill, as he had told the noble
 1031
 Mr. Warburton  said, that he should endeavour to have every clause in the bill fully and fairly debated in the Committee, in order that the operation of every clause might be fully understood by the public, with a view, if possible, of defeating the measure before it reached a further stage. He was satisfied the bill was founded on
 1069 pro tanto 1070
 Mr. Warburton  said, that the bill appeared to him most absurdly constructed. It enacted that no person should catch salmon in the sea or in the rivers of Ireland, or within a mile of their mouths; and then follows an exception in favour of those who have fisheries established within these rivers! Now it was well known that the finest salmon were caught in the sea; so that the effect of the bill would just be to prevent them being caught where they ought to be caught. He thought it, however, quite useless to trouble a Committee with this bill when the mover had abandoned the principal clause.
 Mr. Freshfield  was of opinion, that the judges should be given a discretionary power to allow mothers access to their children. It was said, that the bill would facilitate separation, but the present state of the law facilitated oppression, as he believed that the fault was as often on one side as on the other. He believed, that bad wives were not more plentiful than bad husbands. On these grounds, he would not have the slightest hesitation in voting for this bill.
 The Lord Advocate  had heard no argument against the bill under the consideration of the House beyond suspicion; and he would ask whether that was sufficient to justify its rejection? It certainly was not; and was it fair that the commercial classes should be deprived of a certain benefit simply on the ground that fears were entertained of some injury being inflicted on the agriculturists? The noble Lord opposite (Darlington) had said, that sufficient security was not given by the present bill; but he had stated no objection to its principle and its details could be altered in committee. No argument had yet been advanced against the second reading of the bill. The noble Lord considered the name of the hon. Member for Bridport, which was on the back of the bill, a strong objection to the measure; but the bill was brought forward by an hon. Member whose interests were entirely agricultural; and was no measure to be introduced relating to agriculture but by the representative of an agricultural constituency, and by him alone? He was every way disposed to protect the interests of the farmers, but he felt it to be his duty to stand up for the interests of the community which he had the honour to represent, and who were anxious to obtain the benefit which the operation of the bill was calculated to produce. He should therefore support the second reading.
 Mr. Brotherton  believed, that the proposed measure would, in some degree, benefit the commercial interest, and perhaps the agricultural interest also. Operated upon by these motives, he was induced to give the motion his support. He would, however, confess for his part that, if they were to-night to reject the bill, he should be rejoiced, as he was firmly persuaded the oftener the Legislature turned a deaf ear to projects of improvement, and rejected measures such as the present, the greater must be the results which would grow out of the vain appeals of the public to the Legislature. In a word, more sweeping improvements might fairly be anticipated, in consequence of Parliament rejecting less extensive remedial measures. He wished they might throw out the bill for another reason—namely, that by so doing they would hasten the downfall of the wicked Cornlaws, which were so abominable, so impolitic in this commercial and manufacturing country, and withal so shamefully unjust, that it was altogether impossible but they must shortly be abolished. 'The bulk of the landowners and agriculturists, it was natural to suppose, were hostile to this measure, as persons, of course, must be who are deeply interested in maintaining a monopoly for their own advantage. All the anxiety of that class of persons was concentrated in keeping up the monopoly, and thereby sustaining excessively high rents and high prices of necessaries, though the effect of the latter was to reduce to a state of starvation thousands of hand-loom weavers and artisans.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, as this was an opposed bill, he should move the adjournment of the House, as it was too late to go on with it.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that the Administration of the day ought to take charge of a question of such importance as the one now under discussion; but if they neglected to do so, that was no reason why others should not bring forward the subject. As to the objection that the Government having undertaken to introduce a measure respecting the Ecclesiastical Courts in England, the
 1049
 Mr. Milnes  said, that when the hon. Member for Finsbury stated his wish for a renewed consideration of that bill, he must have considered that there was a great dearth of business before the House. In his recollection he did not remember any subject which had been more fully and completely discussed than this had been on the last evening during which it was discussed. He never took part in a debate during which every bearing of a question was more fully gone into or completely entertained than that which he had the honour to join in the other evening. In his opinion the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury, though sufficiently amusing, was certainly not remarkable for anything like a sound argument against the bill. He had adduced some very spiteful and ingenious quotations, but he had also accompanied them with very false analogies. He was not displeased at the speech of the hon. Gentleman. There was a good deal of drastic humour, which was a great treat to the House, and as such he had no objection to hear it; further, his speech had no merit—it had an appearance of being the speech more of a delegate from Mr. Tegg than of a legislator
 1064 d. d. 1065
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  conceived, that it was quite natural that his hon. Friend (Mr. Barron), having been connected with the Committee that sat on this subject last Session, should introduce a bill embodying the result of the evidence taken before them. At the same time, he was aware, that that Committee had not made any report upon the subject. This increased the difficulty of the position in which he found himself placed, for he confessed, that he had not even read the bill; and, if he had, he did not possess the necessary technical knowledge to form a judgment, unaided by others, upon it. Feeling himself in this difficulty, the course he would venture to suggest to his hon. Friend, while admitting the undoubted right of any individual Member to bring forward this question, was not to withdraw but to postpone the second reading of his bill until the Attorney-General for Ireland, who was now absent from indisposition, was in his place, who, he was sure, would, no less from inclination than a sense of public duty, give every consideration to it. The House was entitled to have the opinion of that right hon. and learned Gentleman, who was thoroughly conversant with the Ecclesiastical Courts of Justice in Ireland.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd , if he found the feeling of the House in favour of such a clause, and that its insertion would have the effect of removing the scruples which were at present entertained against the measure, would have no objection to introduce such a clause on the third reading, and leave the House to deal with it.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  moved the Order of the Day for going into Committee on the Copyright Bill.
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd , in reply, said, that the case had been already so fully argued that he need only say a few words upon that occasion. Upon the first introduction of the bill, he had not selected individual cases of great hardship, but he had referred to all the cases which had come before the courts. He knew that women had a strong disinclination to bring their wrongs before a public court, and to claim the last comfort which they could enjoy in this life; it was only, therefore, in cases where the natural feelings of the mother were exceedingly strong, that the courts of law were at present called upon to interfere; but all these cases, without exception, he had brought under the notice of the House in the first instance. His right hon. Friend objected to the granting of this small quantum of justice, because it would tend to promote separation; but the right hon. Gentleman's
 1054
 Mr. Sergeant Talfourd  said, if he had advanced no arguments in favour of the measure on a former occasion, he regretted it so much the less as he found few to answer now. He could find nothing in what had been urged by the hon. Member for Finsbury which did not go to support, rather than impugn the bill before the House; for when he heard from that hon. Member that Milton only got 10 l. l. 1073
 Mr. Wakley  rose to move as an amendment, that the House go into Committee on the bill that day six months. When this bill was formerly discussed, there were but seventy-five Members in the House, and the second reading was carried only by a majority of five. It could not, therefore, be said, that the sense of the House had been expressed upon the subject, and he should now endeavour to ascertain that sense by pressing his amendment to a division. Indeed, when the question had been previously discussed, not one argu-
 1057 l. l. 1058 1059 hon. Member l. Talfourd 1060 Quarterly Review s. d. d. d d. l. d Balwer l. 1061 s. l. l. s. d. New Monthly Magazine John Bull 1062 l. s. d d d. l. s. d. d. l. The Examiner l. s. s. 1063
 Mr. W. F. Campbell  moved the second reading of the Salmon Fisheries (Scotland) Bill, and said, that he had sat on three Committees on this subject, and was convinced of the justice of the Bill. He was open to any suggestions that might be made in Committee.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  opposed the measure, which he conceived to be highly restrictive to the liberty of the subject. He
 1075 l.
 Mr. W. Roche  supported the Amendment, as he deemed the operation of the bill would be to render the use of salmon still less accessible to the poor and middling classes, and to increase the vexatious restrictions apparent in the old law.
 Mr. Praed  said, in the course of the debate the abstract right of authors to their literary property had been broadly stated; but he begged to remind the House, of an authority of some weight on this subject, and that was the report of a Committee of the French Chamber of Deputies which had been appointed last year by the King of France to investigate the subject of copyright. Their report, which was well worthy of attention, stated that on the question of the abstract right of individual authors they had refrained from entering, as they felt that the difficulties which surrounded the subject were too great to allow of their delivering an opinion upon it. But the reporter went on (and he begged the attention of the hon. Member for Finsbury, who had spoken of men of science, to this part of it) to represent that the opinions of men of science, as envier and others, were unfavourable to it. In reply to the hon. Member for Finsbury's argument as to the cheapness of books, he could not perceive the force of it. What were the facts? A book when it became cheap did not necessarily vanish from the market.  Vivian Grey
 Mr. Praed  could cordially support the bill, not seeing in it the mischief which the right hon. Gentleman feared. The question was so far removed from party feelings that he might do so, and he believed that this proposal was calculated to do more moral good than any measure which had for a long time been before the House. The right hon. Gentleman had said, that this question was, whether a woman should have the absolute right to the custody of her children, whatever her conduct might be; but this was nothing like the question before the House, and such a project had never been dreamed of by the learned Sergeant. The only question raised was, whether, when the husband and wife were living asunder, and when one parent had the custody of the children, an impartial person should have power to take the circumstances into consideration, and to give the mother limited access to her children. Was that giving to the
 1052 1053
 Sir E. Knatchbull  believed, that the object of security against fraud, could not be attained by the bill under discussion, and he should therefore oppose the second reading. He was persuaded, notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Bridport, that the measure, as it had been argued by his noble Friend near him (Lord Chandos) would give a bonus to the Foreign growers, and consequently prove injurious to the English agriculturists. The right hon. Gentleman, the President of the Board of Trade said, that full security was given to the farmers by the bill, or that, at all events, it could be altered in committee, so as to insure full security; but he believed, that no such security could be attained by the measure before the House, or by any alterations which it might undergo in Committee, and the House would recollect, that neither the right hon. Gentleman nor any other hon. Member had advanced any proof that the English farmer would be protected from fraud by the bill under consideration. It was said, that the corn was to remain in bonded
 1037
 Mr. M. Philips  did not advocate the second reading of this bill on the principle that it would lead to some alteration or to the entire abolition of the Corn-laws. He believed that great advantages would result from the measure to the commercial and shipping interest of the country and entertaining that opinion and believing that it might be so framed as not to inflict any injury on the agricultural interests he should vote for the second reading of the bill.
 Sir James Graham  on a former occasion, had abstained from voting on a measure similar to the present, because he had entertained great doubts as to the
 1040 1041
 Sir John Rae Reid  wished, in one word, to explain the ground of his vote. He had already voted in favour of the proposition for grinding corn in bond, and he intended to do so again. He had listened with the greatest care and attention to every word that had been advanced in the course of the debate that evening, and he confessed he had heard no reason to induce him to deviate from the course upon which he had originally started. His firm impression was, that a measure like the present would confer as many benefits upon the agricultural interest as upon the commercial. If he thought it would in any way militate against the interests of the agriculturists, he should be one of the last to support it.
 Colonel Seale  moved the second reading of the Bonded Corn Bill. He had already stated the object of the bill, and the benefits which it would confer on the commercial and mercantile world, and in the absence of any reasonable objection to the measure, he should not have thought it necessary to make any observations on this occasion, but for the fact, that he had seen in the public prints the report of certain proceedings which had taken place at a public meeting, which had been called for the purpose of taking this bill into consideration. At that meeting statements were read, and resolutions were drawn up, which could only tend to misrepresent the measure; and it was upon the spirit of those erroneous resolutions that the petitions which had been presented against the bill were founded. At the same time he begged it to be understood that no man was more ready to attach every weight to petitions than he was. He held in his hand a report which had appeared in the  Morning Herald
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, that the arguments of the hon. Member were quite inconsistent with his conclusions. The hon. Member for Finsbury had endeavoured to render the question a party question; but a glance at the former division on the bill would put an end to that attempt, and prove that it was altogether the contrary. It seemed to be the opinion of the hon. Member for Derby, that the whole business of the world was to get as much from authors as possible—to treat them as horses—work them to the last, and then cast them off. The great practical evil of the present law was the effectual bar it placed against improvement and emendation by authors in their own works. An author at present
 1072
 Sir R. Peel  was unwilling to detain the House from the division which was so loudly called for; but having been so pointedly referred to by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, he was desirous shortly to state the grounds on which he should feel it his duty to support the amendment which had been moved by his noble Friend. He confessed that in the first instance he had not entertained any very strong or decided opinion on the subject, one way or the other; and in consequence he had abstained from voting on the motion for the introduction of the bill. The right hon. Gentleman now, however, claimed his support of the measure, on the ground that many years ago his right hon. and lamented colleague Mr. Huskisson had brought in a bill for permitting the grinding of foreign bonded corn under similar circumstances. Now that measure had proved a failure; and it appeared to him, therefore, that it was rather an odd reason for the right hon. Gentleman to assign as a motive for him to become a party to a new proceeding upon the subject, that a former proceeding upon it had been unsuccessful. It had been alleged that the passing of this measure would prove a great benefit to commerce. Now, it was well known that he was not disposed to grudge any benefit to commerce, provided that benefit to commerce was free from
 1038
 Lord Mahon  thought, that when criminal conduct was proved against the mother, she ought not to be permitted to see her children. If some provision of this sort was introduced into the bill, it would tend greatly to obviate the objections against it. Unless that were done, he should be under the painful necessity of voting against the bill.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that if he had any hope of any benefit being effected by bringing the bill into a Select Committee he should not oppose it; but, after the gallant Colonel had consented to give up the principal clause, he did not think there was sufficient substance in the remainder to make it worth their while to appoint a Committee.
 Mr. O'Connell  did not mean to oppose the introduction of the bill of the right hon. Baronet, although he much doubted whether its provisions would reach the existing evils. The right hon. Baronet had described the conduct of election committees previous to the passing of the Grenville Act; but he would ask, whether every part of that description was not equally applicable to the existing state of things? Nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the decisions of election committees at the present day. The right hon. Baronet proposed to form his tribunal for the trial of election disputes out of the same materials as formerly, but he could not consent to the proposition, that a mere change in the mode of election committees would lead to all the beneficial results which the right hon. Baronet anticipated, or that such a change would prove a
 1097 1098
 Mr. V. Smith  fully agreed with the general determination expressed by the House, not to enter upon a discussion of the merits of this measure at present; but he trusted he might be permitted to refer to the question as to whether these tribunals should be constituted of Members of the House, or composed of other persons. He thought it would be perfectly possible to allow all petitions on election matters to be presented to the House, and then to refer them to a committee of lawyers to be appointed by the House, and by those means they would preserve the
 1107 ex necessitate
 Dr. Lushington  said, that there was one conclusion at which he had arrived upon the discussion of this question, and that was, that he never would consent to divest that House of its jurisdiction over election petitions. He verily believed, that it would be impossible to constitute a tribunal which would do justice, and which, at the same time, would not be liable to be controlled by some unforeseen circumstances, when it had once been established by Act of Parliament. But, said his hon. Friend, the Member for Northampton, "I will have a tribunal not consisting of the Members of the House of Commons, but, notwithstanding, appointed by the House." Why, he would contend, that the independence of such a tribunal would be gone the moment it was constituted. If it were appointed by the House, it would be the tool of the majority, and what kind of satisfaction would its decisions, in such a case be likely to afford to the minority. But let them take the other alternative, and suppose a tribunal above the control of the House, parties being, as at this moment, nearly divided. What would follow? Out of the three or five members of the tribunal there might be one—he would not say corrupt individual, though that might possibly happen, but there might be some—misguided person who might take an erroneous view of the law. Suppose, then, a series of decisions took place which altered the majority in that House, and he would say, that, in such a case, he cared not whether the majority was Tory, or Liberal, or Whig, the majority would be unduly altered. He was
 1109 in banco, nisi prius, 1110 usque ad nauseam.
 Mr. S. O'Brien  said, that he had a plan to propose, which, in his humble judgment, would be more effectual in procuring the object all had in view than that proposed by the right hon. Baronet. If he had heard any thing in the scheme proposed by the right hon. Baronet likely to simplify the mode of deciding election petitions he would not now have intruded on the House any plan of his own; but he was convinced that that plan would not remove the present evils, while it would run the risk of creating others now unknown. Therefore, with all deference to the superior judgment of the right hon. Baronet, he must persist in submitting the plan which, in his judgment, was best calculated to promote that object. He felt, that such conduct, on his part, was very presumptuous—but, on the other hand, he thought that all hon. Members would concur with him in acknowledging that public opinion pronounced against the impartiality of their decisions. The
 1115
 Dr. Lushington  cordially thanked his hon. Friend, the Member for the University of Oxford, for bringing under the notice of the House a subject which had too long been suffered to slumber. The horrors of the slave-trade, as well as the number of its victims, he was satisfied, had been under-stated, rather than exaggerated, by the hon. Baronet. From papers on the table of the House, it appeared that 72,000 slaves were annually imported into Brazil, and about the same number into Cuba, making a total of 144,000 into these countries alone, exclusive of those imported into Texas and Mexico, or bred in the United States. The average height between decks in the ships which conveyed these unfortunate wretches was not more than three feet, and he had seen a letter, written within a year, by the Lieutenant-Governor of the island of Grenada, in which a slave-vessel was mentioned, the between decks of which was only two feet high. For every 100,000 imported, it might be calculated that another 100,000 perished in their journey to the slave-ships on the coast and on the voyage across the Atlantic. His hon. Friend had urged the necessity of declaring the slave-trade piracy, and extending the right of search, in order to its suppression. In this he agreed, but he thought it further essential, that power should be given to punish the master and every one of the crew navigating the ship, though it might not have a single slave on board, if its build and equipment were such as proved it to be destined for the trade. With respect to our relations with the United States on this subject, he had less hope than ever from him who presided over the Government of that country, because he could not forget that every expression which that magistrate had used as to the annexation of Texas to the United States was characterised by the most cold, calculating, and unfeeling spirit, which declared that neither he nor the people of the United States would be moved by any considerations of moral
 1142 1143
 Sir T. Acland  rose to congratulate his hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis) on the result of that night's debate, and to express the satisfaction which he felt at the sentiments which had been expressed by the noble Lord opposite on the part of her Majesty's Government. He regretted the line of
 1154
 Colonel Davies  regretted, that the right hon. Baronet had not been able to bring forward a more satisfactory measure. He could not give it his approval. With respect to the general Committee of seven which the right hon. Baronet proposed, by whom were they to be appointed? Why, by the Speaker. Now, could it be denied that the Speaker was liable to be influenced by party bias like all other men, and that his exercise of his power might be open to the imputation of partisanship? As to placing the whole matter in the hands of the judges, that would in his opinion be an equally fatal course to pursue, but, as he had no wish to go into the discussions he would reserve what he had got to say for some future occasion.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  expressed his full and entire concurrence in the principle of the measure proposed by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth. That principle has worked well in reference to the sub-committees on standing orders, and he was disposed to continue to intrust to gentlemen of honour and integrity the
 1104
 Mr. Fitzroy Kelly  said, that as the right hon. Baronet had deprecated discussion, it was not his intention to detain the House, more than a very few moments. The free and unalterable voice of public opinion called aloud for the total abolition of the present system of trying controverted election cases, and he trusted the day was not far distant when that House would sacrifice some portion of its power to its sense of justice, by concurring in a change which was so universally desired. If the House would not go the whole length the country required, it would be impossible to deny, that the bill proposed by the right hon. Baronet was calculated to improve the present system; but while he admitted this, he could not help expressing the concern and disappointment which he felt, that in the able and luminous address of the right hon. Gentleman he did not notice one alteration that seemed to be of indispensable advantage to the just constitution of any tribunal they might devise for the trial of controverted elections, and that was, the appointment of an assessor, or judge, not to deal with the merits, but merely to expound and explain the law whenever points of difficulty arose which involved professional knowledge. He felt assured from the long experience which he had had in courts of justice, that without such an officer any tribunal they might form would be imperfect, and, for his own part, he thought the persons
 1102
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that all must wish to mature a sound plan without reference to party feeling. He concurred for the most part in the general feeling of the House, that in the measure of his right hon. Friend behind him there was much that recommended itself to the attention of the House. He would not enter into any lengthened discussion in that stage, but would content himself with briefly referring to some recommendations which had emanated from hon. Gentlemen opposite. As to the appointment of assessors, hon. Gentlemen had argued rather with reference to the tribunal which at present existed than in reference to that which would exist under the Bill of his right hon. Friend. At present the rule of striking cut the names of the most intelligent Members, and leaving on the committee only those who were least informed on the matters to come under their consideration, and professedly calling upon the Members thus selected to decide legal points of which they were ignorant, rendered it necessary that an officer should be appointed to each committee possessed of some legal knowledge; but if, instead of having on these committees men little
 1116
 Mr. Irving  rose to second the motion. He was understood to say, that, 2000,000 l. 1138
 Mr. Hume  wished to direct the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the immediate and effectual mode of lessening the difficulties which came before committees, by introducing some measure to reconcile the contradictory decisions of the revising barristers. He would venture to say, that out of every twenty-seven decisions upon different points at least twenty-five were contradictory. He was personally con-
 1117
 Mr. Bernal  agreed, that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth deserved the thanks not only of that House but the country, for his endeavours to provide a cure for the radical defects and evils of the present system of conducting the business of election committees. He was surprised at the arguments which had been used in favour of the appointment of assessors, and the reference, in support of that proposition, which had been made to the manner in which the judicial functions of the House of Lords were performed. It was proposed that one learned counsel should preside at each of the new committees; but it seemed to have been wholly forgotten in drawing the analogy that the House of Lords were not assisted by one learned counsel but by the twelve judges. That fact he thought made all the difference, and was conclusive against the argument. No measure could be produced, he admitted, against which objection could not be made; but the question was, would the plan of the right hon. Baronet remedy the effects and get rid of the evils complained of? At best all that could be done was to speculate on contingencies and clauses, but his fear was, that the measure proposed by the right hon. Gentleman would not answer the purposes intended to be effected by it. He believed the evils to be of such a nature that there was no escaping from them, for they
 1103
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had one consolation in having introduced this bill, that whilst most persons admitted the difficulty of the subject, there was no difference of opinion upon the material point, namely, that his plan was a very great and essential improvement on the existing state of the law. The various faults which had been found with the plan proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, were not as comparing it with the present state of the law, but with other plans founded upon other principles, and which had only been suggested in abstract terms, giving them, therefore, a great comparative advantage over a plan of which not only the principle but the details were before them. He, however, thought that the plan of the right hon. Gentleman was not only good as compared with the existing system, but was good as taken upon its own distinctive merits. There were some points, notwithstanding, on which he should wish to reserve his opinion. One of them was as to the appointment of an assessor or judge. Not referring to present times, but referring to the past history of this country, he thought the preservation of the principle which recognized the exclusive jurisdiction of the House of Commons over the elections of its own members, was essential to the preservation of the liberties of the people of England. He could not understand the principle which would transfer to any body of men independent of that House the power of deciding upon the elections of Members of Parliament. The jurisdiction which the House now exercised, could not, in his opinion, be so transferred without endangering the highest constitutional principles of this country, and hazarding the rooting up of the elective and represent-
 1105 1106
 Sir C. Adam  subscribed to almost every word which had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets. He knew from the official documents which came under his own view, that the slaves were crammed into a very small space, and that they remained in that dreadful state of close confinement until they were landed either in the West-India islands or on the continent of South America. He confessed, that it was most desirable that we should put an end to this traffic, and by the employment of steamboats, if that were possible. The first thing to be done, however, was to make such treaties with foreign Powers as would enable us to do what we were desirous to do on this very interesting question. He had not, however, risen for the purpose of saying this, but to correct an error into which his hon. Friend opposite had fallen. He had spoken of the great loss of life which was sustained by our cruisers on the African station; and he was sorry to confirm his hon. Friend on that point. But the loss of life was not so great as his hon. Friend had represented; for he had compressed into three months a loss of life which ought to have been spread over three years.
 Captain Pechell  reiterated his complaints regarding the ungenerous attack made on the character of the naval officers employed on the coast of Africa by a certain noble Lord in a speech made in another place. Well, then, he would not say in a speech made in another place, but in a pamphlet published by the noble Lord, and of which he boasted that thousands had been circulated. He had hoped that the debate might have been permitted to pass over without further allusion to anything that had fallen from that noble Lord, but he continued to think that the aspersions in which he had indulged on the character of the gallant men alluded to, were uncalled for and unfounded. He regretted that the efforts of the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, should be obstructed, and almost invalidated by the conduct of the Spanish authorities in evading the equipment treaty. The Captain-General
 1140 1141
 Sir H. Verney  was gratified, that the subject before the House was brought forward by a Gentleman of such uniform prudence and such universally acknowledged rectitude of intention as his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford. His statements were more than borne out by the papers furnished and by the corroborative testimony of others; and he (Sir H. Verney) had no doubt but many hon. Members could add the weight of their own evidence to tha already produced on this occasion. To those who had ever the misfortune to witness the horrors of a slave-ship the extract from Dr. Walsh's book quoted by his hon. Friend would be found an understatement of the facts. Every naval officer in that service was too well aware of the fearful horrors of the middle passage on board these prison ships, and of the tricks of the commanders and crews to evade search and seizure by the cruisers employed to suppress the trade. The traffic was, however, still carried on to an unexampled extent with Brazil; for, according to the statement of a Brazilian merchant, made to him in a letter received the day previously, there were no fewer than seventeen slave-ships, fully laden, entered for clearing in the port of Rio Janeiro in the last month of 1837. These things should not be allowed to
 1139
 The Attorney-General  was, himself favourable to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, especially as he was of opinion that the jurisdiction, with respect
 1099 1100 1101
 Sir Robert Inglis  rose to move an humble address to her Majesty on the subject of Foreign Slave Trade. He had never since he had had the
 1123 1124 1125 1126 Viva, viva! 1127 1128 1129 "I have the distressing reflection now brought to mind that in no one single instance out of the many representations which I have brought by the King's command under the notice of the Government of Portugal, making known specific cases of encouragement of, or connivance at, this infamous traffic, has any one satisfactory answer been returned by the Portuguese Government, nor as far as I have been able to learn, has any one of the guilty, or suspected, or accused persons, been either proceeded against judicially, visited by any declaration of her Majesty's displeasure, or removed from situations where there exists every reason to believe that this system of encouragement to the traffic in slaves is still carried on in the fullest activity, in direct infraction of treaties, to the disgrace of the national flag, at the expense of the reputation and good faith of the Government, and the honour of the Queen of Portugal." 1130 1131 "This commerce is so deeply rooted in the country, by the influence of individual interest and by habit, that I fear we may not look for any effectual remedy either at the present moment or hereafter from within. From
 1132 "You will add, that the British Government has undertaken the task of putting down this evil, and will not be deterred from so holy an end by any obstacles, which, from time to time, may obstruct its endeavours; and her Majesty's Government sincerely hopes that no circumstances may ever arise which should compel it to treat summarily, and by its own authority, as pirates and outlaws, ships pursuing this traffic, under the fraudulent shelter of the flag of a friendly power." "And you will state, that if this fraudulent use of the Portuguese colours shall continue to be permitted, the Portuguese Government must not be surprised if a flag thus deliberately prostituted to such base purposes, should no longer be respected by British cruisers.' 1133 1134 1135 1136 "That an humble Address be presented to her Majesty, dutifully to submit to her Majesty, that the slave-trade, which the congress of Vienna most justly described as having degraded Europe, desolated Africa, and afflicted humanity, nevertheless still continues with great intensity; that, notwithstanding the various treaties and conventions which have been entered into by her Majesty and her royal predecessors with different powers for the suppression of this traffic; and notwithstanding all the endeavours of successive Administrations at home, and of her Majesty's Ministers and agents in foreign countries, and of her Majesty's naval force employed in this service abroad, the trade has been aggravated in all its horrors; and that it is the opinion of this House, that a general concurrence of the great powers professing Christianity, in a declaration that the slave-trade, by whomsoever carried on, is piracy, and ought to be punished as such, as, under the blessing of God, one of the most probable means of effecting the abolition of that trade. "That this House is further of opinion, that, in all treaties to be contracted between her Majesty and her allies, the concession of a mutual right of search of their commercial vessels respectively, would be another of the means likely to attain this most important object; and that this House most respectfully implores her Majesty to represent these their
 1137 "That this House cannot refrain from expressing to her Majesty the deep concern with which they have observed, from the papers which her Majesty has caused to be laid before them, that Portugal has not yet fulfilled the engagements which she has taken towards this country, by concluding with Great Britain an adequate treaty for the suppression of the slave trade."
 Sir R. Inglis  thanked the House for the attention which they had given to this important question, and he would not trespass further on their time at so late an hour by adding a single observation to those he had already advanced.
 Sir Robert Peel  in reply remarked that the question of registration was perfectly distinct from that before the House. He admitted that nothing was more important than a simplification of the election law, and though the subjects were distinct, he would not say that it was impossible to amend the system of registration, and at the same time to lessen the duties of the tribunals he proposed to appoint. But if there were great difficulties in the way
 1118 1119 1120 pro hac vice, 1121 quamdiu se bene gesserint, 1122
 Sir R. Peel  had devoted as much time as possible to the preparation of the measure which he now sought to introduce, and he held in his hand the result of his labours in the shape of a bill already
 1108
 Sir R.
 1081  rose for the purpose of fulfilling an assurance he had given to the House some weeks before, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the existing jurisdiction of Parliament in respect to Controverted Elections. He begged to be understood, as not proceeding upon the present occasion on the assumption that the House had resolved to maintain within its own power the right of trying election petitions, but rather on the assumption that complaints having been made of the present system as being defective and inadequate to the attainment of justice, it had determined to listen to and consider any proposal which should be made having for its object the perfecting of that existing system, by the removal of its alleged defects. He thought the general wish would be, that every experiment to perfect the present system should be tried and proved unsatisfactory before they consented to part with the power which for centuries past they had enjoyed—that of deciding who were to be the Members of that House. He must confess, that in approaching this subject, which he did with much diffidence, he was, for general reasons, very adverse to any such change as that suggested, without its absolute necessity being first fully and entirely established. In the first place he thought such a course objectionable on the general ground, that it was inexpedient to alter what for many years had been the law, and in the next place he felt the difficulty of devising any tribunal to replace the existing one, which, acting without the control of that House, was likely to be a satisfactory substitute for it. He confessed he could not divine the nature of the new tribunal. Should it be a single judge deciding without the intervention of a jury, or should it be a judge acting in concert with a jury? Should the tribunal be independent of that House or not? In his opinion, to make a judge independent, and to give him a summary jurisdiction in cases of elections, without any power of appeal, would be to constitute another estate within the country to exercise powers of the utmost importance. It would be giving to a single individual a most enormous degree of power, and one which in all probability would be attended with highly injurious consequences. He was now supposing the case of an independent judge; but supposing it was decided to give the trial of Controverted Elec-
 1082 1083 1084 "How often, for instance, Sir, while the merits of a contested election have been trying within these walls, have the benches been almost empty during the whole examination; but the moment the question approached how have you seen the Members crowd eagerly to their seats, and then confidently pronounce upon a subject on which they have not heard a syllable, but in private from the parties themselves! This is not all, Sir; we have frequently seen trials of strength upon some previous question between the friends of the sitting Member and the friends of the petitioner." "And we have also frequently," Mr. Grenville added "I blush while I declare it, seen justice sacrificed to numbers, and oppression exalted on the shoulders of a giddy majority into the sacred chair of legislation. This is a grievance of an alarming magnitude, and I propose to offer a means of redress on a future day to the consideration of this House." 1085 "The claim of a canditate and the right of electors are said scarcely to have been, even in appearance, referred to conscience; but to have been decided by party, by passion, by prejudice, or by frolic, Thus the nation was insulted with a mock election, and the Parliament was filled with spurious representatives; one of the most important claims, that of a right to sit in the supreme council of the kingdom, was debated in jest, and no man could be confident of success from the justice of his cause. A disputed election is now tried with the same scrupulousness and solemnity as any other title." "That Bill, Sir, originated in a belief, that this House, in the aggregate, was an unfit tribunal to decide upon contested elections. It viewed this House, as every popular assembly should be viewed, as a mass of men capable of political dislike and personal aversion; capable of too much attachment, and too much
 1086 hon. Member: "Sir J. Graham.—Have you observed a satisfactory change in the mode in which the business is transacted by the Committee of forty-two on the petition for a bill, as contrasted with the former practice, when the
 1087 "When the allegations in a petition for a bill were disputed heretofore, was not there a canvass notoriously carried on among the Members for the adjacent counties?—Certainly. "Has that canvas, continued under the new system?—I believe it has entirely ceased; I believe it to be as completely successful as any experiment can possibly be. "The great change was the introduction of the principle of selection in lieu of the chance which before belonged to the system?—Yes, and one great change was, that the Gentlemen who composed the Committee of forty-two felt that they were in a new situation, that they were to set an example of the course of conduct which was intended to be a precedent, as far as it could be, for the conduct of the House: that was the doctrine laid down at the time the Committee was appointed. "Your expectations have been fully answered by the change?—Entirely. "Chairman.—Do not you think they have, from the very principle of their appointment, a feeling that they have a trust reposed in them?—I have no doubt of that; I took the liberty of stating it in the strongest terms at the time of their appointment, and they entirely acquiesced in it. I endeavoured to show that no one ought to go upon that Committee who was not prepared to attend and perform the duty, and that no person ought to be upon it, who was not prepared to decide as judge or juryman." 1088 1089 l. l. l. l. l., 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 1096
 Sir S. Canning  congratulated the hon. Baronet on the manner in which his motion had been received; for it was painful to reflect, after all that had been done by this country, that the evil of slavery still continued. Though he had listened with great satisfaction to the general statement of the noble Lord opposite, yet there were some points in that statement which he regretted. He fully concurred in what the noble Lord had said with respect to Portugal, and he trusted that the expression of an unanimous opinion of that House,
 1153
 Viscount Howick  entirely concurred with his hon. and learned Friend who had just resumed his seat, and also with the right hon. Baronet, as to the extreme impolicy of any transfer of jurisdiction upon this matter to any other tribunal, and he confessed that the hint just thrown out by his hon. Friend (Mr. V. Smith) seemed to him calculated to make any such proposition more objectionable than he had at first supposed; because if he understood his hon. Friend correctly, what he proposed was, that some tribunal, consisting of lawyers, should be appointed to investigate and report to the House, leaving it to the House to determine in the last resort whether the judgment given by that legal tribunal should be binding or not. This seemed to be a revival of all the evils that existed previous to the passing of the Grenville Act. If the House should have the nominating of this legal tribunal, it would give rise to all the struggle attending the nomination of the present committees; and, again, when that tribunal should have formed their opinion, they would have a similar struggle upon the question whether the judgment of that tribunal should be binding upon the parties. That he thought would be a more objectionable plan than even the proposition for removing altogether the jurisdiction from the House. But his object in rising at the present moment was strongly to urge upon the right hon. Baronet the importance of considering more fully the inconvenience which would result from omitting that part of the measure recommended by the committee which sat two years ago with respect to the appointment of an assessor. In addition to what his hon. and learned Friend had just stated in favour of that appointment, he would call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the great advantage which might be derived from these assessors as a court of appeal from the revising barristers. He thought the suggestion to this effect contained in the measure of the hon. Member for Liskeard was one of the most valuable and important parts of it. He believed that if they were to have three really good and competent assessors to preside over the meetings of the election committees, and these three assessors were to constitute together a court of appeal in matters of law from the decisions of the revising barristers, they would have the means in a very few years of removing a great number of those questions which led to the presentation of election petitions at all; and
 1112 1113 1114
 Viscount Mahon  said, that although the plan which he meant to propose, differed from both the plan of his right hon. Friend and, that of the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, still he must concur in the remarks which had fallen from the hon. and learned Attorney-General. He agreed that all parties, whether in or out of that House, must feel deeply obliged to the right hon. Baronet, for the pains which he had bestowed on this subject, and the total absence of anything like party feeling, which he evinced in bringing his proposition forward. This testimony from him (Viscount Mahon) was evidence of the latter fact.
 Viscount Palmerston  quite concurred with the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him in the debate, in complimenting the hon. Baronet who had brought forward the motion, for the manner, the god taste, and the judgment with which he had treated the subject; for, undoubtedly, on a question like this, with which party differences had nothing to do, and that it was desirous that the House should come
 1144 1145 1146 1147 1148 nil prosunt leges sine moribus. 1149 1150 1151 1152
 Lord Stanley  also supported the clause, as power was given to the bishop to exempt parishes, in case he thought fit, from the celebration of two full services on every Sunday.
 Mr. Wallace  moved an amendment—"That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the system and management of Parochial Schools in Scotland, and to report before a grant of public money is made for the endowment of additional schools." He was induced to make this motion as the existing system required many alterations and improvements.
 Mr. Colquhoun  admitted, that the parochial system was as bad as it had been described to be, but that only rendered it more necessary that the same measure of justice which had been given to England should be dealt out to Scotland with respect to the subject of education. He complained, that although a sum of 6,000 l.
 Mr. Wallace  withdrew his amendment, on the understanding that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would grant a Committee on the subject.
 Mr. W. Williams  (Coventry) moved the second reading of the Freemen's Admission Bill.
  Mr. Langdale  said, that there was a number of districts in the Highlands and
 1168
 Mr. Law  submitted to the House, whether it would be worth while, merely for the purpose of preventing clergymen from unjustly engaging in secular pursuits—a supposition which he did not think they were fully justified in entertaining—to enact a prohibition which could only have its operation in a few unimportant instances, while, by vitiating contracts of companies of which clergymen might happen to be members, it would place in jeopardy the commercial interests of the country. If the noble Lord was determined to maintain the clause, he would support the amendment of his hon. Friend.
 Lord John Russell  said, that if the fee was not paid by the incumbent it must be paid out of the church-rates, to which he most strongly objected.
 Lord John Russell  did not think the clause would work any of the evil which the right hon. Gentleman apprehended from it. It merely gave to the bishop the power of requiring the appointment of a curate. Where the duties were adequately performed, it was not probable that the power would be exercised; but, although one clergyman might be assiduous in the discharge of his duties, he might have a successor of a different character.
 Lord J. Russell  had to observe, that the advances already made to the Poor-law Unions, for the erection of workhouses,
 1161
 Colonel Sibthorp remarked, that in some parishes, during the winter, if two sermons were preached, there would be no one to hear the second sermon but the preacher himself, the clerk, and perhaps the sexton.
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose, to move a clause of which he had given notice, to the effect, that the widow or representative of a deceased incumbent should have the power of residing, free of all charges, &c., in the glebe-house, and keeping possession of such land as might have been in the actual occupation of the incumbent at his death, not exceeding ten acres, for the space of three months. The period might be less if the House thought proper, but possession for some time should undoubtedly be granted, to afford to the widow of an incumbent time to settle herself elsewhere. The hon. and gallant Officer mentioned an instance of a patron having held out threats against an incumbent who disobliged him, which he carried into effect upon the incumbent's death by immediately dispossessing his widow and family of their place of residence.
 Sir E. Sugden  admitted, that the clause had been introduced with a good object, but did not think that that object would be attained by the clause as it stood at present. He felt, that it should be qualified, and with all deference to his hon. Friend who had moved the amendment, and without wishing to impose upon the noble Lord his (Sir E. Sugden's) view of the subject, he would, upon the third reading of the Bill, propose a clause having the same object as the present one, but in a modified shape.
 Sir E. Sugden  suggested, that the fee be reduced to two shillings.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that as the opinion of the house seemed not to be in accordance with his own, he did not wish to put hon. Members to the trouble of dividing, though he still retained his own opinion.
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to the power. There were many cases in which a clergyman possessing a benefice was able to perform the duties of two churches or chapels; and it would be hard to compel him to appoint a curate at the sacrifice of a fourth of his income.
 Mr. Courtenay  moved an amendment, to strike out so much of the clause as rendered void bargains made by spiritual persons engaged in trade, and adding to the clause a proviso exempting from the operation of the Bill such cases of trading or dealing on the part of clergymen as shall be carried on by or on behalf of any number of partners exceeding six, or where any trade or dealing, or share in any trade or dealing, devolves on spiritual persons by demise, bequest, settlement, marriage, bankruptcy, or insolvency, The hon. and learned Member put several hypothetical cases in illustration of the hardships to which clergymen were exposed by the
 1164
 Mr. Milnes  was of opinion that the most important part of a clergyman's duty was that of preparing his parishioners to join with advantage in the observances of the Sabbath, and not of preaching sermons. He admitted that sermons were very, attractive, but they should recollect
 1162
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained by saying, that they intended to have applied to the Church Commission, which had been appointed to superintend the building of churches in these forty-one parishes, for information on this subject, as to the best mode of establishing those schools, but, at that time, the Commission had ceased to exist, and it had been since proposed to found schools of a different kind. He had introduced this Bill in redemption of his pledge to do all in his power for the establishment and maintenance of education in Scotland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, the hon. Member would have been convinced of the necessity of this measure, if the hon. Member had had an opportunity of hearing the statements of the deputation which had pressed the subject on his attention, composed of gentlemen from all parts of Scotland. He had been asked to place the schools which it was proposed to establish by this Bill under the regulation of the General Assembly, but he preferred abiding by the old Scottish parochial system. It was true, that that system was defective in many particulars; he believed, that was admitted by all parties. A good normal seminary for the instruction of the masters of parochial schools was much wanted in Scotland, and it was also to be wished, that the school-books used should be published at a cheaper rate. As to the permanent appointment of the masters, he thought such a system very inexpedient, particularly where the persons selected belonged to the humbler classes. But he could not allude to the system without acknowledging the benefits which it had conferred on Scotland. It had given to that part of the empire a great ascendancy as regarded education. He could not consent to any motion which might involve a principle adverse to that on which the Scottish parochial system of education was
 1167
 Mr. Gillon  was opposed to the bill, and would move, that it be read a second time that day six months, for he could not consent to the principle which would be affirmed if they proceeded with the second reading at once. He objected to any grant of public money being made in aid of a system so defective as that of the parochial system of Scotland. If any grant were made, the most desirable mode would be, to leave it to the management of the Treasury, or of a board, which might be easily appointed, at Edinburgh; and if that were done, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would satisfy all parties in Scotland.
 Mr. Gillon  moved as an amendment that the bill be read a second time that day six months.
 Sir C. Burrell  supported the clause, and thought it expedient and just, that some
 1165
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that perfect freedom existed on this point already in Scotland, and that, whenever the parents of a child expressed a wish to that effect, he was not obliged to learn the assembly catechism.
 Sir J. Graham  wished, before the Budget was brought forward, to call the attention of the Government to a matter of some importance connected with the enlargement and improvement of the several Workhouses throughout England and Wales. He believed it was the general impression that much of the success of the Poor-law Amendment Act depended upon every facility being given for the erection of workhouses. The Government, in the first instance, arranged that the sums to be lent the Unions for the purpose of building workhouses should be repaid within ten years from the period the advance was made; but, subsequently, on several representations being made that this time was too short, and that it was expedient to give the Unions every facility, it was extended to twenty-one years. He was informed, within the last few days, that very recently applications had been made from various Unions for advances, in conformity with the Act of last session, but it would appear those advances were refused, on the ground that there was no further sum available for the purposes of such works. Now, before the budget was brought on, he was anxious to direct attention to this matter, and he did so in the hope that some arrangement might be made for continuing to the Unions the assistance they required.
 Sir R. Inglis  objected to the clause, because it was a Parliamentary interference with the regulations of the Church, which would not be tolerated by any Roman Catholic, Baptist, or Independent congregation. He concurred in the opinion, that the subject ought to be left to the discretion of the ecclesiastical authorities.
 Sir R. Inglis  objected to the registrar being entitled to receive from the incumbent of a benefice ten shillings for every copy of the grant of a licence or revocation to a curate. He should move an amendment to this part of the clause.
 Sir T. Acland  rose and moved that the resolutions of the 7th and 8th of April, 1835, be entered as read. [" Read, read. "That any surplus revenue of the present Church Establishment in Ireland, not required for the spiritual care of its members, be applied to the moral and religious education of all classes of the people, without distinction of religious persuasion, providing for the resumption of such surplus, or of any such part of it as may be required by an increase in the number of the members of the Established Church. "That it is the opinion of this House, that no measure on the subject of tithes in Ireland can tend to a satisfactory and final adjustment which does not embody the principle contained in the foregoing resolution."
 Sir T. Acland  said, that if the simple proposition of moving the rescinding of those resolutions to which from the first time he had heard them he had always entertained the strongest objections, he could suppose himself to be instrumental, in the slightest degree, to the maintenance or support of a harsh mode of government in that part of the United Kingdom, which for years past had been the most interesting portion of the community, he should, indeed, shrink from the task he had undertaken—a task to which he felt himself utterly inadequate, and which, circumscribed as his abilities were, he would not have undertaken if he had thought it necessary to inflict on himself an examination into the general condition of Irish policy, still less to have involved himself in recommending anything harsh or unkind towards that country. For many reasons, he felt with such a motion as that with which he should conclude, that he must request
 1204 1205 1206 "If the House" said the noble Lord, "be determined to confine the revenues of the Church to purposes strictly ecclesiastical, it is better for that determination to be declared; but if the house is not of that opinion, it is certainly of no use for us to be passing through the different stages of the Bills for the commutation of tithes. We ought not, in my opinion, to proceed with that Bill while this great question is unsettled—while it is yet unknown whether the Ministers and House of Commons agree as to the question, or are at variance upon it. I think, Sir, that this consideration
 1207 * mutatis mutandis, * 1208 1209 inclinatio temporum, 1210 Ironical Cheers from the Ministerial benches. 1211 1212 1213
 Sir J. Eardly Wilmot  said, that he had the greatest satisfaction in seconding the proposition of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, and he must say, that he was of opinion most sincerely that the object which the hon. Baronet had in view was one which would be most useful to the Government and the country at large, for its effect would be to rescind the resolutions which had been passed in the year 1835, which a were calculated to destroy the peace of the country, and which operated as a mill-stone round the neck, not only of the Government itself, but of Parliament. He had always been, and he should always be a zealous friend to the Protestant Church, and he would do every
 1214 1215
 Mr. Colquhoun  was fully impressed with the importance of the subject, and would contend that the attention of the House was bespoke by the fact of the appropriation clause having never been introduced into any of the measures which had hitherto been brought forward by the Government. He would ask, then, was it not worth while for the House to look back, and to rescind those resolutions which had been passed in favour of a plan which had never been adopted? It was remarkable that the noble Lord, who now stated it to be of no importance, had told the House in 1835 that no plan could be final and satisfactory which did not contain an appropriation clause. Would the House allow him to call their attention to the confirmation of this principle since that year? It was very well for hon. Gentlemen to say, it was of no importance, but he would call their attention to the real state of the Irish Church, and he would point out the object of the leading opponents of the Church of Ireland, who were relied on by the Government for the purpose of procuring a settlement of the question. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin, and the hon. and learned Member for Tipperary, who were the most important individuals of the representation of the popular party in Ireland, had told them that taking off 40 per cent. would not secure peace. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had said, that he supported the measure already brought forward, not as giving the Irish all they wanted, but as giving them part; and he had again said in 1834 that he demanded three-fifths only because he expected that he must get the remainder at some future time. He would point out a more important statement to show the real object of the two hon. and learned Members to whom he referred. In January, 1836, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin said, that the Government had the duties of seven centuries to perform, not the least part of which was to
 1217 1218 1219
 Sir John Oldcastle , afterwards Lord Cobham, brought in a bill to attain the object of this address. Four years afterwards this question was renewed more warmly at the Parliament held at Leicester, and would have been carried, only, it was stated, for the policy of Henry Chichely, then Archbishop of Canterbury. In the Long Parliament, in 1641, there was a debate in a "grand Committee" of the Commons, on the introduction of a bill for the abolition of deans and chapters. It was then declared, after an investigation of some of the statutes, grants, and foundations, of certain deans and chapters, that those deans and chapters were trustees, and that the profits of the lands in their possession had been employed, contrary to the trust reposed in them, and resolutions for their abolition were agreed to by the House. The lands taken by the bill were ordered to be applied to the advancement of learning and piety, reserving a maintenance to incumbents, who should appear "not peccant and delinquent to the House." Some time afterwards, it was resolved by the House, that those lands should be vested in feoffees, and that the bishops' lands should be vested in the Crown, reserving a competent allowance for the support of a sufficient number of ministers, and the reparation of churches, such allowance to be placed under the management of Commissioners. During the Commonwealth, in the year 1652, the question of tithes was debated, and it was referred to a Committee, to consider how a convenient and competent maintenance for the clergy might be settled in lieu of tithes, He
 1240 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. maximum l. l. l. 1241 Memoirs of Bishop Watson, "In January, 1799, (he writes,) I received from the Archbishop of Canterbury a paper which had been sent to him by Mr. Pitt, and was desired to deliver my opinion on the subject. The paper contained a plan for the sale of the tithe of the country, on the same principle that the land-tax had been offered for sale in the preceding Session of Parliament. It was proposed that the money
 1242 1243
 Lord Stanley  said: I should hardly have risen so early in the debate, if the hon. Gentleman, who has just sat down, had not personally called on me; if he had not expressed it as his thorough conviction, that, looking at the course I have pursued on former occasions, looking at the sentiments which I have expressed, and at the part which I have taken; looking at the desire I have always indicated, and which I still feel for a settlement of this perplexing question of the revenues of the Church of Ireland on a safe, reasonable, and satisfactory basis, he might confidently rely on my vote in favour of the resolutions now shoved by her Majesty's Government. Even if I were disposed to accede to those resolutions; even if I am—as I certainly am—disposed to consider them in the spirit of candour, of fairness, and moderation; even if I am disposed to discuss them with a desire to come to a settlement—to discuss them with a view not to force extreme opinions, or to press untenable points—the more I am disposed to come to such a discussion, the more I am convinced—and yet more and more from every
 1244 1245 "No, no," from Sir W. Somerville. 1246 No, no!" "Yes, yes! No, no! 1247 1248 1249 No, no. No, no. 1250 1251 1252
 Colonel Conolly  was of opinion that the hon, Baronet had selected the most appropriate occasion for bringing forward the present question, and that his motives were, in effect, to clear away the rubbish and the remains of opposition by which the consideration of the tithe question was encumbered, and to remove from the House the fetters which were on it, and which had been placed on it by another Parliament, and which it ought to take the earliest opportunity to remove. His experience convinced him of the necessity of such a step being taken, resting as it did on an acquaintance with the facts as they had occurred, and with the frightful
 1222 1223
 Lord John Russell  then addressed the Speaker to the following effect:—Sir, I rise to move, that you do now leave the chair. It was my original intention in doing so to refrain from saying a single
 1174 1175 1176 1177 1178 1179 1180 1181 l., l. 1182 l. l. l. l. l. 1183 l. 1184 1185 1186 No, no! Goulburn: 1187 1188 1189 "It was not his intention to enter into any argument with respect to the Irish Municipal Corporations Bill. In former discussions with respect to this bill he had stated his objection to it; not as to itself alone, but as connected with other Irish measures. He still retained the same objections. At the same time he must say, that it was his anxious wish to put an end to the discussion of all these bills, by bringing them to an amicable termination. He earnestly wished to put an end to the tithe question, which was introduced seven years ago. It was also his wish, that some arrangement should be made for a provision for the poor in Ireland. He was desirous to see the corporation question settled, when arrangements could be made for carrying out the other questions connected with it. He was most anxious that the Parliamentary discussion that now occurred on these questions from year to year should be brought to a close, and he could assure the noble Viscount, that if in the next Parliament they should meet in the same relative positions, he should be prepared to concur with him on all those subjects in any reasonable measure the noble Viscount might introduce for their final and satisfactory settlement." * * 1190 1191 1192 1193 inclinatio temporum 1194 1195 1196 1197 1198 1199 1200 1201 ex majore cautela, 1202 discordiâ maximâ res delabuntur. 1203
 Lord Leveson , in rising to express the opinions which he entertained on this most important subject, must hope that the House would extend its indulgence to him. He had listened attentively to the speeches which had been made by hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, and he thought, that no one could doubt, that the hon. Baronet by whom the amendment to the motion of the noble Lord had been made, had been actuated by conscientious motives in bringing forward this subject; but, at the same time, he did not think, that the reasons which had been given by the hon. Baronet for his taking that course were sufficient to convince the House of the expediency of affirming the motion which he had submitted to their attention. He was not sufficiently versed in Parliamentary customs or proceedings to be able to give an opinion which would carry much weight; but he could not do otherwise than express his dissatisfaction at a custom which ex-
 1220 1221
 Mr. French  had not heard any person, no matter how strongly he might be opposed to the principle or details of any of the various measures which for the settlement of tithe had from time to time been brought under their consideration, venture to deny, that the speedy adjustment of this question was necessary for the security of every description of property in Ireland, or suppose that unless it were settled, any reasonable hope could be entertained of permanent tranquillity being established there. Now, if parties in that House were really anxious that Ireland should not be kept as a field of contention, it would be necessary for them to enter on the discussion of this subject calmly and dispassionately, each prepared to yield somewhat of their own views, and to endeavour, uninfluenced by political considerations, unbiassed by party predilections, to arrive at a settlement at once satisfactory to the Catholic population of Ireland, and placing the property of the Church on a secure and permanent basis, both of which could be attained by, he considered, the adopting the resolutions proposed by the Ministers. If they did not enter on the question in such a spirit
 1236 1237 "Item, because divers damages and hindrances oftentimes have happened, and daily do happen, to the parishioners of divers places by the appropriation of benefices of the same places, it is agreed and assented to, that in every licence from henceforth to be made in the Chancery of the appropriation of any parish church, it shall be expressly contained and comprised that the diocesan of the place upon the appropriation of such churches shall ordain, according to the value of such churches a convenient sum of money to be paid and distributed yearly of the fruits and profits of the same churches, by those that shall have the said churches in proper use, and by their successors to the poor parishioners of the said churches in aid of their living and sustenance for ever, and also that the vicar be well and sufficiently endowed." 1238 1239 "That the clergy possessed a third part of the riches of the realm, and not doing the King any personal service, it was but just they should contribute out of their revenues towards the pressing necessities of the state; that it was evident the riches of the ecclesiastics made them negligent of their duty, and the lessening of their excessive incomes would be a double advantage to Church and State."
 Mr. Milnes  said, that the opinion expressed by the hon. Member who spoke last was an extraordinary one. He thought it a hard case that the hon. Baronet should bring forward his motion, and in his (Mr. Milnes's) opinion it was wrong to Suppose, because its result might have
 1226 1227 animus animus animi 1228 "They'll take suggestions as a cat laps milk." 1229
 Mr. Slaney  stated, that as he had never voted before on this question, not having had a seat in the last Parliament, he felt called upon to state the reasons that would influence his vote on the proposition of the hon. Baronet. He was the less induced to blink the question in consequence of the course he felt called upon to pursue on a late occasion, when it was with deep regret, that, by an imperative sense of duty, he was induced to vote against his Friends around him, he meant on the resolutions relative to any surplus that might be derived from an improved mode of letting church lands, and he then did so because he felt that whatever surplus might be derived from church revenues should be devoted, in the first instance, to the giving religious instruction in connection with the Church in those towns and villages in which there were not now adequate means provided for that purpose. He admitted, that they had now before them something like a similar question with regard to Ireland, but he asked whether it were necessary to put him in a situation in which it was imperative on him to say whether any surplus which might arise should be devoted in one way or an other? This was not owing to any proposition then made to the House by his noble Friend, as the representative of her Majesty's Government, but it was entirely owing to the motion of the hon. Baronet, who called upon them not to give an opinion as to whether or not there was any surplus, or as to how it should be applied, but to declare that the resolutions of a former Parliament, should be rescinded, and to which he for one had been no party, as he had not then a seat
 1224 animus 1225
 Mr. Lefroy  conceived, that the time had arrived at which they should come to a final adjustment of the question of tithes, but certainly not in the way according to which the noble Lord opposite proposed to settle it. In the first place, he thought it right to call the attention of the House to a single statement made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, in reference to the nature of the resolutions then before the House. When it was observed, that the surplus expected—for be it observed, there never had been a real surplus—was exceedingly small, the hon. and learned Gentleman said, though the surplus might be small, the principle involved in the measure was great, and he further asserted, the position that as Protestantism was found to diminish, so must the revenue allowed for its support be curtailed. Now, he desired to know whether or not that principle was contained in the resolutions; was that to be the basis of the settlement of the question of tithes? If so, they could never have a final settlement; there must be a new census every year, and a new estimate for the expenses of the Church, for the religious instruction of the surviving Protestants. He decidedly objected to this annual review of the surplus. The hon. Baronet opposite suggested that they should adopt the main resolution as the means of carrying out a substantial and  bonâ fide 1233 l. l. l. l. l. 1234 1235
 Sir Charles Lemon  said, that he had always joined with those hon. Members who had voted in favour of the appropriation clause, and that he should always consider, that he was bound to pursue the same line of conduct; but the question now was, whether they should have that as a law which had passed into oblivion, and whether the system which had before been advocated should be revived in order that the proposition for its adoption might be once more negatived. With all that had fallen from the hon. Baronet opposite, the mover of the resolution, he fully concurred; but he saw no reason why the hon. Baronet should not also agree with him that, as this measure met with his approbation, he should not turn round and look only to that which had passed. Why was such a step as this ushered in with a preparatory dinner? No hon. Member could look back to what had passed during the last three or four years without being persuaded that no individual Member could ever bring forward so practical a measure with the least hope of success. Evils had already resulted from the course adopted by hon. Members in making speculative declarations of their opinions, which would never have been made if they had been called upon to con-
 1216
 Sir W. Somerville , as one having a large stake and interest in the peace of Ireland, and deeply interested in the maintenance of the Protestant Church in that country, had always considered the appropriation principle as the only one on which the settlement of the tithe question could take place, and as the only one which could carry with it the feelings and confidence of the Irish. Hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to forget, that they had to conciliate the feelings of six millions of people with reference to a Church which belonged to only 600,000. What was the common state of things in Ireland? They saw, on the one hand, the Protestant Churches spread throughout the country, many of them fine edifices, and the ministers, if not supported in luxury, at
 1230 1231 bonâ fide 1232
 Viscount Morpeth : I know how great must be my disadvantage when I present myself to follow the noble Lord who has just sat down—
 "Infelix puer, atque impar congressus Achilli;" 1253 1254 Cheers from the Opposition. 1255 1256 "There seems, then, no alternative but that the State should lend its aid, and having purchased the rights of the clergy, become itself the proprietor and collector of the perpetual assessment substituted for tithe. If this be admitted, the actual amount of the tithe now collected does not effect the progress of the argument, and, without any attempt at accuracy, it may be taken for granted that the gross composition, if it extended over the whole of Ireland, would be about 600,000 l l. l. l. l. l. "To purchase 100 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1257 1258 1259 l. l l. 1260 1261
 Mr. Young  said, that no man could be more anxious than he was, to see the House arrive at a final and satisfactory settlement of that much-agitated question. But the resolution of 1835 fettered their movements. While it remained, there was no security for the Church. An instal-
 1276 l. 1277 1278 1279
 Mr. O'Connell  spoke to the following effect:—I can safely promise the House that if they extend me their patience I will not trespass long upon their attention. I rise after the right hon. and learned Gentleman, but not by reason of anything he has said— post hunc, sed non propter cum. 1314 Laughter, "Oh! Oh! "Hear, hear "Shouts. Uproar which drowned the hon. and learned Gentleman's voice, till the Speaker succeeded in restoring partial order. 1315 continued uproar, Continued uproar which prevented the hon. and learned Member from being more than partially heard. Order. Cheers, question. 1316 1317 1318 1319 "The cat may mew, the dog will have his day." 1320 Question! Oh oh. 1321 1322 1323 1324 Wilmot 1325
 Mr. Lascelles  was one of those, who at the conclusion of the last Session of Parliament, had looked forward with satisfaction to the prospect of some amicable arrangement of this question. He should indeed be sorry that any vote which he was about to give in this preliminary stage, should be supposed to preclude the most full and dispassionate consideration of the entire subject. He had a great disinclination that party battles should be fought on such questions, and it was for this reason, that he was the more ready to support the amendment, and so far to remove an obstacle to the amicable settlement of this question. No one could deny the difficulties that surrounded this question. In voting for the amendment, he did not see on what grounds it could be said, that he was thereby voting for a re-enactment of the penal code, or for any harsh measures towards Ireland. The question was, whether or no the appropriation principle should be maintained. To that principle he was decidedly opposed, and if he had been in the last Parliament, he should have voted against it. He thought it at the time unadvisable and objectionable, and he was of the same opinion still. It was his intention now to vote for the rescinding of that resolution, and he would give that vote in the hope of doing away with the difficulties that stood in the way of an amicable arrangement of the question, Whether or
 1273
 Lord Teignmouth  was understood to say, that so far from considering the appropriation clause as dormant, it seemed to be the burthen of all the speeches which were made on the other side. The principle seemed, as it were, at the heart's core of hon. Members. The noble Lord had shown, that he had the principle of that clause at heart, and it had been avowed in a most candid and manly manner by the last Speaker, who stated, that not only would he have the appropriation clause, but that he would go the length of transferring the whole revenues of the Irish Church to the majority, and that was to the Roman Catholics of Ireland. The conclusion, then, to which he must come was this—that the appropriation clause was the vivified principle for which hon. Gentlemen opposite were contending. The best way to discuss any subject, was to come at once to the point; and certainly the hon. Member who last addressed the House, had not been deficient in manliness and candour in coming to the point in which he was anxious that the House should concur. He had openly avowed his wish, that there should be a Catholic Church establishment in that country; he had represented that, in the opinion of the people, the Protestant Church was considered as a curse. He, on the part of the Protestants, must beg to deny, and in that opinion he was sure that no small minority of the Roman Catholics would concur. [Mr.  O'Connell: 1295 "——Bella, horrida bella, "Et Tybrim multo spumantem sanguine cerno. "Non Simoïs tibi, nec Xanthus, nee Dorica "castra "Defuerint." 1296
 Mr. Litton  said, on the Order of the Day being read for resuming the adjourned debate, on the motion for the Speaker to leave the chair to go into a Committee on the Tithes (Ireland) Act, it was a great satisfaction to him to know that his opinion coincided with the great mass of the Protestant population of Ireland, and that there were very few indeed of the members of the Established Church who did not agree in thinking, that great injury and mischief to that Establishment, and vast injustice to individuals would result from these resolutions. With respect, moreover, to the clergy themselves (and he thought that they ought to be considered in a matter like this), as far as he had been able to inquire, there was not one dissentient voice from the opposition they were disposed to give to the details and principles of this measure. Let it not be said, that a boon was conferred by it on the clergy, but let it be distinctly understood, that they considered it an infraction of private rights, and that any bill founded on those resolutions would strike at the root of all private property and of the Established Church in Ireland. It was important that
 1264 1265 l. l. l. l. 1266 1267 l. l. 1268 1269 1270 1271 1272
 Mr. Shaw  said, that from the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and the hon. Member who had preceded him a short time before on the same side (Mr. Ward), it would appear that, in their opinion, no measure would be satisfactory for settling the tithe question in Ireland without possessing the appropriation clause. There was one thing in which both sides would most cordially agree—namely, in an inclination to bring that long-agitated and vexatious subject, to a final and satisfactory adjustment if possible. The only subject of difference between both sides of the House was the manner in which that final adjustment
 1304 1305 1306 "——Such a charm in melancholy, They would not if they could be gay." l. l. 1307 l. l. 1308 bonâ fide 1309 1310 pari passu 1311 1312 infelix puer. 1313 Hear, hear!
 Mr. Benett  felt himself placed in a peculiar position on this occasion, as at the time when the appropriation clause was brought forward he had found himself compelled to vote against those persons with whom he had acted politically with the greatest zeal for a long series of years. He had done so from a sense of duty to his country, because he felt, that it would be unjust to appropriate any part of the revenues of the Church to other than ecclesiastical purposes. He confessed, that he had entered on this subject not only with great pain, but with great assiduity, and he had taken the trouble to make himself master of what had passed on Irish subjects for some years past, in order to ascertain what was the proper course for him to pursue, and he believed, that hon. Gentlemen would give him credit for fairness and independence of opinion. Though he still retained, then, the opinions which he formerly held, and though he would not, as far as his opposition could avail, on any account allow an appropriation of what had hitherto been appropriated to the Church for any other than ecclesiastical purposes, yet he could not help thinking that it was his duty to oppose the motion of the hon. Baronet. It was one thing to oppose a resolution, and another to rescind it. The resolution which it was now attempted to rescind, was proposed, he really believed, for party purposes. But he asked himself what was the object of the present Amendment? He had always been opposed to party feeling, and he had never at any time joined any combination for party purposes. He thought that his hon. Friend the Member for North Devon had been induced to make this motion, not from a desire to rescind the obnoxious
 1280 1281
 Mr. Bellew  said, I am rejoiced at the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for North Devonshire, because it states, in clear terms, the object of the party with which he acts, and places before the public, with a distinctness that admits of no mistake, the line of uncompromising policy which it would be their intention to follow in the government of Ireland, should events again place the right hon. Member for Tamworth at the head of affairs. For does any one doubt, that the views of the Government with regard to the Church question must mainly influence their conduct in all the details of administration in Ireland? It is the cardinal point on which all their policy turns, and therefore it is that the measure at present brought forward by the noble Lord, defective as it may be in some respects, and falling far short of what the Irish people might reasonably expect, would yet, I am convinced, meet with their cordial support, not only for the benefits it would confer, but still more for the valuable assurance it would convey of the intention of the Government to defer to the opinion and conciliate the good-will of the great body of the people of that country. And herein appears to me the great difference between Gentlemen opposite and her Majesty's Government. The Tories say, the Catholics would abuse the powers that would be conferred on them by the Corporation Bill, that they would not rest satisfied with the arrangement of Church property that would take place under the present bill, in the same way as they predicted all sorts of calamities from the new franchises created by the Reform Bill. They have no idea of placing trust in the power of the social
 1297 1298 1299 1300 "Resolved—That we will never cease our constitutional agitation until tithes are utterly extinguished in name and in reality. That latterly, and more especially at the present moment, our peace of mind is banished, and our industry interrupted; our goods are seized, and in many instances our persons incarcerated; that, in short, we are suffering the most terrible persecution that the hatred of bad men acting under the authority of intolerant laws can devise; and that it is our deliberate opinion, that if the country be not speedily relieved from this species of martyrdom, the Irish people will be driven to the extreme alternative of denying themselves the use of all taxed articles." 1301 1302 1303
 Mr. Townley  was understood to say, that it was apparent that in this discussion there was something savouring strongly of party feeling—that the amendment had been moved for the purpose of founding an attack, and affixing a stigma upon the present Government, and displacing them from the situation which they now held. On the question of the appropriation clause, he felt himself bound to separate himself from those with whose views it was his happiness generally to concur, and to vote against that proposition; but, on the present occasion, as the resolutions of the noble Lord (the Secretary for the Home Department) did not embrace the principle of appropriation, he should vote for going into their consideration. That being the case, he felt satisfied, that he should not act inconsistently with his former vote in joining, on this occasion, those in whom he placed confidence. Looking also to the prospect of no greater peace for Ireland than that which had been secured by those in whose hands the Government of that country was now placed, he, in the exercise of the discretion vested in him, felt that by voting in favour of the resolutions of the noble Lord, he should best discharge his duty to his constituents, and to the country at large.
 Mr. Redington  was strongly opposed to the Amendment proposed by the hon. Baronet. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Litton) had boasted of speaking the sentiments of 600,000 Protestants of Ireland; he not only spoke, but entertertained the opinions and sentiments of 6,000,000 of the people of Ireland. Great stress had been laid upon the petition from the clergy of Armagh against the Ministerial plan for settling the tithe question, and it had been declared that the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland were unanimous in their opposition to that measure. But, so far from this being the fact, he had seen a letter written by the Dean of Cloyne, in which he expressly stated not only that he was himself strongly against the sentiments set forth in the petition from the clergy of Armagh, but that many of the clergy in his diocese were equally opposed to that petition, and that it was the intention of those individuals to get up and present a counter petition to the House upon the question. What, indeed, was the language held by those ministers of the Gospel who displayed such hostility to the measure proposed by her Majesty's Government? They in effect declared this:—fifty per cent. we are now able to obtain; to another fifty we are entitled, and we would rather have the fifty per cent. we now get with strife, than the seventy per cent. offered to us with peace." As an Irish land lord, he could not but express his very great disappointment at the course which this debate had taken. He had fondly entertained the hope that a better state of things was coming on, and that the peace and tranquillity of Ireland, without which it never could be prosperous, would have been the object of the Legislature, without any reference whatever to the spirit of party. Unfortunately, however, for that
 1274 ci-devant ci-devant ci-devant 1275
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the disadvantage of rising to address the House at so late an hour on the second night of an adjourned debate was not diminished by the circumstance of his having to reply to the right hon. Baronet opposite, whom all admitted to be the leader in point of ability and elocution, as he was the leader in station, of the great party of the Opposition. He felt, however, that as the question upon which the House had to decide, when disencumbered of the extraneous circumstances pressed into the service—by no speaker with more profusion than the right hon. Baronet himself—was a very simple one, it would not be necessary for him to occupy their attention for any length of time; and that, confining himself to the real merits of the particular point at issue, a plain, easy, and simple duty awaited him. No one could more regret than he did that either angry feeling, or party bias should have been introduced into the present debate. But who was responsible for its introduction? What had led to it? Why, he took it, on the showing of the right hon. Baronet himself, for he could require no stronger authority than that which the right hon. Baronet's words afforded. The right hon. Baronet admitted that the proposition which had been made was one in which, he well knew, her Majesty's Government could not be expected to acquiesce. Why, then, had it been introduced at the present moment? If the resolutions on the table had involved the question of appropriation, he should not have quarrelled with the right hon. Baronet for saying to the House, "Before you discuss those resolutions, I will have you discuss the resolutions of appropriation which they include." But how stood the case? Did the resolutions of his noble Friend contain the principle of appropriation? The right hon. Baronet seemed to say he was uncertain as to whether they did or not; but he defied any man, who came to the discussion of the subject with the smallest practical knowledge, to entertain a doubt on the point. If there had been doubt on the subject, why did not the hon. Baronet, the
 1346 1347 1348 1349 1350 1351 1352 1353
 Mr. Ward  thought, that there were two distinct questions at present before the House, upon which it was competent to any man to arrive at different conclusions. The first had reference to a series of reso-
 1284 1285 1286 fons et origo E. Wilmot "That the Protestant episcopal Establishment in Ireland exceeds the spiritual wants of the Protestant population; and that it being the right of the State to regulate the distribution of Church property in such manner as Parliament may determine, it is the opinion of this House, that the temporal possessions of the Church of Ireland, as now established by law, ought to be reduced." 1287 "Dear Sir,—I have this moment received yours, and in answer beg to say, that I did vote in favour of Mr. Ward's motion; but so far from agreeing with you, that the motion was for the spoliation of the Irish Church, I most conscientiously think, that, as the Commission of Inquiry had been issued, and as a promise had been given by the Ministry, that the surplus (if any) of the Irish revenues should be employed in 'the moral and religious education of the Irish,' such application has given tenfold security to the Church itself." "Had I thought that the anomalous state of the Irish Church, so connected with the unsettled state of Ireland, did not make revision unavoidable, and had I thought such revision would tend one atom to weaken the Establishment in Ireland, I never would have voted in favour of such a motion. But believing that I strengthen a building, when too big for its foundations, by removing the useless incumbrances which overhang the sound and useful part of it, and that by replacing decayed timbers with sound ones I render the whole permanently secure, I confess I am surprised, that you should say, that I voted for the spoliation of the Irish Church, or acted contrary to the opinions previously expressed. I will go as far as any man living, and perhaps further than many who profess most to secure and support the Established Church, and will be always at my post to defend her rights, privileges, and just demands; but I am not blind to her abuses, and will assist in wiping off with a steady hand the rust which has defiled her altars and dimmed her lustre, and which, if permitted to corode deeper into her sanctuary, will not only deform her external beauty, but will destroy her inward utility and strength." "If such were his (Sir E. Wilmot's) opinions, however we may differ with him and condemn and regret the fact, he did right in voting with Mr. Ward; if such were not the opinions by which he was actuated, however 'double-faced' he might conceive the conduct of Government to be, he could not be justified in supporting a motion subversive of the rights of Church property." 1288 1289 1290 Cries of "oh, oh! 1291 "The protection of life, liberty, and property (the object of all civil government), is not inseparably or exclusively connected with any particular form of Church government. The blessings of civil society depend upon the proper execution of good laws, and upon the good morals of the people; but no one will attempt to prove, that the laws and morals of the people may not be as good in Germany, Switzerland, or Scotland, under a presbyterian, as in England or France, under an episcopal, form of Church government." "Suppose, however, a majority of dissenters in the House of Commons. What then? Why then the House of Commons may propose to the House of Lords a bill for changing the constitution of the Church of England into the constitution of the Church of Scotland. Be it so. What then? Suppose the King and the House of Lords to agree to such a change. What then? Why then the present form of the Church of England would be changed into another form! And this is the catastrophe of so many tragical forebodings? The change would hardly be to be regretted, if brought about by a simultaneous change in the sentiments of the nation at large," 1292 "For nature is true, and not a lie. No lie you can speak, or act, but it will come at last to nature's hank for payment. Pity only often that it has had so long a circulation. Lies, and the burden of evil they bring, are passed on, shifted from back to back, and from rank to rank, and so land ultimately on the lowest rank, who with spade and mattock, with sore heart, and empty wallet, daily come in contact with reality, and can pass the lie no further." 1293 1294
 Sir R. Peel  said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman has exceeded the limits which he prescribed for himself at the commencement of his speech, I am the last man that should be disposed to regret the superfluity, because if I wanted a speech to justify the course of my hon Friend—if I wanted a speech to show, that it is desirable we should know the principle on which her Majesty's Government mean to proceed—it would be the speech which we have heard from the hon. and learned Gentleman. The hon. and learned Gentleman says, that we propose to rescind a certain resolution which he read. The effect of that resolution was to appropriate a certain surplus of the Irish Church property to the education of all classes of her Majesty's subjects, without reference to their religious denomination. The hon. and learned Gentleman says, that because we propose to rescind that resolution, we must intend to govern Ireland through the medium of hardships and coercion. Then I ask the hon. and learned Gentleman, what does he think of those who practically abandon the resolution? If it be so great a crime to explain to the people of Ireland and to the people of England what are your real intentions—if it be so great a crime to ask you to efface from the records of Parliament the principle which would apply a surplus of Church property to education not connected with the Protestant faith—let me ask the hon. and learned Gentleman
 1326 1327 l. 1328 1329 1330 "The hon. Baronet now called on the House to sever the two propositions, either for no purpose at all, or for the purpose of passing that portion of the bill relating to the concession of the million and the settlement of the tithe question, and of throwing out the other portion of the measure relating to appropriation. If the right hon. Gentleman wished the house to retrace its steps, would it not, then, have been much more decent if the right hon. Gentleman had come down and asked them to rescind the resolution they had sanctioned in so many forms." "The more straightforward course, added the right hon. Gentleman, would have been for the House to have been called on to rescind its former resolution; and, if any hon. Gentleman thinks he can vote for this resolution without rescinding the former vote, let him recollect the cheers with which the announcement was received; that it was intended to negative one part of this bill and to carry the other part." "I am prepared to argue the case when we go into the Committee after having negatived this resolution, but I will not allow what was a Parliamentary minority on a former occasion to convert itself into a majority by a little sleight of hand and legerdemain dexterity, such as moving a resolution which is apparently one thing, though most unquestionably it means another." * * 1331 1332 1333 * * 1334 Question, question! "That this House do resolve itself into a Committee, in order to consider the present state of the Church Establishment in Ireland, with a view to apply any surplus of its revenues, not required for the spiritual care of its
 1335 * * 1336 "Of all the ills that harass the distressed
"Sure, the most bitter is a scornful jest." 1337 1338 1339 1340 l. l. 1341 1342 1343 l. l. l. l. 1344 laughter sine quà non 1345
 Viscount Sandon  did not rise for the purpose, in any degree, of impugning the motives of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and he fully and entirely believed, that the opinion at which he had arrived, was as honest and as conscientious as it was possible for any man to exercise. He rose for the purpose of vindicating himself and his hon. Friend, the Member for North Devon, who sat beside him, from the charge of bringing forward this motion merely as a trial of party strength, involving no practical consequences. If he really felt that the resolution which it was now sought to rescind, was as obsolete and effete as the hon. Gentleman opposite considered it, or as effete as the Act of Richard 2nd., which was quoted by another hon. Gentleman last night, he should certainly never have thought fit to interpose as an obstacle to the noble Lord's resolutions the motion of his hon. Friend. "But," continued the noble Lord, "this question obsolete? Obsolete! why, the resolutions are only three years old altogether. These were the constant boast of the Gentlemen who brought them forward, and this is the first year in which the principle which they embody is not avowed. It is said, that the proceeding did not take place in the same Parliament; the objection is purely technical; the party which brought forward the appropriation clause is the same, and there is the same Ministry, and the motion to rescind it is opposed by Gentlemen who have re-asserted their abomination almost of the Church of Ireland as an institution. Is it surprising, then, that we should view with jealousy the continuance of these resolutions on the journals? Obsolete, Sir! Idle! Why, we find the hon. Gentleman opposite looking into the resolutions now proposed by the noble Lord, and exerting
 1282 1283
 Mr. Wallace  opposed the motion. The jurisdiction at present worked well, and he was against raising it. He objected also to the division of counties into districts, because the judges might then delegate their power to clerks of the courts and others. It was a prevalent and vicious practice for clerks of the courts to be the legal advisers of the parties. The hon. Mover must know the incompetence of the Scotch justices of the peace to do the duty which he proposed to impose upon them. He would move, as au amend-
 1359
 Mr. Wallace  Moved, on the third clause, that it be taken into consideration that day six months.
 The Lord Advocate  moved an amendment on the second clause, the effect of which was to leave the amount of the jurisdiction as it at present stood at 5 l l s d
 Mr. Chalmers  moved, that it be omitted, because he thought it gave too great a power to the magistrates presiding in the small courts.
 Sir W. Rae  moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a committee on the Small Debts (Scotland) Bill.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that although the hon. Gentleman who had resumed his seat, had not entered fully into the subject of Exchequer-bills, he (Mr. Williams) would show, that a large sum of money might have been, and ought to have been saved by a reduction in the rate of interest which they bore. When the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a few nights since, at a very late hour, moved a vote of 24,000,000 l. l. s. d. 1398 d. d. l., l. l. f. d. d., d. 1399 d s. 1400 d. s. 1401 d. d.
 Mr. M. Attwood  was understood to admit, that it was right to raise the interest of Exchequer-bills, but that ought not at any time to be done from any sudden fluctuation in the money market. The rate of the interest of Exchequer-bills ought to be regulated by the general rate of interest in the money market, but Government ought not to alter the rate of interest until the money market was in a settled state. He contended, that the calculations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the probable amount of the revenues of the years 1835, 1836, and 1837, were incorrect; but the right hon. Gentleman now balanced the surplus of one year against the deficiency of the other, and in that way he claimed credit to himself as being a true prophet as to the income of all those years. The right hon. Gentleman now found, that he had a deficient revenue, but would he put on a new tax to supply the deficiency. If the right hon. Gentleman did attempt to impose a new tax, he could tell him that his tenure of office would be very short. In what way, then, could his deficiency be supplied? The Government could not reduce any of the departments of public expenditure. These they had brought too low already for the service which the country required. What, then, must they do? They must borrow; and if they borrowed in the only way that was fairly open to them—that was from the Bank—they must depreciate the currency, for in proportion as they borrowed must they depreciate the currency in which they borrowed.
 Mr. Colquhoun  moved as an amendment, that instead of the "seven other persons" proposed, nine persons be nominated severally to the general board from the local boards of nine of the principal counties of Scotland, in which circuit courts are held. By this infusion, much local knowledge would be added to the general board, which it could not possess under the form proposed by this clause.
 Captain Gordon  objected to the clause.
 Mr. F. Maule  opposed the amendment, on the ground, that the seven individuals to be nominated by her Majesty's Government, chiefly noble Lords of the other House of Parliament, were unexceptionable, and could not be supposed to be actuated by any prejudice whatever in their capacity of directors.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the province of Lower Canada had been placed under military law by Lord Gosford, and, that Sir J. Colborne, on assuming the government, had continued it. He had no doubt, however, that it had since been removed, although no distinct intelligence had been received respecting it.
 Lord J. Russell  had no objection to their being produced.
 Lord J. Russell  could not consent to it.
 Lord J. Russell  would merely state the course he meant to pursue without making any comment, reserving to himself the power of making afterwards any explanation that might be necessary. The course he meant to adopt was this—not to bring forward the committee on Irish tithes on Monday, but to proceed to the consideration of the Municipal Corporations of Ireland Bill. In stating, that he did not mean to take the Irish tithes on Monday, he had no intention to abandon the proposition of going into committee on this question, but only to postpone it until the Monday following, and if the Committee on the municipal corporations had not finished by that day, he proposed to go into the committee on the Irish tithes, and to propose only one resolution, for changing the tithe composition now paid, into a rent-charge, payable by the first owners of the inheritance. If that resolution were agreed to, he should move, that it be reprinted, and that that alone would form the basis of a measure which he proposed to bring forward, except as to the arrears of the 1,000,000 l.,
 Lord J. Russell  said, that of course a request of this kind, as to a delay of three or four days for consideration, was one which he should be most unwilling to refuse. He would not, therefore, propose to go into committee on Monday, but postpone it until Friday, reversing, therefore, the order by not going into the Irish Tithes on Monday, and by bringing forward the Municipal Corporations first. The right hon. Gentleman said he did not clearly understand what he (Lord J. Russell) had stated. What he had stated was this—that after the House had gone through committee on Irish Municipal Corporations, that then he purposed not to defer or postpone any consideration as to Tithes, but to propose a measure solely consisting in this—that the tithe composition at present existing should be changed into a rent charge. He did not yet know whether the particular amount would be stated in the resolution.
 Lord J. Russell  did not know, that he could give precise answers to these questions. As to the state of Upper and Lower Canada, he could say, that there had been certain acts passed by the Legislature of Upper Canada prescribing certain modes of trial, according to which persons charged with treason were to be tried, but there had not been received at the Colonial-office copies of those acts. There had, however, been received despatches from Sir George Arthur, stating, that two persons had been tried for high treason before the ordinary tribunals, but he had received no intimation of their having been executed. As to the other cases, he believed, they rested only on rumour. The instructions, that had been issued to Sir George Arthur were conformable to what he had stated in the House, and he had no objection to produce them.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that during his experience in Parliament he never saw a Chancellor of the Exchequer in so woful a plight. After they had heard so much of former Administrations—after they had been told of the retrenchment and reform which the present Ministry intended to introduce—and the good it was to produce—after all this the Chancellor of the Exchequer declared that there was a deficiency of two millions. Now, bad as that was, it was better than he expected. If all their debts had been paid—all the expenses of Commissioners and the other
 1412
 Mr. Maclean  had understood the question of the hon. Member for Kilkenny to apply generally to the instructions with reference to Canada; and the question which he wished now to put was, whether as Lord Durham had sailed, there would be any objection to lay on the table a copy of the instructions which he had received?
 Mr. Maclean  said, he did not clearly understand the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), whether he objected to laying on the table a copy of the instructions to Sir George Arthur.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that it was not his intention to make many observations on this subject, which was so important to the interests of the country; but, never-
 1402 1403 l. l., 1404 1405 1406 s. 1407 l. l. 1408 1409
 Mr. A. Yates  observed, that it was the vicious system of paper money in America which had caused much of the distress and difficulty in which both countries had been involved.
 Mr. Hume  proceeded to state, that be could not take the favourable view which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had done as to the state of the finances of the country. The view which he took of the receipt and expenditure of the country was very different. According to the statement he then held in his hand, * l., l. l. l., l. l., l., l. l. l. l., 
 
 An Account of the Income and Expenditure of the United Kingdom for the Years ending 5th January, 1838, 1837, and 1838. 
 Income. Expenditure. Surplus. 
 1836 £50,408,579 £48,787,639 £1,620,940 
 1837 52,949,398 50,819,306 2,130,092 
 Deficiency. 
 1838 50,663,353 51,319,114 655,760 
 
 Expenditure. 
 Excess of 1836 over 1835 £2,031,667 
 Ditto of 1837 over 1835 2,531,475 1386
 Mr. Hume : at all events it appeared that the extra expense already incurred on account of Canada was more than a million sterling. If he (Mr. Hume) could believe that that would be the outside of the expense the right hon. Gentleman might be justified; but every account which he received from Canada stated, that the expenditure was most lavishly conducted, and that the amount could not yet be ascertained. The right hon. Gentleman would, therefore, be fortunate if he could clear himself at the expense only of an extra million. But what a picture was this to present to the country at this time! Owing to the misgovernment of the Colonial-office, and to not doing justice to the people of Canada, England had at once an addition to her debt to the extent of 1,000,000 l., l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. 1387 l. * l., l. l., l., l., l. l., l. 
 
 * 
 For the Year 1836. 1837. 1838. 
 Civil List 510,000 510,000 444,066 
 Pensions for Services 524,491 509,632 578,966 
 Salaries and Allowances 167,330 171,560 194,042 
 Diplomatic Salaries, &c. 176,015 108,301 188,141 
 Courts of Justice 430,495 420,996 674,452 
 Miscellaneous 274,486 1,056,103 * 331,789 
 Totals £ 2,082,817 2,866,935 2,411,457 
 
 * 
 Expenses of Bank of England on the loan of £15,000,000 £7,500 
 Interest on Slave Compensations awarded 677,325 
 £685,325 1388 l. l., l. * l., l. l. l., l. 
 
 * ending 
 1836. 1837. 1838. 
 Army 6,406,143 6,473,183 6,521,716 
 Navy 4,099,430 4,205,726 4,750,659 
 Ordnance 1,151,914 1,434,056 1,444,523 
 Miscellaneous Services 2,144,345 2,279,311 2,513,030 
 Totals £ 13,801,832 14,392,278 15,229,927 
 Excess of the year 1836 over 1835 £1,428,095 
 Excess of the year 1837 over 1838 837,649 1389 * l., l. l., l. l., l., l., l., l. l. 
 
 * See Parliamentary Paper, No. 352, of 
 Aggregate Amount of increased Interest paid on Exchequer Bills £294,199 
 Ditto payable to 5th Jan., 1838 129,724 
 Ditto on Deficiency Bills, from raising the Interest 19,309 
 Half Year's Interest on £24,507,450 Exchequer Bills of the ½ d. 92,924 
 £536,166 
 Discount on the Loan of £15,000,000 payable to Bank 28,966 
 Total £765,130 1390 l. * l., l., l. l. d. l., l. 
 
 * 
 Years ending 5th Jan. IMPORTS. EXPORTS 
 Official Value. Official Value. Declared Value. 
 1836 £48,911,543 £91,174,456 £47,372,270 
 1837 57,230,968 97,621,549 53,368,572 
 1838 54,737,301 85,781,669 42,214,938 
 
 Decrease in 1838 compared with 1837. 
 £2,493,667 £11,839,880 £11,153,634 1391 * l., l. l. l., l. l., l. l. 
 
 Official value of some principal articles of Export from Great Britain, in the years  ending 
 ARTICLES. 1836. 1837. 1838. 
 Cotton Manufactures £ 44,849,038 50,646,912 41,900,110 
 Hardware and Cutlery 1,152,811 1,192,672 773,323 
 Iron and Steel 2,955,967 2,842,792 1,744,069 
 Linen Manufactures 4,285,385 4,469,530 3,213,345 
 Woollen do 7,399,657 7,535,064 4,680,247 
 Silk do 792,087 767,986 432,123 
 † See Table in following column. 1392 l. l., l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. 
 
 Comparison of the Amounts of Funded and Unfunded Debt, and of the Annual Charge for Interest and Management of the same for the years ending on the 5th January, 1835, and on 5th January, 1838. 
 FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM. Funded Debt Unredeemed. Charge Interest. Annuities and Management. Total Charge, Interest, and Management. Exchequer Bills out on 5th January 
 Total Debt on 5th January, 1835. Great Britain and Ireland. £711,740,265 £22,462,749 £4,185,084 £26,647,833 £28,446,700( b 
 31,935,035 1,128,724 6,897 1,135,621 
 £743,675,300 £23,591,473 £4,191,981 £27,783,454 
 Total Debt on 5th January, 1838. Great Britain and Ireland. £728,857,903 £22,988,322 £4,852,676 £27,840,998 £24,507,450 
 33,417,286 1,176,919 6,823 1,183,742 
 ( a £24,165,241 £4,859,499 £28,524,740 
 Increase £18,599,889 £573,768 £667,518 £741,285 Less £3,939,350 
 ( a 
 ( b 1393 l., l. l. l, l. l. l., l., l. l. l., * 
 
 * 
 Years. Linen Manufactures. Tape Threads. Linen Yarn. 
 Yards. £ £ Yards. £ 
 1835 77,977,089 2,893,139 99,004 2,611,215 216,635 
 1836 82,088,760 3,238,031 88,294 4,574,504 318,772 
 1837 58,426,333 2,033,425 64,020 8,373,100 479,307 1394 1395 l. 1396 l., l. l. 1397 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, what he wished to know was, whether military or civil law was the law enforced?
 Mr. Hume  said, that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman had not been by any means satisfactory to him, nor would it be, he was quite confident, to the public; but, before he addressed the Committee, he begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question, because, on the answer which he (Mr. Hume) should receive, would depend the nature and extent of the observations he should feel it his duty to make. It would be recollected that when the Committee to inquire into joint-stock banks was appointed, the Chancellor of the Exchequer engaged that an early opportunity would be afforded for entering into a discussion, how far the proceedings of the Bank of England, or the conduct of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had tended to produce the mischief that had recently been produced in the commercial affairs of this country. He was anxious to have an opportunity of showing in what manner the public revenues had suffered, and that millions of individuals had also suffered distress for want of employment, in consequence of the recent severe shock given to public credit; and he hoped to prove clearly that that shock had arisen from mismanagement on the part of those who had the control of the monetary system of the country. If, therefore, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would now fix a day for entering upon the discussion of that question, he would, on the present occasion, confine himself to the subject of the revenue and expenditure of the country.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would take the first notice-day; and would give notice now ["You cannot!"]. At all events, he begged the right hon. Gentleman to understand that it was not an inquiry into the affairs of
 1385
 Mr. Hume  asked whether or not the men had been tried by an  ex post facto
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble Lord a question which he considered one of very great importance. He wished to know the condition of Upper and Lower Canada at this time, and whether it was civil law or military law, that was enforced there. He understood, that persons had been tried for high treason by the ordinary courts of justice in Montreal and in Upper Canada, and yet it was stated, that military law was still existing there. He must also ask, and he did so regretting the necessity of it, whether there
 1363 The Times,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  having searched the order-book, proposed that the motion of the hon. Member on this subject should be fixed for Thursday, the 31st of May.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was most anxious to discuss the whole question connected with the present condition of the law affecting the Bank of England, and the practice of the Bank under that law: but he at this moment laboured under a great difficulty, in consequence of the unavoidable absence of his excellent Friend, the Secretary for the Treasury, (Mr. F. Baring) the cause of whose absence he was sure every one must deplore. He would repeat that he was anxious that the discussion should take place, and he believed, that those Gentlemen who were connected with the Bank of England were perfectly ready to meet that discussion. (The right hon. Gentleman then turned to consult with Lord John Russell as to what day could be fixed).
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  must, he said, in the execution of his duty, crave the attention of the Committee to the statement he was about to make, promising to be as brief as circumstances would permit—as clear as the subject and his intellect would enable him to be—and undoubtedly as sincere as he ought to be in dealing with a matter of so much importance. There was no Gentleman whom he had the honour of addressing who must not be aware, from the papers laid before the House, what were the prospects of the present year, and what had been the state of the public revenue and expenditure in the last year. There was nothing in that state to create any degree of permanent apprehension, yet, at the same time, there was undoubtedly much which must be for the time a matter of regret. The past year had been, as hon. Gentlemen knew, a year of increased expenditure and diminished receipt, and the result was that which appeared on the balance-sheet—viz., a considerable deficiency at the present moment in the public revenue as compared to the expenditure. It was curious, that the studious man, thinking on a subject of this kind in his closet, sometimes anticipated, by means of his theoretical calculations, that result which was afterwards made manifest by the production of the public accounts. In a book lately published, written by a gentleman of the highest possible authority, Mr. Tooke, there appeared so perfect and accurate a description not only of the existing state of the revenue and of the expenditure of the country, but also of the causes which had led to that state, that with the permission of the Committee he would read the passage. The right hon. Gentleman read the following passage from Mr. Tooke's book on prices, vol. ii., page 278:—
 "The revenue has experienced a falling-off in the past year, as compared with the preceding, But, independently of the operations of the tea duties, there is reason to believe, that the revenue of the preceding year was an inflated one. It is quite clear, that a period of speculation must be attended with an increase of revenue; for, not to mention the operation of over-trading, it may be observed, that when prices have been rising for some time, the tendency to anticipations of a further advance, in other words to speculation, extends itself to retail dealers, who, under such circumstances, are induced to enlarge their stock. This causes entries for consumption,
 1367 1368 1369 l.; l.; l. l., 1370 l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 1371 l., l. l., l. l. d. l. 1372 l. s. l. l. l. l. l. 1373 Hume: l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l., l. 1374 l., l., l., l., l., l. l. l., l. l., l., l., l., l., l., l. l. l. 1375 l., l. l., l. l. l, l. 1376 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 1377 l. l., l., l., l., l. "For the present year, then, the question which arises out of the statements which I have submitted to the committee—the question which they will have principally to consider—is, whether the present deficiency, which I have stated, in round numbers, to be 3,000,000 l. 1378 s. ., l. l. l.. * Mr. Canning had before him a deficiency of 3,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. * 1379 l. l., l. l. l., l., l., l. l. l. 1380 l. l. l. 1381 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1382 1383 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the additional sum required would not be quite 500,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was
 1413 l., l. Williams: l., l. l. l. 1414 l., l. l. l. l. l. et propter vitam vivendi perdere causas. 1415 1416 s. d. 1417 1418
 Mr. Gillon  felt that the debate had been carried on on too narrow a basis, as the discussion had almost entirely been confined to the rate of interest on Exchequer-bills; but there were many other grave topics which, on taking a review of the financial state of the year, it was necessary to regard with attention. He trusted, that those disasters which the hon. Member for Whitehaven said would befal the country would be found to be fallacies, and that those anticipations which the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had expressed with regard to the
 1410 l. l. l.
 Sir F. Burdett  wished to know whether the noble Lord (J. Russell) would proceed on Monday with the Irish tithe resolutions?
 Sir G. Clerk  admitted the unexceptionable character of those individuals, but supported the amendment of his hon. Friend, as he thought it would be much more advisable to have a mixture of persons from the different counties in Scotland, in order to render the general board a popular elective body.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that no despatches had yet been received as to that fact.
 Mr. Easthope  was greatly surprised at hearing the statement made by the hon. Baronet the Governor of the Bank of England as to the present rate of interest on Exchequer-bills. He himself accidentally knew of a large concern, which having had occasion to borrow money on Exchequer-bills had done so at the rate of two per cent. Entertaining the objections he did to the present rate of interest on
 1419 s. s. 1420 1421
 Sir J. Reid  did not rise for the purpose of going into details with reference to the conduct of the Bank of England, particularly as a day had been fixed when he should be quite prepared to enter into the subject and when he flattered himself the Bank would be enabled to vindicate the course which on all occasions it had pursued. He chiefly rose to avail himself of this opportunity of confirming the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman with reference to America. He did think the conduct of America had been most honourable. From his own knowledge, connected as he was with a very considerable number of merchants, he was enabled to say, that in many cases they made sacrifices to the extent of ten, twenty, and thirty per cent., in order to meet their liabilities to this country. He had often wished to have an opportunity of stating his sentiments on this subject. He felt satisfied, that their debts would be paid, which were now in a course of liquidation and his firm belief was, that the confidence which existed between the two countries, and properly so, would be increased, and the trade between America and England would be greater than ever. With respect to the fault found with the Bank, that Corporation did all it could to promote the interests of the country, and he regretted that it was so often found fault with. But the Bank must bear it.
 Sir R. Peel : Then I understand, that the measure will be limited to the conversion of tithe composition into a rent charge, and be disen cumbered of the redemption clause? [Lord J.  Russell
 Sir R. Peel  said, that any announcement on this subject was of importance; but he was afraid he imperfectly understood the nature of the noble Lord's proposition. He did not ask the noble Lord to give him any more detailed explanation but the noble Lord must feel, that it was impossible for any person standing in his (Sir R. Peel's) situation, after what had
 1365
 Mr. Hutt  could not let the present discussion close without making a few observations, as he felt a deep interest in one or two matters that had been adverted to. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had informed the House that the country had no surplus revenue, and that he therefore could propose no reduction of taxation. This, he was sure, was a statement which could not be satisfactory to the country, but it was a matter of necessity which there was no resisting; it was one of those vicissitudes to which a commercial country was exposed, and which was not chargeable on either the Government or the Legislature. He could not help feeling, however, that some degree of censure was justly due to the Government and the Legislature, for there had been an evident
 1411
 Mr. O'Connell  would decidedly vote against the continuance of this grant; and, in doing so, he would vindicate his uniform advocacy of the voluntary principle. He was favourable, however, to that portion of the grant which had reference to the French refugees, who were the descendants of the victims of an act of the basest treachery recorded in the pages of history—he alluded to the Revocation of the edict of Nantes.
 Mr. Wallace  on the part of the Dissenters of Scotland, and on the part especially of those whom he had the honour to represent, begged to say, that they had no wish to receive any portion of the public money; he should, therefore, vote for the proposed reduction.
 Mr. Williams  objected to so large a sum being expended without proper responsibility. He would propose, that it be reduced to 25,900 l.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that all they wanted was fair play, while the hon. Member for West Somerset seemed to wish for a dictatorship in favour of the Established Church. As the grant was the contribution of all sects in religion, they wanted that grant to be fairly divided amongst Protestants, Catholics, and Dissenters. They were all met there on equal terms, and all that those on his side of the House asked for was, equality and justice, and that the Government should superintend the distribution of the money, leaving the instruction to the care of the pastors.
 Mr. Acland  wished to know what was to be done in a small parish, where there were members of three different religious communities? Would the hon. Gentleman have three schools established? He thought, that the management of railroads and public works might be very well carried on by boards of direction; but, he thought it was not consistent with our English habits, to establish boards of education, and he hoped it never would be. He did not think the Government, being a human institution, ought to have the control of the religious instruction of the people. The institutions of this country were happily bound up with the Established Church, and that constitution of things ought to be respected. He must say, that there was a very efficient inspection of the national schools carried on by the clergy in each parish, and the benefits of those schools were not confined to the children of members of the Established Church, for a very large portion of the children of the Dissenters attended them.
 Mr. Villiers  said, that the whole of the argument of the hon. Member who had just sat down, was intended to prove, that there was sufficient inspection, because the schools were under the superintendence of the parochial clergy. But what was the fact? Was not the complaint general, that the country, in respect to religious instruction, was in a state of destitution, thus clearly showing, that an improved system of inspection was wanted? The hon. Gentleman had alluded to the establishment of a board as hostile to British habits; but surely that was no argument, for he believed, that England was far behind Prussia, and other continental countries, in point of education—a fact which was nowise creditable to England. He hoped the House would consider, that there had been nothing advanced against some im-
 45
 Lord John Russell  would endeavour to answer the questions which had been asked by the right hon. Gentleman. First, with respect to the appointment of the Executive Council, there had not been any special instructions upon that point. The Governor had the power to appoint for a time such persons, members of the Executive Council as he should think fit. Lord Durham had made use of that power by summoning as his Council certain persons whose names had appeared, and been published in the  Gazette 33
 Mr. Hindley  proposed, as an amendment, hat the item of 1,095 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, that he should afterwards, he trusted, have an opportunity of exposing the system of education commissions, when he brought the general subject of commissions under the consideration of the House. When, however,
 46 l.,
 Mr. Baines  observed, that it had been originally the gift of King George 1st. to the Dissenters, to whom he was indebted for important services. It had been continued as a gift by George 2nd, but his successor had it transferred to the shoulders of the public. He was of opinion, that when George 3rd made this transfer, the Dissenters, in assertion of the voluntary principle, should have declared against taking this allowance from the state, although there would be nothing objectionable in their taking it as a gift from the sovereign personally. If the matter should come to a vote, he (Mr. Baines) would vote for the discontinuance of the grant.
 Sir Edward Sugden  rose to ask some questions of the noble Lord in regard to what had taken place in Canada. The House were aware, that before the act relating to the suspension of the constitution in Canada passed, there were three public bodies, besides the Governor himself. There was the Executive Council, the Legislative Council, and the Legislative Assembly. By the act which had been passed this. Session, they had suspended the functions of the Legislative Council and the Legislative Assembly, but they did not interfere with the Executive Council. But that act authorised the Crown to appoint a Special Council, consisting of so many persons as the Crown might think proper to adopt; and, by a subsequent clause, no act was valid in which the initiative was not in the former, and that not less than five of the Council should be present. It appears by the last papers, that Sir John Colborne having received the act, on the 27th of March he proclaimed that act, and wrote a dispatch immediately to say, that he was enabled to appoint fifteen or twenty gentlemen to form a Special Council. By another despatch it also appeared, that he had appointed twenty-one, persons of whom eleven were French Canadians, two were Canadians, and the others were British. A session was held, in which business was transacted as it might be in that House, and he believed, that twenty-six
 32
 Mr. Goulburn  protested against the
 44
 Sir H. Hardinge  believed, that these transactions were twenty-three years old, and he was, therefore, not aware of the details, but there was one statement which the noble Lord made which seemed to him objectionable. The noble Lord seemed to say, that the Secretary at War could not be expected to give information upon military expenditure which had not passed through his own office. Why, almost everything that was expended passed through other channels, but the Secretary at War was always considered as one of the organs of the administration in that House, and when a question was put affecting his department he was always expected to give some explanation. It was, he thought, the province of the Secretary at War to afford explanation when the conduct of a general officer was brought before the House. These expenses had been incurred under the authority of the Treasury, and if the noble Lord had applied to Sir George Murray for the necessary explanation he would have experienced no delay. But the noble Lord refused any explanation, because the matter had not passed through his office. Under these circumstances he objected to the mode of answer given by the noble Lord, and he thought, that the noble Lord ought to afford the information required, and to state, whether he approved of the plans, whether he considered them public property, and whether they ought to be transferred into the hands of a private publisher, or published at the public expense? He thought it was competent to the noble Lord to give answers on these points.
 Sir H. Hardinge  would only observe, that the plans had never been finished, and it would, therefore, be useless to have deposited them in a public department.
 Sir H. Hardinge  would not prolong the discussion, but remind the House that Sir George Murray had incurred a great loss of time and trouble in placing the troops in those plans, and that they were not yet
 36
 Mr. Kemble  observed, that if the dissenting ministers felt, that this species of remuneration was inconsistent with their religious principles, nothing would be easier for them than to refuse it.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, he had been most anxious for the re-appointment of the committee of last year on this subject, but, at the same time, he had felt it would be useless to re-appoint unless they could be expected to come to a report in the present Session. This, however, he did not feel justified in expecting, because, the state of health of one of the principal officers of the department, whose evidence and suggestions as to improvements in the present system, it would have been most important for the Committee to hear, was such as not to permithis attendance.
 Mr. Labouchere  greatly regretted to state, that according to the general opinion of English artists, the execution of the medal for her Majesty's coronation did not answer the expectations entertained from the well-merited reputation of Signor Pistrucci. To show, however, how capable that artist was of elegant design
 38
 Mr. Labouchere  would be very sorry to see omitted the coinage of these small silver coins, which was usual at the beginning of each reign. The practice had never been omitted, he believed, since the Conquest. The series of silver pennies was the most perfect of any class of our coins; but, he could not think that any public benefit could arise from the circulation of silver coins lower than 4 d. 39
 Mr. Warburton  said, the right hon. Gentleman had been understood to hold out hopes at the beginning of the Session, of the re-appointment of the committee, which sat last Session on the Mint, and especially the engraving department, and he thought it very possible, that if that re-appointment had taken place, this imperfect production would not have appeared. He believed, that if the matter had been fully gone into, it would have been found, that the nation paid most extravagantly for the works designed and executed in the engraving department. With respect to a coinage of silver three-pennies, he thought such a coin would be xtremely convenient.
 Mr. Warburton  had no wish to derogate from the real merits of the managers of the Mint. He thought, the greatest possible improvement had taken place in the coinage of the country, as would be seen by comparison of the present with the coins some years back.
 Mr. Warburton  moved the third reading of this bill,
 Mr. Leader  had to call the attention of the House to a paper which had been laid on the table relative to the expenses of Captain Mitchell's mission to the Peninsula. All those who had read the excellent work of Colonel Napier were aware, that for the purposes of his work he wished to see the maps and plans of Captain Mitchell. He had been referred to Sir George Murray, who refused to let him see them, and never since had he been able to obtain access to them. These maps and plans had been paid for by the public money; they should have been deposited in a public office, where the public might see them. But now he understood, that these maps were about to be published as a private speculation. He wished to know if this were correct?
 Mr. Hume  had moved for a return, in order to ascertain whether the maps and plans were public property or not, as he considered it a matter of great importance. It appeared that nearly 5,000 l. 34
 Mr. Hume  thought it a great pity that these coronation medals could not be put into the pot and remelted. He was sorry for the misfortune of Signor Pistrucci, but he thought that if ever there was a case in which the credit of the Master of the Mint was involved, that something worthy of the British Mint should be put forth it was that of the medal struck for the late coronation, and he thought that corresponding efforts ought to have been made. Why, some of the medals that were selling in the streets for 1 d.
 Mr. Hume  wished to call the attention of the Committee to two items in this grant—namely, one containing the salaries paid to the chaplains at our different foreign factories, and another containing the expenditure incurred for building chapels abroad. He contended, that where the congregations were sufficiently numerous, they should pay the salaries of their own chaplains: for the rule now in force, that where the congregation paid one half of the salary, the Government would pay the other half, was most unfair, as in many of the foreign factories more than half the residents were Scotchmen and Presbyterians, and the rest were generally Roman Catholics from Ireland, whilst the chaplain belonged, almost as a matter of course, to the Church of England. He thought, that from this item 5,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  supported the amendment.
 Mr. Hume  thought the example of other Governments had been too much followed in this matter, and the time had now arrived when secret service money should be dispensed with altogether. It was only a cloak for improper proceedings. He should not vote for its diminution, but against any grant whatever.
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  thought, that perhaps it would be felt desirable to appoint a minister of public instruction.
 Mr. Slaney  objected strongly to the present mode of distributing this vote; some efficient system of inspection was indispensable.
 Mr. Gibson  said, he should vote for the grant, were it only for the purpose of marking his opinion of the insufficiency of any voluntary system. The poorer ministers of religion could never be otherwise supported than out of the public purse.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had been applied to to withdraw this vote, but he could not do so; first, because he could not affirm the voluntary principle, to which he continued opposed; and, secondly, because, he could not withdraw that which had been conceded originally as a grant by King George 1st.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was decidedly opposed to the voluntary principle, and therefore, could not entertain any objection to the vote on that ground.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped, that next Session, some legislative measure for establishing a system of inspection over these schools might be carried.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  denied, that there was a want of responsibility as regarded secret service money. It was mainly used for the purposes of the Foreign-office, and no portion of it was disbursed otherwise than by the authority of the Secretary of State, or the Under-Secretary, who declared upon oath the amount so expended, and that the same was for public uses. All sums privately expended in other offices were similarly sworn to. He thought it would be hard if the circumstance of England being a free country should deprive us of those advantages in the way of secret information which our rivals and opponents were always enabled to enjoy. He further observed, that the amount had been gradually reduced, and was this year lower than ever.
 Mr. Wyse  thought the locality ought to provide for the religious instruction of the resident poor, but that the Government ought to provide the means of intellectual education. The locality ought to settle the point as to the mode of communicating religious instruction, but the Government should see, that it was communicated, and, at the same time, take care that a system of literary education was established.
 Sir R. Inglis  could not consent to the doctrine, that because Parliament of late had interfered with the property of the Church, they had a right to interfere also with the religion and mode of instruction adopted and sanctioned by the Church. For himself, he should be sorry ever to see Government interfere in the instruction of the people to such an extent as some hon. Members seemed willing to sanction, as he believed, that such interference could only tend to retard rather than to promote the advance of instruction amongst the people. He objected to the mode in which the grant was disposed of at present, as he considered, that the education of the people ought to be in the hands of the national Church. He would never scruple to say so, because such was his conscientious opinion, and he believed, that there was in the country a growing feeling, that instruction ought to be under the superintendence of the Church.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to know whether the prohibition was universal, that our consuls should not engage in commercial dealings?
 Viscount Howick  said, that this subject was one upon which the War-office had no authority whatever, and it was therefore, totally out of his power to make inquiry on the subject. The original authority for the expense had been given by the Treasury of the day. The Secretary at War had not been consulted, and there had been no correspondence with the Secretary at War. A direct authority was given to the Commander-in-chief to incur the expense. The maps had never been in the custody of the War-office, and as Secretary at War he had no authority, and no responsibility on the subject.
 Viscount Howick  had a very simple answer to give to the hon. Member. All the information he possessed was contained in the return which was before the House. The transaction had occurred long before he was in office.
 Viscount Howick : And the officer who had to finish the maps was employed in New South Wales. He thought, that these maps and plans ought to have been deposited, not in the custody of an individual officer, but in some public department; and the right hon. Baronet knew as well as he did that there were various departments in which they might have been deposited, which were independent of the War-office, and subject to no control from the War-office. He believed, that the best that could be done was now doing, and that the arrangement with respect to publication was the best that could be made; but the original transaction namely, incurring these expenses without the knowledge of the Secretary at War, was, in his opinion, a most irregular and improper course.
 Viscount Howick  said, that the right
 35
 Viscount Palmerston  reminded the right hon. Baronet, that before the year 1826 our consuls could levy, not only fees on all notarial acts, as they did at present, but also fees on the tonnage of the different British ships which came to the port, at which they were stationed. This produced a great inequality in the amount of the emoluments received by our consuls, especially on the south American stations, and also led to various descriptions of abuses. His right hon. Friend, Mr. Canning, had discontinued that system, and had given our consuls fixed salaries in lieu of fees. The notarial fees, however, still continued; they were small in amount, and did not vary much from year to year. With respect to the prohibition, preventing our consuls from engaging in trade, he had only to reply, that it was not universal. The prohibition was given or not, according to the nature of the appointment. Wherever the consul was more of a political, than of a commercial agent, and had diplomatic functions to perform—as in most of the states of South America—there he was prohibited from engaging in trade? but in other places, as in Europe, where we had distinct diplomatic agents, and where the consuls had only commercial functions to execute, there he had no objection to let the consuls engage in commercial pursuits; for, by so doing, it enabled the country, to obtain consuls on smaller salaries, than it would otherwise be able to obtain them.
 Viscount Palmerston  had great pleasure in informing the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that the grant for defraying the I salaries of chaplains was founded on more liberal principles, than he appeared to imagine; for it permitted contributions to be made by Government, to the chaplains of congregations belonging to the Church of Scotland as well as to the chaplains belonging to congregations of the Church of England. The condition on which, that grant was made was, that the congregation should themselves pay one half of the chaplain's salary, and, that the Government, on being furnished with the chaplain's receipt for that sum, should
 37
 Viscount Sandon  should vote for continuing the grant, so long as it was received.
 Mr. O'Connell  replied, that he did not want the House to make any grant of money. All that he wanted was a receipt for money which had been already granted. As there was an objection to his motion
 90 l.,
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that before the House should resolve itself into Committee upon this bill, he rose for the purpose of moving an instruction to the Committee, which he considered to be an indispensable preliminary, and without which he saw no chance whatever of the successful working of the bill. He would not for a moment delude the House by the supposition that this bill was calculated to work well: on the contrary, he thought, that it would increase the existing amount of dissatisfaction and disturbance in Ireland, unless they agreed to the resolution which he was about to propose, and which he should most certainly feel it to be his duty to press to a division. He felt, that the House must listen with natural reluctance to a renewed discussion upon Irish affairs, a lengthened discussion having not long since taken place upon this particular subject; and he (Mr. O'Connell) would gladly omit any fresh allusion to those topics, if he were not impressed with the deepest sense of their importance. It was for the House to take into consideration the present state of Ireland, to examine how far the proposed remedy was applicable, and to see whether in the attempt to amend a mischief they did not positively increase the evil. At the present moment the affairs of Ireland were pregnant with the utmost danger. It was true that for the last three or four years a system of conciliation had been carried on by the Government of that country; that the policy of that Government had been that of vigilance in the detection, united to firmness in the suppression, of crime, accompanied by a soothing and conciliatory spirit towards the mass of the people. For the first time in the lapse of centuries the people had become reconciled to the administration of an English Government. Great, however, as were the advantages of that novel system of policy, it had by no means cured the evil, the substantial evil—which consisted in real unmitigated oppression, and in the deep-rooted conviction of the people that they were suffering under downright injustice. So long as the fact existed that nine-tenths of the Irish population consisted of Roman Catholics and Presbyterians, it was idle to think of forming any scheme for reconciling them to pay for maintaining the re-
 85 l. 86 l. l. l. l. l. l. 87 l. 88 l., 89
 Lord Stanley  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite pressed his motion to a division, and if it were consistent with the forms of the House, he should feel it his duty to support it. He wished to guard himself against more than expressing an opinion, in which he fully concurred with the hon. Gentleman, that the bill would fail in a beneficial result, even in a larger degree than was anticipated, if it did not involve some provision for the settlement of the arrears. The immediate object of the acts which had been already passed was, to promote the peace and tranquillity of Ireland, by substituting a payment to the clergy from the landlords, the majority of whom were Protestants, for a payment by the occupying tenants, who he was ready to admit were very little able to bear the burden, and were, besides, of a religion different from that of the Established Church. In his opinion the whole benefit to be derived from the bill must depend on the condition, that from the period when the bill shall have come into operation there shall be no more demands made by the Protestant clergy upon the Roman Catholic population. The bill, he repeated, would fail in its object if the House either allowed or compelled the clergy, in vindication of their rights, to proceed against the occupying tenants for the arrears now due. The question for the House to consider was a grave and serious one—namely, in what manner, doing justice to all parties and injustice to none, it was possible to provide for the payment of those arrears. His right hon. Friend opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had
 91 92 l. O'Connell: 93
 Mr. O'Connell  thought there was a great deal of truth in what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and that his
 112 l. l.
 Lord Stanley  begged to say a word with respect to the amount to be required. He understood his right hon. Friend did
 113 l. l. l.
 Mr. O'Connell  had much pleasure in agreeing to the suggestions of the noble Lord.
 The Chancelor of the Exchequer  hoped the House would treat the matter as a grant of public money. One thing he would object to was, the Government undertaking to levy the tithes from the occupying tenant. To that proposition he had very great objections. He thought it was also worthy of consideration whether the House in its generosity would relieve the landlords from that liability which they were under, having partaken of the loan. The question, though it appeared to have the concurrence of both sides of the House, was well worthy of grave deliberation. As to the 640,000 l.
 Colonel Perceval  was happy that an
 114
 Mr. O'Connell  withdrew his motion.
 Mr. Ayshford Sandford  seconded the motion. He was one of those who, at the time of the introduction of the new law, anticipated the evils that would flow from it. It had been introduced in consequence of the grievances to which the licensing system had given rise. Now, although he was hostile to the existing law, he by no means wished to re-introduce the licensing
 120
 Lord Ingestrie  said, that the beer-shops in his part of the country had been productive of the worst possible consequences. They were the resort of the ill-disposed, and crimes of all kinds were concocted in them. So far from being hostile to the education of the people he had always done all in his power to promote that object; but, as he could not see what connection there was between education and the beer-shops, he must press upon the House the necessity of adopting some step, and that speedily, for getting rid of the evil, which throwing open the sale of beer indiscriminately had given rise to.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that if there were no licensed victuallers he was sure there would be no complaint against beer-shops. All they were doing was this, making the beer-shops bad, by giving them a bad character. What they ought to do was to encourage men of the best character to enter into competition in this business. His opinion was, that the people in his country were much better conducted than they were in this; and yet in his country he could produce to them a village in which every other house was a public-house, and where he was quite sure the people were more sober than they were at Crockford's, or at any club-house or public-house in London.
 Mr. Villiers  said, the noble Lord, the member for South Staffordshire had said, that a large portion of his constituents, and some of them must also be his (Mr. Villiers's),had given it as their opinion that every crime and every vice committed in that part of the country, was to be attributable to the beer-houses. Now, he must say, he had not received any information of that kind. He was disposed to support the proposition of the hon. Member for Manchester, (Mr. M. Phillips), that no steps should be taken this year, that the inquiry should be postponed until the next, and by that time the House could have petitions or facts upon which to proceed. No allegations had been made in this debate on which the House could place credit—nothing had been brought forward but hearsay evidence. He for one, denied, that the Beer Act had done any mischief. What was the case the very year before the bill passed? Why, the southern counties of England were all but in a state of insurrection, neither life nor property was safe, and that occurred the very year before selling beer to be
 127
 Mr. Aglionby  was afraid that the country would think the feelings of that House was in favour of monopoly, and against the wishes of the public at large. He did not think, that they had any evidence before them which would justify a committee of inquiry; but still he was obliged to the noble Lord for moving for returns which under any view of the case would be valuable, inasmuch as they would show whether the evils complained of existed or not. In large towns, where there was a good police, throwing open the trade in beer was attended with no danger what ever, and he doubted whether any was to be apprehended in the remote or rural districts. He thought, that it was a great advantage to the poor to be able to obtain good and wholesome beer at a cheap rate, and therefore, although he agreed that some attention should be paid to the character of the parties keeping beer-shops, he hoped that Government would not deprive the poor of this advantage.
 Lord F. Egerton  rose to call the attention of the House to the state of the law affecting the Sale of Beer. Various petitions had been presented on the subject; especially one from upwards of 6,000 inhabitants of Manchester and Salford, among whom were nearly fifty clergymen, thirty-five of whom were
 118 119
 Lord J. Russell  agreed in the proposition made by the right hon. Baronet, but the matter required to be gravely considered. He would give the subject his best consideration, and hoped to be able to propose something to the House which would prove satisfactory. As to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, with respect to the loss which would accrue to the revenue, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would in consideration thereof, do his best in any future debates which might take place on the question of tithes to render the proposed adjustment a satisfactory one.
 Lord John Russell  said, the first proposition made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin was, that some arrangement should be made respecting the arrears due upon the advance made on account of the tithe properties, in order to their total discharge. Another question had since then been started respecting the portion of the million which had been actually advanced to the tithe-owners, and not repaid, Now, upon this subject he
 107 l. 108 109 l.
 Lord John Russell  was very doubtful as to the formality of the hon. and learned Gentleman's motion, and, even if it were carried, he did not think that it would obtain for him the object which he proposed. His right hon. Friend near him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had a proposition to make with regard to the arrears of tithes, and when that proposition was submitted to the House would be the most proper time to take the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposal into consideration.
 Mr. Hawes  was perfectly willing to admit, that the motive which actuated the noble Lord was a good one; that the only object which the noble Lord had in view was the amelioration of both the
 124 125
 Mr. Hindley  was not favourable to the beer-shop system, because it threw temp-
 129
 Mr. Lucas  had never heard a discussion with more pleasure, and he had no doubt that the debate of the three last hours would do more to the settlement of the Irish tithe question than all parties had been able to effect in the last four years. He hoped there was very little difference between the two parties composing the House on this question; at least, it appeared to him clear, that no hon. Gentleman desired to recur to the clergyman for the collection of the money advanced to him. His belief was, they would not be able to recur to that petty warfare between the clergy and the occupier. It would be utterly impossible for any government to carry out any bill with such a blot in it as a proposition for recurring to the occupiers of the soil for the recovery of tithes. If a recurrence were had to the occupiers of Ireland, the great difficulty would be with respect to a final adjustment of this measure. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire had said, that it was the duty of the State, for the purpose of procuring peace by an adjustment of this question, to make some concession; that the clergy should, on their part, make some sacrifice, and that a sacrifice should also be made by the landlords. In this opinion he fully concurred, and as far as he was acquainted with the clergy and landlords of Ireland, he was sure they would be satisfied with any reasonable arrangement which held out a prospect of a successful and satisfactory adjustment of the question. The hon. and learned Gentleman, the Member for Dublin, had not, in the observations which he had addressed to the House, stated any definite plan. As a sacrifice had been mentioned, he would venture to assert, that there would be no sacrifice—there would be no absolute loss incurred. It was merely a loan, and the thing was, to take care that there should be sufficient security for its repayment. The question of difficulty was not so much as to whether the amount should be moderate or otherwise, but as to the chance of recovering, and whether it was necessary,
 110
 Mr. Darby  said, there was scarcely a respectable labourer in the country that did not set his face against the beer-shops. He denied, that the new beer-shop system was either a comfort or an advantage to the poor. On the contrary, his belief was that it tended only to demoralize the lower classes, and he, for one, felt much obliged to the noble Lord for having brought the subject forward. When they found that, instead of doing good, it only produced evil, he thought the best thing they could do would be to get rid of it altogether as a nuisance, which ought to be discontinued as speedily as possible.
 Mr. Warburton  saw no doubt, looking at the source from which the invitation to petition came, there would next Session be, as the noble Lord had said there should be, a very large number of petitions sent to Parliament against the beer shops. Ever since the act passed authorising these establishments, they had been exceedingly unpopular with the magistrates and the clergy. He thought if they had a committee to inquire respecting the conduct of the beer shops, they ought to have a committee of the labouring classess to inquire into the effect of the houses of entertainment generally. No doubt their report would be, that at clubs and such places there was much drinking of champagne and other wines, that people spent time there which they had much better spend elsewhere, that there was not a little gambling, &c. He did not deny the necessity of police regulations, but let them apply equally. The last committee appointed recommended certain regulations respecting the closing of the beer shops, but that committee said, those regulations ought also to be enforced against the licensed victualling houses. The report of the committee had remained a dead letter. So much for the impartiality which a certain party was disposed to deal out.
 The Speaker  observed, that the motion appeared to him to be informal, inasmuch as it was, in point of fact, asking for a grant of public money.
 Mr. Parrott  said, that so far from the magistrates of his part of the country finding fault with the New Beer Act, their opinion was, that it had been productive of very great benefit to the poor. For the magistrates of his part of the country he could say, that they had no wish to return back to the old licensing system, but, he was at the same time aware, that there were parties who were anxious to have the present law repealed. Instead of paying 4 d. d. d. d.
 Mr. Brotherton  fully concurred that the subject ought to be inquired into, as exposing men to temptation was not the best mode of checking evil. There could be no doubt that the new beer-shops had led to intemperance—that intemperance led to poverty—and that poverty led to crime. He must say, that the noble Lord was entitled to the thanks of the country for the attention which he had bestowed on this important subject. He would not undertake to point out what the remedy was that they ought to apply, but still it was his opinion that, as evil existed, it should be removed with as little loss of time as possible. He had no wish to do injustice to those who had invested their property in this trade, but he, at the same time, thought that any system which occasioned intemperance on the part of the labouring poor, ought to be put an end to at all risks. He was an advocate for free trade, but where the particular article produced demoralization, he fully concurred in the propriety of imposing restrictions. It was well known that many of the beer-shops were kept by disreputable persons—that they were the resort of the ill-disposed, and that
 128
 Mr. Hume  said, that in his opinion the people of England were about to be defrauded of a large sum in order to support an Establishment which ought to have been reduced long ago, but, at the same time, Ireland and England were in such a situation that every friend of peace must desire to see an end put to agitation. Did the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, mean to say, that the sacrifice of 307,000 l. 105 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  could regard the object with which such motions as the present were brought forward only as meddling interferences with the comforts of the poor. He did not understand why the poor man should not be allowed to drink his pot of beer where and when he chose, and where he could get it best and cheapest, whether within the doors of a beer shop or in the street. It was melancholy to see those who were in possession of the highest luxuries so anxious to deprive the poor of every little comfort. In his opinion they did not look high enough for the evils of which they complained. He attributed much of the crime to the want of education. Ignorance was the root of the evil. The people were brought up like brute beasts. What education was given to them? There were a few charities, but the people had a right to be educated. They had as much right to education as as they had to a provision for the sustenance of the body. He begged the hon. Gentlemen opposite to inform him what education was afforded to three-fourths of the agriculturists? The noble Lord said he had received information from some one in London of the demoralization caused by the Beer Bill. Would the noble Lord state who the party was? He (Mr. Hume) knew that the licensed victuallers had been very busy in getting up an opposi-
 122
 Mr. Sergeant Jackson  said, that there was not a more laborious and conscientious body of men than the clergy of Ireland. He denied, also, that they were overpaid; their incomes did not average more than 250 l. 106
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the right hon. Baronet had, in the course of his speech, adverted to him in rather a pointed manner. He should not be provoked in consequence of this, more than to suggest to the right hon. Baronet himself, that perhaps some appointments had been made, when he was in power, of Gentlemen as distinguished for the vehemence of their partisanship, at least, as he was, not perhaps upon the question of the Church, but upon others quite as exciting in Ireland. But he would not, by pursuing this subject, interfere with the just and whole-
 102 l. l. s. s. s. s. 103 l. l. s. s. s. s. s. de jure de facto 104
 Mr. Slaney  said, it was his misfortune very often to disagree with the opinions on both sides of the House. The hon. Member for Lambeth denied, that there had been any increase of crime, but in this statement the hon. Gentleman was clearly mistaken. Crime had increased fearfully throughout the country, and it was, therefore, the duty of that House to institute inquiry as to the cause, and how the evil could be best remedied. He admitted, however, that the cure for the evil would not be obtained by a return to monopoly in the article of beer. It was to be remembered, that beer-houses were very different in towns from what they were in the country. In London, for instance, they heard the effect of beer-shops was by means of competition to reduce the price of beer to a moderate sum, while, in the country, beer-shops were established in obscure places, and were on that ground very objectionable. It was his opinion that they ought to require a criterion of some property before a beer-shop could be established. It was his opinion, that there ought to be some improvement in the mode of granting licences to beer-shops. It was plain that the increase of beer-shops had not prevented an increase in the consumption of spirits. Within twenty years the consumption of spirits had risen from 9,000,000 of gallons to that of 27,000,000 gallons. He attributed a great deal of the consumption of spirits to the negligence on the part of the police. He thought the police were on this point scandalously negligent in their duty, for any hon. Gentleman going home at two o'clock in the morning could see, that the spirit-shops were open at that hour.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  agreed entirely with his noble Friend opposite (Lord Stanley), that the present measure would be defective, unless they made some provision for the payment of the arrears. He also agreed with his noble Friend, in thinking the question one of great difficulty and importance. Before he explained his plan, he wished to meet an objection made by his noble Friend, but which applied to his noble Friend's suggestion as well as to his own plan. Nothing could be more plausible than to say, that the House ought not to countenance a principle the effect of which conferred a reward upon those who had pertinaciously resisted the law. He felt strongly (none could feel it more) the inconvenience of calling upon the House to affirm by Act of Parliament a measure producing such a result. He must say, however, that every plan for the settlement of this question was open to the same objection, and they could only get rid of it, by rigidly enforcing all the arrears from all the parties. His noble Friend had come to a conclusion which had certainly surprised him very much. His noble Friend had stated, that the plan which he proposed, involved no sacrifice from the state. Why, it involved no less a sacrifice by the state than giving up the right to the recovery of a sum of 640,000 l. 94 l. 95 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  gave full credit to the noble Lord for the motive which had induced him to come forward with the present motion, but, at the same time, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was bound to confess, that he was not yet convinced by any facts or any arguments which had been advanced, that an invasion of the principle of the law, as it now stood, would lead to such an improvement in the morals of the people as the noble Lord and those who thought with him supposed. He had always been of opinion that the measure of the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for the University of Cambridge, which destroyed the old monopoly and opened the trade in beer, was one of the wisest and most prudent acts of the Legislature that he had ever in his time seen introduced into Parliament. He believed, that the benefit conceded to the public by that measure was much greater than any loss that might have resulted in a financial point of view. He believed, too, that the relief which it afforded to a great trade from vexatious interpositions of the Excise was another very great benefit. With respect to the increase of crime, which had been so much relied on, he could not at all admit that increase to be a consequence of the Beer Act. Nor had he any more faith in the allegations which were made of a greatly increased consumption of spirituous liquors. Where were the proofs of it? Gin-shops in London were not on the increase, but quite the reverse. What would be the effect of any alteration of the present law that should put an end to the sale of beer in those houses? Would it not be to bring on again the old monopoly, and all the evils of the licensing system? He did not mean to say, that the existing law was incapable of improvement, but he wished most earnestly to deprecate any return to the old system? Therefore, though he had no objection to this return, and though he was aware that no proceedings were to be taken upon the motion
 121
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  rose to call the attention of the House to a petition from the inhabitants of Albany, in the colony of the Cape of Good Hope, presented by him on the 15th of June last. That settlement had been founded as a frontier post, for the protection of our colony against occasional predatory incursions of the Caffre tribes, previously bordering on the inlands of our ancient settlements. The tract of country inhabited by these advanced colonists had received additions from time to time and was denominated the ceded territory. It was peopled by British subjects of an honest and industrious character, who conveyed thither their skill and capital during the Government of Lord Charles Somerset, and they remained there on the faith of receiving protection and support from the British Government. The colonists complained that faith had not been kept with them, and made various representations of the losses they sustained from being immediately in contact with a barbarous enemy. These representations had been neglected by the Government at home, and the interests of the colonists had been sacrificed, so much so that the ceded territory had been entirely given up
 115
 Mr. Winthrop Praed , in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice for papers respecting the Government of Oude, wished to ask the right hon. Baronet opposite two questions connected with it. It was, he believed, an acknowledged fact, that on the death of the late King of Oude, the British resident, at Lucknow, had interfered with an armed force to place the third son of the deceased King on the throne; and that that interference had caused the loss of a thousand lives. The questions which he wished to put to the right hon. Baronet were, first, whether the steps which had been taken by the British resident at Lucknow, or by the East-India Company, with respect to the succession to the throne of Oude, had any connection with the payment of the debts due by the government of Oude to the Company; and, secondly, whether the despatches which had been sent to Lord William Bentinck, authorising him to take possession of the territory of Oude, had any connection with the steps which had been taken with respect to the succession to the throne of Oude? The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving for a number of papers connected with the succession of the government of Oude.
 Sir George Grey  said, the case before them had already been sufficiently gone into by means of the inquiry instituted, and the documents submitted in consequence of the inquiry to the consideration of the House. It was a lamentable fact that the state of this part of the colony could hardly be worse than it notoriously had been for some years past, owing in a great degree to the aggression of British subjects upon the aboriginal inhabitants, and their endeavours to extend their territory in this quarter for selfish and interested purposes. The pretext for these enlargements of territory from year to year had been, the presumed necessity of increasing the security and safety of the colonists, by placing an intermediate territory between them and the Caffre tribes. The result was aggression on the part of the colonists often causeless and unpro-
 116 117
 Sir John Hobhouse  said, that he had no objection to give the best answers that he could, to both the hon. Gentleman's questions; and he hoped, that those answers would prove satisfactory. To the production of the papers, also, with some slight alterations, he had no objection; and when they were produced, the hon. Gentleman and the House would be as well able as he was, to form a competent opinion of the conduct, which had been
 133
 Mr. Pakington  expressed his gratitude to the noble Lord for having brought this subject forward. It was almost impossible to over-rate the seriously prejudicial effect which this measure had had upon the morals of the people.
 Sir J. Guest  said, that in his part of the country he knew the new beer-shop system was much condemned, and that an alteration of it was loudly called for, not only by the better classes, but by a great portion of the poor. In one village, that he could mention, there were at least one hundred beer-shops, and their existence had led to every species of disorder and immorality.
 Mr. M. Phillips  admitted, that there were just grounds of complaint against the new beer-shop system, and it was his intention next session to move for a committee of inquiry on the whole subject. He was prejudiced in favour of neither one party nor the other, and therefore when the facts were really ascertained he should be prepared to concur in any measure that the House might deem expedient to remedy the existing evil.
 Sir Robert Bateson  did not wish, at so late an hour, to enter into a full discussion of this subject, but, in moving for the return of which he had
 131
 Sir Robert Peel  observed, that this discussion related to arrears due to the Irish clergy, which might be considered under different heads. First, as to the arrears which were covered by the advance of 640,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 96 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 97 l. l. l. l. 98 l. 99 100 l. 101
 Sir R. Peel : The importance of the subject is my only excuse for trespassing again on the indulgence of the House. I do not despair, that some settlement of this question, consistent with justice, may be arrived at; and I beg to submit to the consideration of the Committee, a proposal offered with that view, and the main grounds of which I shall now state. In the first place, as you can do nothing without a commission, let one be appointed. It is impossible, unless you mean to act blindly, that you should proceed in this case without intrusting to some such body the necessary powers for carrying the plan, which I mean to submit, into operation. Do not guarantee to pay the amount of the arrears, but place at the disposal of this commission 307,000 l. l. l. 111 l. l.
 Viscount Dungannon  said, that in his neighbourhood it was found, that most of the crime that was committed was concocted in the beer shops. He trusted the return moved for, would make out such a case as to induce her Majesty's Ministers to take the matter up. Hon. Gentlemen opposite might look with jealousy to these complaints, because of the quarter from which they came, because they proceeded
 123
 Viscount Morpeth  would not offer the slightest opposition to the motion of the hon. Member. There was nothing in the system of the Government of Ireland which required concealment, and he had, therefore, no objection to produce the accounts which had been moved for. He would just explain that, as to the revision of the magistrates having been made hastily, it had entirely arisen from the necessity of the commissions being issued by a certain day, and that with respect to consulting the Lord-lieutenant, he held, that the right of appointing persons to the magistracy rested exclusively with the Lord Chancellor.
 Viscount Palmerston  was perfectly ready to state his concurrence in the opinion that this body of men had rendered very important service, and were entitled to the liberal consideration of the Portuguese government, because it was unquestionable that, if they had not defended Oporto, n all probability the result of the siege would have turned out differently from
 130
 Viscount Sandon  said, that the motion with which he meant to conclude was one to which he did not think, that the noble Lord (Palmerston) would object. It was for a copy of a letter, signed by Sir John Milley Doyle, and other officers of the auxiliary legion, complaining of the commission which had been appointed to investigate their claims. This body of men were induced to go out to Portugal, not with the direct encouragement of the Government, nor as in the case of Spain, by the repeal of an order in council; but it was notorious, that the expedition took place with the knowledge of the Government, and without any discountenance on their part. The service which they had rendered to the cause of Donna Maria was never disputed, the establishment of the present government of Portugal being mainly owing to their defence of Oporto, and their gallant exploits in other parts of Portugal. Their reward had been the greatest suffering and distress. For four years their claims had been kept in abeyance; commission after commission had been appointed, but with no satisfactory result to those ill-used persons. Even the present commission, which was of a more respectable character than those formerly appointed, must decide in a manner unfavourable to the claimants, if they wished their decision to be final; for, otherwise, the government of Portugal declared their intention of referring the question to another tribunal. The noble Lord concluded by moving for a copy of a letter to which he had adverted.
 Mr. S. Lefevre , in moving the second reading of the Parochial Assessment Bill, said that his object was to put an end to the contention which had of late arisen, in consequence of a mode of rating being adopted which was found to work most unsatisfactorily. The Parochial Assessment Act, which had been passed some time back, was framed with the view of introducing throughout all the parishes of England an uniform mode of rating, but a proviso was unfortunately introduced into that bill during its progress through the House of Lords, he believed at the suggestion of the Archbishop of Canterbury, the object of which was to secure to the clerical tithe-owner all the advantage which was taken from the land-owner by the decision in the case of the King  v. v. v. 135 v. v. 136 v.
 Mr. Aglionby  called upon the House, as it valued the Church itself, to pass this bill into law. The ground upon which he supported the proposed alteration of
 138
 Mr. Wallace  moved, that it be read a third time that day three months.
 Mr. Hawes  should not oppose the bill, though it was very far indeed from being the wholesome and salutary measure to which he had on a former occasion given his assent, and although he considered that while taking away the right of arrest by  mesne
 Mr. E. Buller  said, that the state of the law was such as to render legislation absolutely necessary. By the act of Parliament all property, whether capital or profit, was liable to be rated; and no custom, of however long standing, could set aside the clear intent of an act of Parliament. The decisions of judges were only valuable as interpreting acts of Parliament, but they could not alter them. He could not altogether support the present bill. He thought it was just and desirable as far as it was declaratory, but he objected to its enacting part, for it was an enacting bill, inasmuch as it declared, that certain property should not be liable to be rated. With this qualification, he would support the second reading of the bill, although at that late period of the Session, and considering the difficulties involved in it, there could not be much chance of its passing.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that upon mature reflection he was much inclined to think, that the principle of this bill was right. There were two grounds, however, upon which he was disinclined to vote in favour of the present bill. The first was, that the case of "The King  v. 139
 Mr. Darby  was quite convinced this was not a question of the clergy at all; but this one point ought to be considered—what would they do in cases which had been settled in direct opposition to "Rex  v. v. 140 v.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the hon. Gentleman in this bill very ingeniously concealed the object which he professed to have in view. He had no wish on the part of the clergy to avoid any burden that could be justly cast upon them by law. There was no desire on their part that they should not pay their full share of the burdens which Parliament imposed, whether for the general welfare of the country or for the maintenance of the poor within their parishes. All he claimed on their behalf was, that when they called upon all classes to contribute their proportion, the clergy should not be called upon to contribute more than fairly fell upon them. All he wished was, that the assessment should fall equally upon all classes. But how stood the present question? Two years since they had passed an act for the commutation of tithes in England and Wales, an act by which the clergy were called upon to forego any increase of property which should arise from an improvement of the agriculture of the country; and the clergy accepted in lieu of this an annual sum, founded upon the basis of what they had received during a certain antecedent period. This was in the nature of a bargain; for they called upon all parties to enter into a voluntary arrangement upon the principles laid down in the act? The 69th clause of that act enacted, that every rent-charge payable instead of tithe should be subject to all Parliamentary, parochial and other assessments, in like manner as the tithes were heretofore subject. He said, therefore, that if they now proposed to introduce a law which should make a difference with respect to the mode in which the rent-charges of the clergy should be rated to the poor-rates, leaving the charges themselves on the same footing they would most materially alter the conditions which they originally held out as an inducement to the clergy to agree to a general commutation. He thought upon
 137
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that it was satisfactory to know, that the bill, as it had
 144
 Dr. Nicholl  opposed the bill. The greatest injustice would be involved in its operation, for the tithe-owner was to be rated on the full amount, while the farmer was only rated to the extent of the rent he paid.
 Mr. R. Palmer  lamented, that the bill had not been brought forward at an earlier period of the Session. During the time this question was in agitation every arrangemement would be arrested in its progress, and no man be able to make a commutation of tithe satisfactorily. If the law were as the Attorney-general had stated, and a different decision to that in "Rex  v.
 The Attorney-General  quite concurred with the right hon. Gentleman, that the principle of this bill was the correct one, and was only sorry, that the right hon. Gentleman's vote should not coincide with the view he took of the principle of the bill. He agreed with the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, that this was not a question between the clergy and the laity, but between the tithe-owner and the land-owner. With regard to the case, "The King  v. v.
 The Attorney-General  said, he would not at the present stage offer any opinion on the suggested amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman, further than to say
 145
 The
 143  moved the second reading of the Imprisonment for Debt Abolition Bill, which had come down from the Lords, affirming a principle which had more than once received the sanction of that House. He would state in two sentences what the result of the present bill was. It abolished imprisonment for debt altogether on  mesne process, l. l.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  said, he looked upon the question not as one regarding the clergy only, but as a question between the tithe-owner on the one hand, and the land-owner on the other; and which ought to be decided simply according to the law which regulated tithes, as well as every other description of hereditament. He held, that it would be very unbecoming in an assembly consisting in great measure of landowners, to take from the tithe-owners, who, in this case were the weaker party, that which the existing law did not take from them; for this bill, which pretended to be a declaratory law, was actually an enacting bill, altering the state of the law as to these particular individuals. He trusted, that the House would not pass such a bill.
 Sir William Rae  moved, that the Small Debts Scotland bill be read a third time.
 Mr. W. Attwood  should vote against the proposition of the noble Lord on the ground that the result of it would be, if carried, to give a bonus to the land-borne coal at the expense of the sea-borne coal.
 Captain Gordon  said, it was a mistake to suppose there was no objection to the bill, because he had received a petition from Leith, which he had not as yet an opportunity of presenting, strongly deprecating the bill.
 Mr. F. Maule  said, it was most important this bill should pass, to enable the Parliamentary burghs to make provision for their self-government. He knew, that Scotland fully appreciated the justice of this bill, and no objection to it had proceeded from that country.
 Mr. F. Maule  moved, that the House do resolve itself into a Committee on the Parliamentary Burghs (Scotland) Bill.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, the sense of the House did not appear to him to be so much in favour of his proposition as to justify the House in dividing on it.
 Lord G. Somerset  contended, that the city, under the supervision of the Board of Trade, should have perfect freedom of action. He was anxious, that this clause should stand part of the bill; but he could not agree, that this proviso was to be considered as having the sanction of the Committee. The proposition of the hon. Member for Kilkenny was, to leave
 181
 Lord G. Somerset  then rose to move, that it be an instruction to the Committee to make provision for the repeal of such parts of the Acts 3 and 4 William 4th., cap. 36 (the Birmingham Railway Act,) 4 and 5 William 4th., cap. 38 (Southampton Railway Act), 5 and 6 William 4th., cap. 107 (Great Western Railway Act), 6 and 7 William 4th., cap. 75 (the London and Dovor, or South-eastern Railway Act), 6 and 7 William 4th., cap. 103 (London and Cambridge, or Northern and Eastern Railway Act), 6 and 7 William 4th., cap. 106 (London and Norwich, or Eastern Counties Railway Act), 6 and 7th William 4th., cap. 108 (Thames Haven Railway Act), 1 Vict., cap. 119 (Brighton Railway Act) as imposes a duty of one shilling and a penny per ton, to be paid to the corporation of the city of London, on coals carried on the several railways, sanctioned by those acts respectively, nearer to London than certain points specified in those several acts, and which points vary in distance from the limits of the city of London, from about fifteen to eighteen miles. As this was the first occasion on which the question had been fairly brought before the House since these clauses had been introduced, the House must affirm the principle, that the city of London dues should be rateable at 1 s. d. 171 s. s. d. s. d. 172
 Lord Teignmouth  could not support the motion of the noble Lord, because it appeared to him to be a partial way of meeting a great question, which was, whether this coal-tax should be continued or not. He thought considerable delusion existed on the subject of the coal-tax, and if that tax were removed, the consumers would not derive much benefit; but that if any party was benefitted, it would be the coal
 179
 Mr. A. Chapman  denied, that the river was in the state represented, for, owing to the great exertions of the harbour-masters, the river, from the Lower Pool to
 180
 Mr. A. White  said, that if the ship-owner was not allowed fifteen days for the sale of the cargo he would be put in a
 182
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that they had agreed to give to the corporation of London, subject to the supervision of the Board of Trade, the power of making bylaws, and the question was, whether they should limit that power to a particular period? He presumed it had been considered for the advantage of the coal trade of the metropolis, and of the navigation of the river, that that power should be given; and if it were given in one thing he saw no reason why it should not be given in another, or why it should be limited. If they conferred on the city the power of making by-laws, because they considered it inexpedient, that that House should legislate by by-laws, it would be the height of inconsistency, if they acted on that principle, to limit the power by this proviso. He would not offer any opinion as to the time, he would not say whether he thought fifteen days, or thirteen, or ten sufficient, and his reason for wishing to exclude the proviso was, because they could not ascertain now, much less for the future, what number of days ought to be applied. If they were to adopt this proviso, they would effectually bar themselves from obtaining any advantage of a regulation, that should fix less than fifteen days. He did not believe, if it were left to the corporation of London, that they would make any regulation, that would be inexpedient, and if they did, the Board of Trade would not consent to enforce it. He thought, upon the whole, that it would be better that power should be given in this instance, as well as in the others, to the city authorities to make what regulations they should think proper.
 Mr. Labouchere  objected to the House making those regulations which might be much more conveniently left to the corporation of the city of London, assisted by the Board of Trade. The hon. Member opposite objected to these vessels being sent into collier docks, and he (Mr. Labouchore) quite agreed with him, that it would be inconvenient to send them in, but that was not the question before the House. As a general principle he objected to the limitation which these regulations imposed, which should be more properly left to the discretion of the corporation of the city of London and the Board of Trade.
 Mr. Labouchere  could assure the House, that nothing would give him greater pleasure than to see a bill pass that House, the tendency of which would be to reduce the price of coals; but that must be done by fair and just means. He would not go into the regulations of the coal-owners in the north, nor would he attempt to justify them; but if they were illegal, an Act of Parliament ought to be introduced to counteract those combinations, and let that act be fairly passed. If the present bill was not passed, the city would not lose anything, because the city would immediately revert to their ancient dues—to dues levied in an infinitely more inconvenient manner to the public than those that were levied by this bill. Looking at every part of the bill, it must be taken as making a good bargain for the public. He felt bound, in justice to the city, and to all the great interests that were concerned, to resist the proposal made as strenuously as he could. It would be most improper to do anything which would tend to injure the shipping interest, for the sake of giving a partial benefit to another interest. Under all the circumstances, he hoped the House would not consent to the motion of the noble Lord. He believed it would cast a most serious impediment in the way of the bill passing at all—a bill which was calculated to confer so great a benefit on the community. There was one provision in the bill, to which he must for a moment refer. The city, under the present law, possessed the right of levying 1 s. d. 173 l.
 Mr. Labouchere  moved the further consideration of the Report on the Coal Trade (Port of London) Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  agreed, in a great measure with the sentiments of his hon. Friend; at the same time, he should wish the bill to pass into a law, subject to the clauses proposed by the noble Lord opposite. A more scandalous monoply and a more scandalous combination never existed than that which affected the coal trade. He would now state to the House certain facts which he did not see in the report of the Committee of this year, but which had been partly elicited by the evidence brought before the Committee of 1836. The President of the Board of Trade had introduced a bill exempting coal exported from the greater part of the duty to which it was subjected, and the consequence of this was, that a greatly increased trade was going on with the north of England for the exportation of coals to foreign ports. If the owners of coal merely demanded the same price from the English consumer as they did from the foreign one, there could be no room for complaint. But that was not the rule they adopted. They sold their coals at 1 s. s. d. 174
 The Lord Advocate  moved, that the further consideration of the Bankrupts' Estates (Scotland) Bill be deferred till Saturday.
 The Lord Advocate  was rather surprised at the tone of his right hon. Friend. No doubt this bill had been before the House for five years, but similar bills had been before the House twelve or fifteen years, and it was extremely difficult to obviate the various objections made to the bill. If there was any ground for further deliberation he had no objection to give the opportunity. If his right hon. Friend had adopted a different tone, he might, perhaps, have been disposed to accede to his suggestions, but under the present circumstances he could not.
 Mr. Hume  moved the omission of the last paragraph—"Provided also that no such regulations which apply exclusively to the coal trade shall prevent any vessel from remaining with the cargo thereof unsold within the port of London for a period not exceeding fifteen days." One great nuisance connected with the coal trade was, the great number of vessels allowed to remain in the river, frequently for several weeks. The committee discussed the remedy to meet this complaint, and it was agreed, that powers should be given to the committee of the city to make such regulations as would remove the complaints now existing of the great crowd of colliers that interfered so much with the navigation of the river. In order to protect the interest of the public against the errors of the city authorities, it was proposed, that all the regulations should be made by the navigation committee, but could not be acted upon without the sanction of the Board of trade. If the proviso were retained, the city authorities could not remove any vessel unless they had remained in the river more than fifteen days. Any one at all acquainted with the state of the river, must be well aware that such a length of time was too long, for it was much incommoded, and the authorities ought to have power to remove them sooner. He thought the proviso would stultify the whole powers given by the bill. He hoped the House would concur in the propriety of leaving the whole of the regulations in the hands of the city authorities, and he moved the omission of the proviso.
 Mr. Hume  agreed with the hon. Member, that if the provision was applied to the coal-owners alone, it would be highly improper; but he wished the regulations to be applied to all vessels frequenting the port of London.
 Mr. Hume  thought, the navigation committee ought to have the power of fixing the time, lest the parties should make use of the time for the purpose of combining for the raising the price of coals.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the motion. These Acts had been introduced without the knowledge of the country, or the knowledge of the House, and without due notice.
 Mr. Pease  complained of the unfair and harsh manner in which hundreds of thousands of ship-owners from the north were treated, by placing them in a position from which all other ship-owners were exempted. It was too much now to call upon the House to strike out the only clause which afforded a protection to the ship-owners. After a certain period they were to be driven out of the river, whether they had succeeded in selling their cargoes or not. The ship-owners in the north had full confidence in the fairness of the Board of Trade, but they had not confidence that the city would, on all occasions, administer those regulations with fairness.
 Mr. Pease  said, the coal-owners of the north did not object to competition on every ground. Till a few years ago coals from Yorkshire, Wales and Scotland, were gradually increasing in quantity, but the reduction in the price of coal from Durham and Northumberland had produced the practical monopoly which the country wished—the cheapest and the best. The coal trade in Durham and Northumberland had not, nevertheless, been a fair paying trade for the last ten years. He spoke feelingly on the question. He did not think the coal-owners of the north had much to do with it. The coals might rise to-morrow a shilling—the Staffordshire coals might then come into the market, and the market would be opened. After having heard all the evidence, he considered the best way would be to take the duty off, and let all parties stand fair.
 Mr. Bell  acknowledged, that it was with extreme surprise, that he had heard the proposition of his noble Friend, who was usually very anxious to do justice to all parties. He heard, with much surprise, the proposition of his noble Friend, because he had always found, that his noble Friend upon former occasions, when he had any matter on hand, showed the greatest disposition to do equal justice to all parties. In this instance he thought he had a fair right to complain that his noble Friend was disposed to treat a large portion of his constituents hardly. The great injustice of repealing the duty on inland coal, and leaving it in force as regards seaborne coal, was so apparent, on general principles, as not, in his opinion, to entitle it to the serious consideration of the Legislature. If, however, his noble Friend persevered in his motion, he hoped it would be dealt with in the way in which it deserved. It was, he conceived, a sufficient answer to the proposition of his noble Friend that, if carried, it would have the effect of giving a bonus to one set of traders over their competitors in the same market, which was contrary to sound policy and fair legislation. It should be borne in mind, in discussing this question, that the inland coal was charged as well as the sea-borne coal, with the 1,000,000 l. 175 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. l. s. d. 176
 Mr. Bell  said, within the last few years the number of colliers in the river allowed to stand had been reduced from 170 to 146, and lately four or five tiers had been removed. The coal-owners of the north had agreed to this, and they ought not to be further fettered. Neither the legislature nor the city had any right to interfere with them in the disposal of their private property; they ought to be suffered to use their own discretion in making regulations beneficial to themselves and to the public.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  considered this a question which should be decided according to the extent of confidence the House had in the navigation committee. He for one should state, that, having been a Member of that committee, and having taken very great pains to have certain regulations carried into effect, but not having been able to succeed, he had no confidence whatever in their being fit persons to make by-laws on so important a question. He had been long convinced, that the way in which the navigation committee exercised their power was a most unwise mode of exercising it, and that it called loudly for redress. He had not confidence enough in the navigation committee to allow them to deal with so large and important a part of the shipping frequenting the port of London. Why were they to make laws for colliers, excluding all other vessels? The tendency of the amendment of the hon. Member for Kilkenny was to drive the colliers into the docks. There was a project for constructing such docks, and no doubt if they should be found useful and convenient the colliers would enter them, but he protested against compelling them.
 Sir Robert Peel  could not agree to the proposition of his noble Friend, as it involved a dangerous principle—viz., that of interfering with places which had natural and physical advantages, in order to bring them down to an equality with those which were less favoured. Every place ought to get the fair advantage of its local position; and to say, that goods brought from one place by sea should be subject to an impost, while those brought by land, from places not having the same facilities were exempted, was most unfair. The county of Essex, for instance, from its proximity to the London market, had great facilities for the disposal of its corn. But, would any one say, that the corn brought from Essex should be subjected to additional duties in order to bring it down to the level of other places more distant and less favoured? He agreed with the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Warburton) that there was a practical monopoly upon the part of the coal-
 177 quà 178
 Sir W. Rae  wished to know whether it were intended to proceed with a bill which made such an immense change in the law at this period of the Session? Here was a bill which had taken four or five years to prepare, and in which there were not less than 145 clauses, and at this period of the Session it could not be expected to pass both Houses. It was intended to throw the blame on the House of Lords of rejecting the bill, and he did not think that was a fair position in which to place that House. He trusted, that it would be withdrawn until the next Session, and then brought fairly before the House. He moved, that it be further considered that day month.
 Sir W. Rae  moved, that the bill be postponed till that day three months.
 Mr. Wallace  could confirm the statement that his hon. Friend, the Member for Falkirk, consulted no one when he moved that the House be counted out.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought, that religious instruction should be provided for prisoners differing in sentiment from the Established Church, where the number might be considered to require it.
 Mr. O'Connell  considered the argument of the hon. Member who had spoken last, as one of the most preposterous ones which he had ever heard in the whole course of his life from a well-educated Gentleman. The hon. Member for Newark had told them, that the principle embodied in this clause was a new principle—[Mr.  Gladstone:
 Lord Stanley  admitted, that this was a question on which it could not be said that there was no difficulty in coming to a decision. If there were in that House, as he supposed there were, many hon. Gentlemen who might have hesitated as to the vote which they ought to give on this motion, he was quite sure, that if they had attached any importance to the observations of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, those observations would have had a tendency to divert them from the support of the proposition which that hon. Member had advocated. He looked, however, to this question, not with reference to the observations of the hon. Member—they scarcely deserved notice—but with reference to its substantial justice and policy. If he thought, that in giving the proposition of support he was doing anything which could place the sects which differed from the Church of England on an equality with her, or if he thought that in supporting that proposition he was placing any, even the smallest, stigma on the Church of England, as a national establishment, no consideration in the world would induce him to support it. But the situation of these unfortunate prisoners was a peculiar situation. They were paced in a position in which they were separated from the spiritual control of those to whom they were accustomed to look up for support and consolation, and to which they would have resorted for advice had they been free. In supporting the proposition of the hon. Member opposite, the committee was not called upon to establish any new principle; for hon. Gentlemen admitted, that in Ireland, and he heard no objection to that principle, it was not only expedient, but also just and necessary, that there should be a Roman Catholic chaplain in every gaol. Were hon. Gentlemen, then, adopting a mischievous innovation when they proposed to introduce it into England in all gaols, where, on an average of a certain number of years, there were such a number of Roman Ca-
 195
 Mr. Langdale  was anxious to do everything in his power to meet the wishes of the noble Lord.
 Mr. Langdale  would consent to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet for withdrawing his proviso for the present.
 Mr. Langdale  moved, by way of amendment, a proviso to the effect, that in cases where the number of prisoners in a gaol not belonging to the Established Church, amounted to fifty, an assistant-chaplain should be appointed.
 Mr. F. Maule  thought the proposition not unreasonable.
 Mr. F. Maule  declared his intention to support the clause proposed by Mr. Lang-
 192
 Lord Ashley  considered himself bound strictly to show to the House, reasons why one order should be taken before another. He had endeavoured to do so as well as he was able, but at the same time he had too much regard for the time and feelings of the House to obtrude upon them, and weary them with a variety of minute statements out of place and at an improper time. If he had, upon that occasion, gone into the whole subject fully, the
 191 usque ad nauseam? Order.
 Lord Ashley  would ask where the noble Lord, (Lord John Russel,) was yesterday, when the Government, of which he was a member, was instrumental in counting out the House? Why had the House been so counted out, within a very few minutes of the period fixed for its reassembling, and when the legitimate number of members would have been forthwith in attendance. By this means, he was again deprived of the opportunity of exposing the most abominable system which had ever disgraced and degraded a civilized nation. The noble Lord opposite and the House knew full well the mode in which this question had been treated. They knew full well how to repeat a phrase which he had used before, and from which he did not shrink; how he had been mocked and deluded. On the 22nd of June last, he had hoped to have an opportunity of making his statement; but the noble Lord had triumphed by the small majority of eight. He had then given a notice three weeks from that period, and had fixed upon a notice-day. Yesterday was the day. The House met by adjournment at 6 o'clock, and no sooner did it meet, than it was proposed that it should be counted, and was counted out. Immediately upon that motion being made, one of the Lords of the Treasury, the hon. Member for Haddington, ran out of the House, and other Members of the Government went into a different lobby. There were other hon. Members present who would bear witness to this statement. He had himself seen the hon. Member for Haddington leave the House, and with him the person who should have last thought of taking such a course. He alluded to the hon. Member for Durham, himself a very large mill-owner, and one of those whom he would have put on his defence. The House was thus counted out before those hon. Members who were listening to the debate in the Lords could have an opportunity of attending. Even as it was, the attendance of members amounted to thirty-seven. He was extremely sorry at being obliged to adopt any extraordinary course to bring on his motion. He should have liked very much to bring it on in a more legitimate way. The noble Lord opposite and the House might think the person who had the honor to introduce this subject to their notice to be himself a very despicable person. But,
 188
 Lord J. Russell  could state nothing about what occurred in the House yesterday, not having been present at the time. He returned to the House a few moments afterwards, with the view of attending the motion of the noble Lord. Nothing would induce him to say, that the noble Lord, in bringing forward his motion, was actuated by any desire to embarrass the Government, or interfere with the other proceedings of the House. On the contrary, he knew the deep interest which the noble Lord took in the factory question, and that in the prosecution of it, he had acted in the most honourable manner. He did think, however, that the noble Lord, in his great anxiety about the question, was apt to overlook the real facts of the case. He had stated to the House, that, one way or another, he was prevented by the Government from making a statement of facts connected with the factory question. Now, the noble Lord must admit, that if he were wrong in postponing the question, he himself was also wrong in not bringing it fully forward when he moved it before the Order of the Day upon Irish Tithes. On the day when the bill stood among the orders of the day, the noble Lord proposed to take it before the Irish Tithe Bill. Surely he had then an opportunity of stating to the House any facts which he thought proper, and no one would have prevented him from doing so. He might also have convinced the House, that his bill ought to have precedence of the Irish Tithe Bill. The House, however, upon the reasons which he adduced, decided against him by a majority of eight, and he now complained of the conduct of that majority. With respect to the interest which the Government, it was said, took in the matter, he must say, that the noble Lord was entirely wrong in supposing, that there was any particular wish or intention on the part of the Government to evade or put off the factory question. If he had understood from the noble Lord before he proposed putting the bill off, that the noble Lord had any particular wish so to do, he (Lord J. Russell) would have considered whether it might not be taken before some other Order of the Day. Neither then, however, nor in the question which the noble Lord put, did he appear to manifest any great anxiety upon the
 190
 Lord J. Russell  agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that they should not agree to a clause of that nature without its having been brought in a distinct shape
 199
 Mr. G. Palmer  opposed the proposition, because, if they gave up one point after another, it would tend to annihilate the interests of the Established Church.
 Mr. Labouchere  could also add his testimony, that there was not the slightest concert upon the part of the Government to put off the noble Lord's motion. He did not think the noble Lord would require him to produce any witnesses, but if he were to appeal to any one, it would perhaps, be to the Speaker, whom he met shortly after the House was over, when his right hon. Friend expressed his regret, in which he concurred, at there being no House, as it would so much retard the progress of public business. The occurrence, in his belief, was only to be attributed to the natural, and perhaps, not inexcusable indisposition of hon. Members to sit for eight or nine hours in the evening after having sat, for four in the day.
 The Speaker  said, the noble Lord's remark was not necessary for the purpose of explanation.
 Mr. Hume  said, that prisons now were conducted on the principle of reformation. If, therefore, reformation was their object, they could not shut up fifty persons dissenting from the principles of the Established Church without affording them some religious advice and instruction. In voting
 193 Great cheering from both sides of the House.
 Mr. Hume  was sent there by his constituents to speak the honest sentiments of his heart, and speak them he would, at every hazard. Personally, he was obliged to the hon. Chairman for his caution, but he was sent there to speak the truth by his constituents, and speak it he would, however obnoxious it might be to the clergy or their supporters. In reply to what had been said by hon. Gentlemen opposite, he would repeat, that the principle which he had laid down, was the only true voluntary principle. The House had cheered, as if they considered his proposition to be clearly monstrous and impracticable; but he had lived for some time in the world, and he had seen other things, deemed equally strange and unlikely to happen, come nevertheless to pass; and he was convinced, old as he was, that he should live to see a great alteration indeed take place in the holding of what was called Church property. If the hon. Gentlemen opposite, acting as they called it in support of the Church, persisted in their old course of oppression and monopoly, he was certain that they would drive public
 194
 Mr. Bernal  (the Chairman) interrupted the hon. Member for Kilkenny, who was entering into subjects not at all connected with the question under debate.
 Mr. Sheil  conceived, that the opinion of the hon. Gentlemen opposite was, that this proposition ought to be granted, provided that the power of appointing these chaplains were accompanied with proper checks. A proposition exactly the same with the present was carried for Ireland when Lord Liverpool was at the head of the Government, when Sir R. Peel was at the head of the Home Department, and when Mr. Goulburn was Secretary to the Lord-lieutenant for Ireland. When the Catholic was out of prison he could go to the priest, but when he was in prison the priest must go to him, else he would be deprived of all opportunity of acting in conformity with
 196
 Mr. R. Steuart  said, that whatever blame he had incurred in this matter, he alone was responsible for it, and that he had not seen the hon. Member for Durham at all upon the occasion referred to. He begged, distinctly, to deny, that he had any previous communication with any single member of the Government upon the subject; and the Under Secretary of
 189
 Mr. Estcourt . This was the introduction of a new principle into the law of England, which, if once admitted, might be attended with the very greatest inconvenience to the interests of the Established Church.
 Mr. Thornely  read an extract from a report which he said he had received from one of the inspectors of prisons, to the following effect:—of the religious professions of 419 persons confined in the borough gaol of Liverpool in August, 1837, there were 216 Protestants, 174 Roman Catholics, 17 Presbyterians, and the rest of other persuasions. He understood, that in Manchester the Roman Catholics bore at least as great a proportion to the whole population as in Liverpool. He could not, therefore, for a moment hesitate to say, that whenever the hon. Member for Knaresborough brought forward, in any shape, a proposition for giving to those 174 Roman Catholics in the gaol of Liverpool, and to the Catholics similarly placed throughout the country, the advantage of religious consolation from their own ministers, he should have great pleasure in voting with him.
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  could not immediately concur in the principle laid down in the motion. It was one of great importance, not recognised in any legislative enactment, and, he believed, unheard-of in England, though it had been acted upon in Ireland. It was too important to be established in this way, for it must be extended to all workhouses as well as to prisons. Sufficient facilities, he believed, were already given to clergymen of the various denominations to obtain access to the prisoners who coincided with them, for the purpose of religious instruction.
 Sir C. Knightley  remarked, that if the hon. Gentleman's principles were acted upon in its full extent, there might be as many clergymen in a gaol as there were prisoners.
 Sir R. Peel  thought it was rather unfortunate that it had not been more distinctly understood that this subject would have been brought under their consideration that day. After the conflicting opinions, too, which they had heard delivered, he thought it would be better if the hon. Gentleman, without making any concessions to the principle, would consent to withdraw the clause upon the understanding that he would bring it forward upon the third reading of the bill. The noble Lord the Secretary of State, who had access to every information on the subject, had been present during a very short period of the discussion, not expecting, perhaps, that so important a subject would have been brought under consideration. Without, therefore, expressing any decided opinion at present, he thought it would be better to reserve it for more serious and deliberate consideration. Even supposing that he entirely coincided in the principle of the hon. Gentleman's clause, he wished to show him that, as it stood at present, it would not answer his purpose. He would first ask him if he meant, that it should be imperative upon the magistrates to appoint chaplains? The words were "that it shall be lawful," &c. Now, according to the construction of some, those words meant that it should be imperative on the magistrates, while others contended that they conferred a discretionary power. It was very important that the hon. Gentleman should determine that point. The hon. Gentleman also made the appointment of chaplains determinable by the circumstance of there having been on the three previous years an average of fifty prisoners. Now, if during one year there happened to be sixty prisoners in the gaol, not Members of the establishment, but professing one faith, he might be disposed to contend for the necessity of providing them with a chaplain. But according to the clause of the hon. Member, if that year happened to be one of the three preceding years, and that upon those three years there was not an average of fifty, there would have been no power to provide a chaplain for the single year during which there were sixty prisoners. It did not depend, therefore, on the number of
 197 veto 198
 Mr. F. Maule  entreated the indulgence of the House for a few minutes, while he endeavoured to defend himself against the charge which had been brought against him by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. He did not think the House would accuse him of allowing party motives to forget the courtesy which was due either to the House or the right hon. Gentleman. There was a length to which courtesy should go, but it ought not to be permitted to triumph over principle. When the bill was in the House a previous Session, as well as at every stage of it since, he stated his objection to the clause. He objected to giving an increased jurisdiction to the justices of the peace, when they had in Scotland as the judge of the inferior court, the sheriff depute, a person brought up to and learned in the law, and always ready to adjudicate. He also told the right hon. Gentleman, that he would take every opportunity of resisting the bill in the House unless he would consent to withdraw or alter the clause, in which case he stated his readiness to support the bill. The right hon. Gentleman was, therefore, wrong in stating, that in throwing out the bill, he had been influenced by party motives, or had been guilty of any want of courtesy towards the right hon. Gentleman himself.
 Mr. Harvey  said, it almost seemed from the tone taken by the Attorney-general as if that House had little to do with the bill in the way of deliberation, and must be content to take it as it stood, or not at all. For his part, he confessed, he was not so unfavourable to the bill as the hon. Member for Bridport. It was obviously not a perfect measure; but it made several most important improvements on the present law. If the bill should pass, the fraudulent debtor would no longer have it in his power to set his creditors at defiance, and live in a state of criminal affluence within the walls of a prison, but would be brought before a competent court, and compelled to surrender whatever property he possessed. On the other hand, the creditor would not be allowed, as at present, to keep the debtor in prison for an interminable period, in the indulgence of a spirit of censurable vindictiveness. They were not now, in his opinion, in a condition to discuss the whole law of debtor and creditor, and therefore, although he thought that many useful improvements might be made in it, he was disposed to acquiesce in this bill.
 Mr. Warburton  thought it was hardly worth while to make any amendments on such a miserable abortion of a bill as this. Letthe bill go forth with all its imperfections, and let the responsibility rest with
 201
 Mr. Freshfield  objected to the amendment, as causing an inconvenient alteration in the existing law. In the Insolvent Debtors' Court, there were at the present moment between 100,000 and
 202
 Mr. Hume  wished, that insolvents should be put on the same footing as bankrupts. It was very hard to allow a judgment to hang over an insolvent which would prevent him from ever re-establishing himself in business.
 Mr. Sheppard  moved the addition of the words "within the space of three years after the date of the aforesaid discharge," in line 40, in order that the judgment might not take effect beyond that term.
 The Attorney-general  resisted the amendment, as making a very important alteration in the system that now prevailed. That part of the system to which it related, if altered at all, ought to be wholly re-modelled.
 The Attorney-general  was only anxious not to hazard, by too many amendments, at this late period of the Session, the passing of a measure which all must look upon as extremely beneficial.
 Sir W. Rae  said, he wished to say a few words upon the subject of the Small Debts (Scotland) Bill. He thought he had reason to complain of the conduct of the Under Secretary of State in making it a party question, and summoning the Government Members for the purpose of throwing it out. He had also to complain of a want of courtesy towards himself. He certainly did hope that such means would not have been adopted to throw out upon its third reading a bill which had been brought in and passed through a Committee of the House of Lords, and which would have been of such great benefit to Scotland. The clause for raising
 200
 Mr. Pryme  objected to the bill, that it proposed a tax upon coals; and he had always thought, that improvements in buildings—whether Ramsgate Pier or Royal Exchange—ought not to be carried into effect by a tax levied on one of the necessaries of life. He therefore moved, that this bill be read a third time that day six months.
 Mr. Wolverly Attwood  seconded the amendment. It appeared to him, that in passing this bill, the House would, so far as the coal duty which the bill imposed was concerned, be acting in a manner entirely inconsistent with the provisions of another measure which was before the House—the Coal Trade Bill. The Coal Trade Bill was founded on the recommendation of a committee expressly appointed to consider the subject; and that bill, which was a public measure, provided that the duties on coals should be renewed for seven years, and should then be subject to the revision of the House. By the present bill, it was proposed to continue the coal duties for twenty years. Upon principle, too, he objected entirely to the providing by a coal duty for the improvement of the streets in the city of London; for that was the object, and not the re-building of the Royal Exchange, to which the sums to be raised by the tax on coals was to be applied. It was the most objectionable and oppressive tax which could be levied. It had been said, that the amount was so trifling, that the pressure upon the poor was not felt; but even the direct amount paid by the poor man yearly would be equivalent to the cost of his supply of fuel for a week or a fortnight; and indirectly, the cost of every article he consumed, his beer, his bread, his clothes, was augmented. The principle recognised was, that in the case of a city, distant as London was from the coal district, everything should be done to reduce the price of fuel, instead of increasing the cost, by taxes of this nature. The breweries, the distilleries, all the trades
 224
 Mr. Irvine  had received a letter from a most respectable gentleman residing in the county of Antrim, assuring him, that no such manifestation as that to which the noble Lord had adverted had taken place in that county, and he thought it right to mention the fact, in order to show the House, that the proceedings of which the noble Lord had complained were not so universal or general as he seemed to believe.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished to know from whence the letter to which the hon. Member alluded was dated? [Mr.  Irvine:
 Captain Jones  said, that the noble Lord was not the only Member of that House who entertained the belief, that such displays had taken place, but it was no more than was due to the clergy of Ireland to state, that so far from encouraging the exhibition of hoisting flags on the day in question, they did all in their power to prevent it.
 Lord Stanley  said, that there was a point on which he was desirous of information. If he understood the noble Lord rightly, he proposed to remit the 640,000 l. 240
 Mr. O'Connell  said, they were all agreed as to the desirableness of correcting frauds, and the only question was, the extent to which they should go in endeavouring to do so. It would undoubtedly be a fraud if the tithe-owner were allowed to receive one-fifth more than he had a right to, and it was not too much to ask for the power of appeal in cases of existing imposition, when the tithe-owner was receiving 20 per cent. more than he ought properly to receive. Surely this was fair, and when a proposition was made for what hon. Members contemplated as a final and perpetual settlement of the question, they should not leave in the bill that which would be the cause of future collision and contests. When the tithes were sprinkled with blood as had been the case at Rathcormac and elsewhere, it was not to be wondered at if re-action should take place. Hon. Members should learn experience from the past, and endeavour as much as possible to remove all cause of complaint. If by any of the existing compositions the tithe-owner received upwards of 20 per cent. more than he ought to receive, the composition must have been a fraudulent one.
 Lord Stanley  contended that the clauses if agreed to would allow the compositions to be opened if it were alleged that they exceeded even by the amount of a single halfpenny. It would be too hard thus to open compositions which had been entered into nearly twenty years ago. Legal inquiries would be instituted, barristers sent down, and the clergyman would be saddled with all the expenses of an inquiry
 247
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the right hon. Gentleman could not have read the charge of Justice Foster, who did not use the argument of there being no enclosure. The speech of Judge Foster, which was a long and rambling one, made no allusion to an enclosure. He had done that learned personage injustice, forsooth. A man who had been twenty-five years a barrister without a brief, and was then by a hop, step, and jump, transferred to the bench. With respect to the question of enclosure, there was a Gentleman in the House who had seen the spot, and could testify to the enclosure. He was glad that the question had been raised, as it
 249
 Mr. O'Connell  admitted, that he was not so fortunate a lawyer as the right hon. Gentleman. With respect to the opinion which he gave in the transaction at Rathcormac, it was given after he had been consulted upon the subject professionally, and if those who consulted him thought fit to publish the opinion which he gave, he could not prevent them. By that opinion, however, he would still stand. From the statement made to him when he was consulted upon the point, it appeared that a more foul and horrible murder had never been committed. It was a murder most base and horrible. From the statement made to him it appeared that the field was enclosed. [Sir  E. Sugden 248
 Lord J. Russell  would not object to the course suggested of going into Committee, proposing the resolution, and taking the subject into consideration at a future period.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that they were not to be exempted. With respect to what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite, all he could say was, that in many cases, the landlord would be liable to the repayment of the instalments, and that in many others, the advances, for instance, to lay impropriators were not made recoverable. He should be very glad to find, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were in a condition to refund the 100,000 l.
 Lord J. Russell , having proposed the resolution, which was agreed to, and the House having resumed, moved, that the House should go into Committee on the Tithes (Ireland) Bill, for the purpose of considering the remaining clauses of the Bill. House in Committee.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that if the hon. Member persisted in objecting to the motion upon that ground, he might, perhaps, be strictly justified; but he thought, that the notice which he (Lord J. Russell) had given of the intention of Government on this subject had, for all useful purposes, been sufficient.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the House would doubtless expect, that he should make some communication with respect to the deliberations of the Government in consequence of the debate that took place in the House the last time the tithe bill for Ireland was debated. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dublin having made a proposition to the House with respect to the arrears of tithe, and his noble Friend the Member for North Lancashire having supported a proposition, not the same, but of a similar kind, he then stated to the House, that there were in his opinion three objections to the course proposed to be pursued; that was to say, that there were three objections to a course which required a sacrifice of public money in order to satisfy the owners of tithes in Ireland as to part of the bill which they proposed to pass this year upon the subject of the future arrangement of tithe composition in Ireland. He stated, first, that no sums had been stated as the amount which was ascertained to be due, or was likely to satisfy the claims due. He stated, in the second place, that on the hon. and learned Member for Dublin's own showing, it was not likely, that this would be considered by the great body of the Roman Catholics of Ireland as a final and satisfactory settlement of the question relating to the
 230 231 l. 232 l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l., 233 l. 234 l. l.
 Mr. A. White  denied, that there was any monopoly in the coal trade: he thought the making a duty on coals for such a purpose unjust in principle, and that it would be far more creditable to the merchants of London it they would follow the example of the merchants of Liverpool, and erect the Royal Exchange and its approaches at their own expense.
 *
 Mr. Harvey  said, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, did not seem to understand what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as it was clear, from what the right hon. Gentleman had said, he had no wish, that any opinion should be pronounced at the present time on the Government proposition. It was, indeed, impossible, that the right hon. Gentleman could expect such a thing, and, therefore, what he said was, that when the resolution was brought in, the Government would allow that House and the country sufficient time to reflect upon it. Without having before them the resolution and the machinery by which it was to be carried into effect, it was impossible, that they could take the matter into consideration; but as regarded the proposition itself, all he could say was, that this country would be as much astonished at it as the Government themselves were, when they first heard of it on Friday night. The right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, had dexterously led the Government into this plan, but now he as dexterously avoided pledging himself to it. He liked his own plan, but not that of the Government, and he predicted, that the only advantage which the Government would derive from the course which they had taken, would be an increase of unpopularity.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  did not object to the clauses as going too far, but of not going far enough. That abuses had taken place under Mr. Goulburn's Act he needed no further proof than the petition he had had
 244 l. l.
 Mr. E. B. Roche  knew the haggard, and could state distinctly, that it was as well inclosed as any other haggard in Ireland. He saw it before and after the transaction, but was not there at the time when the murder took place. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin in characterizing it as a most foul murder.
 Mr. Barnard , seeing that the city of London had behaved so generously, thought that the sum provided for by the present bill ought to be granted.
 Mr. Lucas  thought, that this case, if established went wholly to support the view of his right hon. Friend, (Mr. Lefroy). As even in a case where the parishioners had a right of appeal to the law they waived that right and preferred arbitration.
 Mr. Lucas , on the part of his side of the House, must disclaim the imputation which the noble Lord had thrown out against them. He denied, that they were desirous of encouraging resistance to the payment of tithes, and, for his own part, he would not concur in any plan the object of which was not to do justice to all parties. With respect to the noble Lord's plan, he was not to be considered as pledged in any way to it, and should he have objections to it, he should claim his right of urging them hereafter.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said, that the original resolution, with respect to compensation, was brought forward for the relief of the clergy of Ireland exclusively, and as he had some difficulty as the extending
 239
 Sir E. Sugden , as allusion had been made to the affair of Rathcormac, would take the liberty of saying a few words on the subject. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had published it to the world as his opinion, that the homicides which had taken place at Rathcormac were murders. Now, he would as a lawyer, state his opinion on the subject. He would state to the House that the opinion published by the hon. and learned Gentleman was not founded in law, and the publication of that opinion had been productive of great mischief in Ireland.
 Sir E. Sugden  was sorry this question had arisen, but by whom was it raised? By the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, who could not regret more than he (Sir E. Sugden) what had taken place at Rathcormac. The hon. and learned Gentleman might turn round and cry "Oh," but he did not care for the hon. and learned Gentleman's acting. It would have no effect but to lessen the respect which he might otherwise feel for him. The hon. and learned Gentleman had given his opinion, and it was published, with his name attached to it. On what ground did the grand jury ignore the bill? It was an easy matter for an hon. Member in his place in that House to detract from the purity of a judge, and the integrity of a jury; but such a proceeding would reflect little credit on him who did so. The hon. and learned Gentleman said there was an enclosure. This he denied. There was no enclosure; but, on the contrary, there was fair access. There was an open way which was blocked up from the inside by carts and other obstructions, which it was quite lawful to remove. Again, he would insist that, in point of law, there had been no murder.
 Mr. Dunbar  said, that the occurrence which took place in Belfast, so far from being deserving of the name of a riot,
 237
 Mr. Goulburn  urged upon the Committee the inconvenience and danger of disturbing engagements which existed under an act of the Legislature, and so far shaking the public confidence in the faith of an Act of Parliament, Nothing could be more dangerous than to introduce such a principle. With respect to
 243
 Mr. Labouchere  felt it his duty to say a few words, because he thought the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, had rather mis-stated the case. The hon. Gentleman had stated, that the bill which he (Mr. Labouchere) had introduced, imposed a duty upon coals for seven years; and that then it contemplated the cessation of those duties after those seven years; whereas the bill before the House, proposed to continue those duties for a much longer period. He had the pleasure of meeting the hon. Gentleman in the committee, upon whose recommendation the bill was introduced; and the hon. Gentleman must be aware, that the Coal Trade Bill, so far from imposing duties for any fixed period, only commuted the duties which already existed, and which must exist for a much longer period. The bill provided, that for the next seven years, a much more simple machinery should be applied to the collection of these duties, and one more conducive to the public advantage. That was the sole and simple object of the bill; and it was optional with Parliament, at the end of those seven years, to consider that commutation, and renew it if it were found to work well. He thought it necessary to say so much, lest the House should be led away by the statements of the hon. Gentleman. He would now address himself to the bill before the house; and he so far agreed with the hon. Member, that he thought it extremely desirable those duties should cease altogether. He should be very glad to see the time when the 8 d. d. 225
 Mr. Warburton  agreed with his hon. Friend as to the propriety of the merchants of London raising a fund for the building. Those who used it ought to pay for it.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that what his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, wished was, that the resolution should be proposed without pronouncing any opinion upon it at present. This could be done if the Chairman were, as soon as it had been proposed, to report progress, and ask leave to sit again to-morrow. So far from there being unanimity of feeling on the part of the House with respect to this proposition, he believed, there were many hon. Members on both sides who strongly objected to it. Even the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, gave it only a qualified assent, for, though he concurred in the principle involved in it, he kept himself wholly unfettered as regarded the details. Such being the state of the case, he must express it as his opinion, that the course pursued by his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, was a proper one.
 The Speaker  said, the object of the hon. Member for Kilkenny appeared to be to take a burthen from one fund and to lay it upon another; he (the Speaker) doubted if such an object could be effected upon the third reading of the bill.
 Mr. Hume  thought it was quite competent for the House to pass the bill for the purpose of making the improvement alluded to in the city of London, without any additional tax being made upon coals. He objected to the poor man being taxed for any such purpose. And, as a proof of the validity of that objection, he had only to refer to what took place in 1830, when a security was given upon the tax on coals, in order to enable the parties to proceed with the erection of London Bridge. By the bill to enable the erection of that great undertaking, a tax of 8 d. l., l. d. l., 226 d.
 Mr. Hume  said, it ought not to be him, but the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who should stand forward to protect the public purse; but when he saw that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, instead of interfering, actually connived at the contemplated act of robbery, he was bound to stand forward. He was ready to make any sacrifice which might fairly be expected to lead to permanent peace in Ireland; but he was so convinced that the peace which would be purchased by this grant would
 235
 Mr. Hume  put it to the noble Lord and the House, whether the House of Commons had ever entered upon a vote of a million of public money without previous notice given?
 Mr. Hume  was very much surprised at the opposition given to the proposal of the noble Lord, because as the right hon. Gentleman opposite must recollect, on the introduction of Mr. Goulburn's Bill the grounds advanced for its adoption were—that there must be a revision every fifteen years.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know if it were intended to excuse those landlords who were occupiers from the repayment of the advances which had been made to them?
 Sir M. Wood  did not think it necessary to detain the House for a moment in reply to the unjust attacks which had been made upon the authors of the bill. The attack of the hon. Member for Greenwich was at least ungracious, as the city, in the bill then on the table of the House, had given up 5,000 l.
 Sir M. Wood  moved the third reading of the Royal Exchange Bill.
 Mr. Sheil  said, that the facts contained in the petition mentioned by his hon. friend (Mr. Roche,) were, that the Bishop of Cloyne on having the matter referred to him awarded the Archdeacon 1,450 l. l. l., l. l., 245
 Mr. Lefroy  rose to propose the omission of clauses from 9 to 19, and to substitute for them one clause which he had prepared. These clauses proposed to open all compositions. He thought that any attempt to open these compositions would lead to great inconvenience and injustice. If they opened the compositions under Goulburn's Act they must go back to a period so remote as 1814. That act was passed in 1821, and the compositions were founded upon the average of the preceding seven years. Now if they re-opened these compositions they would be obliged to take the average over again, beginning at 1814. Now the Goulburn Act gave the right of appeal under proper restrictions, and wherever there had been ground of objection appeals had been made. Under the Stanley
 241
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that the apprehensions of the right hon. Gentleman were exaggerated. If the alteration proposed interfered with agreements made under the right hon. Gentleman's Act, he should support them with very great reluctance; but as they only contemplated revision in cases where compositions had been unfairly effected, he could not see that their adoption would impose any hardship on the clergyman. The right hon. Gentleman should recollect that the application for revision was not to come from the majority of numbers in the parish, but from the owners of the greater value; and this being the case, he did not think there need be any apprehension that the application would be made on unjust or trivial grounds.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that although the Government had considered the plan of his right hon. Friend, the Member for Tamworth, they had not
 238
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had supported the bill in Committee, and was still prepared to support it. He did so because the bill did not impose the coal duty for the erection of an Exchange, but to make the approaches thereto. If the former had been the case there might have been some ground for the opposition. To the building of the Exchange, the city itself was to contribute. What were the purposes for which this coal tax was appropriated? Were they purposes in which the general trade and convenience of the community
 227
 Sir B. Hall *
 Sir E. Codrington , as one of the committee, would give his support to the bill. At the same time he must say, that if any other tax could be found he should prefer it. Money for similar purposes had been raised in former years by lotteries.
 Mr. Ward , as they seemed to be diverging from the real question before them, felt it his duty to recal their attention to the object which his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, had in view. For his own part he did not believe, that the proposition of the noble Lord would lead to an adjustment of this question, and he must add, that he concurred with his hon. Friend in thinking, that it would prove nothing better than a delusion on the people of that country. It was true, that the Government plan was less objectionable than the plan of the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth, but still, when there was a million of money to be dealt with, he did not think they would be justified in departing from the rules of the House. They were not voting upon an abstract principle, but the application of the public money for church purposes; and as the Government had inverted the principle with which they set out, it was only right, that proper time should be given for the consideration of this new proposition. He hoped his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny would persist in his motion, and if he did he should have his support.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, it had been contended that the object of the bill was the imposition of a tax for the erection of a Royal Exchange. Such was not the case. The Royal Exchange was not to be erected with the funds arising from the coal duty continued by this bill. The object of the bill was, to make approaches to the Royal Exchange. It had been said, that the merchants of the city of London ought to be as willing to contribute to the formation of a building for their accommodation as the merchants of Bristol or of Liverpool. He did not think the London merchants would dissent from that; but he did not suppose they would pay for making new streets. He did not wish to depreciate the importance of lowering the price of coals; but he thought it would be much better to effect that desirable object by doing away with the monopoly which added forty per cent. to the price of the articles, than to stop this useful project.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that at this late period of the Session he was not disposed to throw any impediment in the way of this measure on a point of form. At the same time, whilst he should consent to the motion of the noble Lord for going into Committee, he begged it to be understood, that he did not pledge himself to the contemplated arrangement upon the first statement of the noble Lord. The hon. Member for Kilkenny had done an injustice both to the noble Lord and to himself, when the hon. Member said, that the Government had adopted his (Sir R. Peel's) proposition. Whether the noble Lord's proposition was better or worse than his, he would not pretend to say, but it was certainly not his proposition. His (Sir R. Peel's) proposition as he stated it the other day, was to the following effect, namely:—there was about 307,000 l. l., l. 236 l. l.,
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the hon. Gentleman had just awoke from a dream of fifteen years, and forgot entirely what had occurred in the interval. Mr. Goulburn's Act certainly provided for a revision at the end of twenty-one years, but the answer to that was, that since the time of its passing another act had been passed by the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, and by that the compositions were made permanent. It appeared to him that the case of Archdeacon Ryder should Le put entirely out of consideration; from reading the petition he did not clearly understand the case, and certainly before any inference unfavourable to that clergyman was drawn, the allegation should be substantiated by proof. He did not understand how Archdeacon Ryder contrived to get 1,840 l. Hume 246
 Sir R. Peel  said, that there was another subject of misapplication on which the noble Lord ought to obtain information. He would not ask any question at present relative to it, but merely say to the noble Lord, that he ought to obtain some information as to the 100,000 l.
 Viscount Morpeth  would not deny, that there was some force in the arguments of the right hon. and learned Gentleman with respect to the inconvenience of opening compositions made at a period far back. These arguments had been submitted to the Committee in former sessions and notwithstanding the Committee felt, that it would be desirable to continue the power to re-open these compositions, he admitted, that there would be considerable inconvenience and anomaly in opening cases decided so long ago, and in which a power of appeal had been given. But then the anomaly did not affect any side of the question in particular. However, there were, he believed, several cases of great hardship, and with a view of making a permanent and enduring settlement of
 242 Dublin Gazette. bona fide,
 The Chancellor of Exchequer  moved the third reading of the Glass Duties Bill.
 Mr. Aglionby  moved an amendment to the effect that costs should be given in those cases only in which the persons objected to had previously been on the registry of voters.
 Mr. Praed  was inclined to support the amendment, but thought it would be advisable to fine the frivolous objector 10 s.,
 The Attorney General  expressed his doubts of the expediency of adopting either of the suggestions that had been made, but thought the subject well worthy of consideration.
 The Attorney General  objected to the clauses. He felt as strongly as any one the necessity of some court of appeal from the decision of the revising barristers, for the purpose of attaining uniformity, but it was clear, that this would not be the proper court of appeal. He had the most sincere reverence for the judges of our courts at Westminster, but he should be most reluctant to refer to them questions of a purely political nature. It was essential that the administration of justice in Westminster-hall should remain without suspicion; but it would be impossible to secure even the most upright of judges from some suspicion in the minds of one party or another if he were to be called
 290
 Mr. Praed  observed, that a great number of the questions at present decided by the courts of laws at Westminster were of a political character, yet the decisions of the judges in such cases were not regarded with suspicion. A great many new questions of a political character had been
 291
 Lord John Russell  said, he thought it better that an inquiry such as that proposed by the hon. Member for Kilkenny should be instituted at the commencement of the next Session.
 Lord John Russell  intended to introduce a measure by which the militia force would be rendered more effective.
 Lord John Russell  had consulted the Duke of Wellington upon this point, and he found that the opinion of the noble Duke differed very much from that of the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 Lord John
 284  moved the appointment of the Committee on Militia Estimates.
 Colonel Sibthorp  expressed his surprise that such a bill as this should have emanated from a ministry professing economy. The bill proposed to create three commissioners, one with a salary of 2,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Divett  said, that it was impossible if a war broke out, that a militia staff could be of any use whatever.
 Sir E. Sugden  was inclined to support the clauses. The questions which would come before the judges would not be political questions, but essentially questions of property, which would very fitly come before the superior courts of law. He did not see, that the additional weight of business would materially inconvenience the judges, nor did he see, that their decisions would for a moment be regarded with suspicion. He was not himself aware of any pressure of business on the courts at Westminster which could be regarded as other than a merely temporary pressure. If the judges were liable to be stigmatised for an incidental decision which might happen to be unpopular, how hard would be the case of those who should be appointed for the sole purpose of deciding appeals in those cases. The opinions of the latter would be in no degree respected, and they would be liable to be regarded as mere political partisans. If the hon. Gentleman pressed the clauses to a division, he should vote with him, but he should suggest to him to postpone them to a future state of the bill, when they might be more advantageously discussed.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that if the hon. Member wanted to take the committee out of the hands of Government, he had better move for a select committee.
 Colonel Salwey  said, that the militia was a most useful and constitutional force, and he regretted, that the noble Lord had taken the advice of the Duke of Wellington and reduced it. If the noble Lord would take the advice of his political friends they would be much better pleased.
 Mr. Warburton  had no respect for the decisions of judges on political questions, particularly when he recollected how the rights and properties of corporations had been gradually undermined by decisions of the judges of the land. He thought the rights of the people and the privileges of the House would be greatly endangered by making the judges a court of appeal on questions of this kind.
 Dr. Nicholl  proposed the insertion of clauses providing that the revising barristers shall be enabled to reserve cases for the opinion of the superior courts of common law, which cases shall be heard in the vacation after the Michaelmas term next ensuing; that, in the mean time, the revising barrister shall give his own opinion on the case, and shall send that opinion to one of the superior courts at Westminster, which shall hear counsel on the case, and that the decision of such court shall be final.
 Dr. Nicholl  withdrew his clauses.
 Mr. Hume  thought it would be better not to press the measure during the present Session.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that the committee have power to send for persons, papers, and records. He was desirous, as the committee was appointed, to have the subject fully investigated.
 Mr. Hume  objected. He did not see that any benefit could result from its labours, and he did not believe, that in time of war the militia staff would be anything but useless.
 Mr. Hawkes  then moved the insertion of the following clause: "And be it further enacted, that no maker or makers of glass shall make of common bottle metal any bottle or bottles smaller, or of less size or content, than what is commonly deemed or reputed an half-pint bottle; and if any maker or makers of glass shall make of common bottle metal, any bottle or bottles smaller, or of less size or content than aforesaid, the maker or makers of glass so offending shall, for every such
 287
 Mr. Hodges  hoped, that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) would take for the basis of any measure affecting the militia, a rule, that whenever they were assembled at any time they should be subject to martial law.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was true that, for some time, the attention of the Government had been called to the invention of Mr. Rutledge, and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was satisfied, that if the experiment proved successful the result would be most important to the trade of this country and to the revenue. When he recollected the amount of public revenue that was derived from spirits, he felt it was his duty to approach such a subject with the greatest caution. He had availed himself of the services of some eminent men of science to consider this subject. Dr. Birkbeck entered into the fullest details, and he was, at the present time, of opinion, that the instrument would answer all the purposes for which it was intended. Two other eminent men, Professors Lubbock and Brande, had also expressed a favourable opinion, but they had not given the subject quite so much of their attention as Dr. Birkbeck. Three experiments had been tried in connexion with the Board of Excise, but no experiment testing the amount used as compared with the total amount of spirits produced had as yet been brought to a final result. He could only add, that he was taking the best means of bringing the matter to a final result, and if it succeeded no man would be more gratified than himself at such success.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that, upon a review of the whole subject, and after consulting the parties interested in it out of door, who were, of course, much divided upon it, he was inclined to think, that a case had not been made out for the insertion of this restriction, and he should maintain the bill as it stood.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the second reading of the Post-office Bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  would not weary the House by replying to the general argument of the hon. and gallant Officer, because they were those which he used on every occasion he spoke, always taking care to vituperate her Majesty's Ministers. He would come at once to the bill itself. It would, no doubt, be in the recollection of the House, that this bill was the result of the reports of no less than three separate commissions of inquiry. The principle it proposed to adopt was recommended by the commission of which Lord Wallace was at the head. The commission on which the noble Lord the Member for Westmorland (Lord Lowther) presided, had also recommended the adoption of the principle contained in this very measure. Now, he presumed he might say, that the noble Lord (Lord Lowther), in consequence of the political opinions he entertained, was a person who would not be very desirous or anxious to place patronage unnecessarily in the hands of the present Government. His best supporter, on the present occasion, was the noble
 292
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that this bill related merely to forty-one Highland schools and he had no objection to a clause to make those forty-one schools subject to any general measure that might be subsequently adopted.
 Mr. Gillon  moved, that the report be received that day three months.
 Mr. Gillon  said, he would withdraw all opposition if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would undertake that the money should be under the control of the treasury, instead of being placed at the disposal of the Established Church of Scotland.
 Sir C. B. Vere  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman with respect to an invention of a gentleman of
 286
 Mr. Aglionby  moved, that the Report on the Recovery of Tenements Bill should be further considered.
 Mr. Aglionby  said, that it certainly was his intention to press the bill forward with all the energy he was possessed of, as it had already been postponed for three different Sessions in consequence of one of the most uncalled-for oppositions, that was ever heard of.
 Sir E. Wilmot  thought the evils anticipated by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) had been grossly exaggerated. He would be the last man in the empire, to give the magistrates a power which they ought not to have. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that magistrates ought not to be called on to decide on intricate points of law, where tenants in bail and tenants in fee and settlements were in volved. But they were to be called on to decide on merely trivial matters. The country, so far as he was aware, was almost unanimous in thinking this a fair bill.
 Mr. Aglionby  congratulated himself on the speech of the right hon. Member for Ripon, for had he spoken at an earlier period, he (Mr. Aglionby) might not have been able to control his remarks on the misrepresentations which the right hon. Member had made of this bill, as well as on the tone, manner, and expressions used towards himself as a public individual. He was willing to throw himself upon the country and be tried by it, whether he was not as little likely to introduce any law savouring of Turkey, as the right hon. Member himself. He admitted the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that the present was not the same bill that had been three times postponed; but why was it not so? Because the Select Committee to which the bill had been referred, had altered it. The bill in the present shape was not so favourable to the poor as when it was originally introduced, because under it the magistrates were made judicial instead of ministerial. He felt bound to deny the statements of the right hon. Member, that he had acted unjustly towards the poor man, his object was to protect him against the oppression of the
 297
 The Attorney General  was glad to find that this measure had met with such general approbation from all sides of the House, and he admitted that the present state of the law on this subject was a disgrace to the judicature of the country. Although he concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet opposite he still was disposed to think that it was better to proceed gradually than to risk anything by effecting too great a change in the first instance. He approved of the limit as to the amount of the rent fixed by the first clause, but he had no hesitation in saying that if the measure should be found to work well he would have no objection whatever to extend the jurisdiction at some future period to 20 l.
 Mr. Pryme  contended, that the whole course of English Legislation for centuries had been to establish cheap tribunals, where the amount in dispute was small; but where the sums were larger, they were submitted to a more expensive and august tribunal. This had been the course of legislation from the days of Alfred down to the present time. So much for ancient law and ancient customs, of which the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) was at all times the powerful advocate. Did the right hon. and learned Gentleman mean to say, whether the amount in dispute was 5 s s, l. s. l. l.
 The Attorney General  said, in answer to the question of the hon. Member, no doubt a case of this sort might arise, A landlord might die, and the tenant might question the son's right as to his legitimacy, but in 999 cases out of every 1,000, the question would be merely one of common tenancy. He certainly was not wedded to fixing the amount at 10 l. l. s. l. l.
 The Attorney General  said, that he did not feel the weight of the right hon. Gentleman's objection, as the mistake to which he alluded was merely technical, and could he easily remedied.
 Mr. Lefevre  explained, that where tithe-owners had been more indulgently rated hitherto, this bill would not produce any result of which they need be afraid.
 The Attorney General  said, that it was absolutely necessary that a measure of this kind should pass before the Tithe Commutation Act came into compulsory operation, but if the right hon. Gentleman would frame a clause protecting the individual cases to which he had alluded, he (the Attorney General) would support it.
 Mr. Aglionby  observed, that it was said that in many parts of England, the farmers had been living upon their capital, and that the yeomanry were gradually disappearing; but whether that was the case or not, there would be great difficulty in ascertaining the rate of profits of farmers; because, in many parts of this country, farmers did not keep books. As to the Tithe Commutation Act, the general feeling in the north and west of England, was not that the landowners received any great benefit from that act.
 Mr. Hawes  was prepared to support the bill as it stood. At the same time he should like to know whether the House would go with him in raising the amount to 20 l. l.
 Mr. Hindley  would suggest to the hon. Baronet whether it was fit in the present state of Australia to continue till 1841, as this bill proposed to do, the powers which certain individuals—the commissioners—already had. He also thought the aborigines ought to be protected, and that a clause should be introduced by which a certain portion of land should be appropriated to native inhabitants. He threw out these suggestions to the hon. Baronet, and he hoped this bill would be so framed in Committee as to meet the cases to which he had adverted.
 Mr. Shaw Lefevre  said, that as doubts had arisen as to the purpose of the bill, he would move as an amendment, the insertion of the words "declare and enact" in each clause.
 Colonel Sibthorp  objected to going into Committee at so late an hour. He moved, that the House do now adjourn.
 Colonel Wood  thought, the shortest way would be, to introduce a clause to exempt all future rent-charges from poor-rates; and at the same time make no additions to the tithe compositions for the rate. That would, he thought, settle the question of rating profits.
 Mr. C. Wood  contended that it would be great injustice to delay the passing of a measure so imperatively called for, and so much affecting the interests of all parties.
 Mr. C. Wood  said, that great injustice would be done if this measure were not passed.
 Mr. Harvey  entirely concurred in all that had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Tamworth. The amount of the rent was in truth wholly immaterial,
 300 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. E. Buller  considered a measure of this kind necessary; but he thought, that they were dealing with too much haste with the important question of the liability of property.
 Sir E. B. Sugden  said that, according to his own argument, the hon. Member for Southwark ought to vote with him. The hon. Member for Southwark contended that no difference should be made between the rich and the poor, and it was because this bill would establish such a difference that he (Sir E. Sugden) objected to it. The rights of the poor would be committed under this measure to the decision of an inferior tribunal, and as this was an arrangement to which the rich would not submit, he felt it to be his duty to oppose it.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, that such being the case, he felt bound to move, that the bill should be re-committed that day three months. He was sure, if the House wished to keep well with the country, it would not pass the bill, as it gave all the advantage to the rich and none to the poor. That might do very well in Turkey; but it would not do in a civilized country. According to the wording of the bill before the House, the very nicest points of law would be submitted to the consideration of two justices—men, who of necessity, were almost unacquainted with the laws of property. The very first use which would be made of the bill, would be the oppression of the poor, who were now in the enjoyment of wastes or manors. No doubt a great number of poor persons would be immediately turned out of such enjoyment, as, with the assistance of two justices, that might be done, at an expense of from 3 s. s. 296
 Sir E. Sugden  wished to know whether it were the intention of the hon. and learned Member to press the bill further during the present Session. The reason he asked that question was, the absence of several country Gentlemen who were anxious to take part in the discussion on the bill.
 Sir E. Sugden  said, he had already stated, that he felt that the case of "The King  v. 308
 Mr. Darby  wished to know from the Attorney-general whether or not, under the clauses, a magistrate might not be called upon to decide a question of title. He also thought great oppression and injustice might be inflicted under this bill, on those who might be ejected from cottages which had garden ground attached.
 Mr. Darby  was convinced that the principle of the bill was a right one, and did not think that the land-owners should first pay for the rent which they received, and afterwards for the profits of their tenants. If the land-owner and tithe-owner were charged on the rent which they received, justice would be done.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that great injustice would be done were this clause carried into operation. There were many cases in which tithe had been commuted under the recent Act, and unless a clause was inserted in the bill applicable to those cases, a much higher rate would be imposed on the rent-charge than what had been formerly charged upon the tithe. Such a proceeding was highly improper and unjust, and he wished to know from the hon. Gentleman who had framed the bill, whether he would consent to the introduction of a clause protecting the interests of those who had commuted their tithes by an equitable adjustment into a rent-charge?
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he had felt it his duty to make the objection, not with the view of throwing an obstacle in the way of a bill of which he disapproved on other grounds, but because he thought it of importance that the House should adhere to those rules which had so long governed their forms of proceeding. He would now say a few words as to the general principle of the measure, which he considered as one of great injustice. It was a bill which, if passed in its present form, would alter the mode of rating property in parishes. The principle of the law of rating had always been, that it was to press equally on property, but this bill would depart from that principle, for in some cases it would make the rating on the whole profit derived from the produce of the land, while in others it would be made only on a portion of such profits. This was most unjust in principle, and in its application to many individuals, to the clergy, and to the owners of capital invested in railroads, canals, and many other species of property which were
 304 l. l. l.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that bringing in a bill in the manner in which that bill had been introduced, was a total perversion of the constitutional practice of the House. He felt it was a point on which the House ought to be jealous, and he hoped, that some remedy would be found by the hon. Gentleman opposite.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the title of this Bill had so little reference to its clauses, that it would not be competent for any Member to introduce it into Committee. He thought it would, therefore, be better, that the bill should be allowed to drop.
 The Speaker  said, it was certainly the general rule, that a declaratory bill should not also be an enacting one; but he thought, that if any doubt existed on the subject, the mistake could be remedied by an instruction to the Committee.
 Mr. Hume  said, when this establishment was commenced, the House received a pledge, that no establishment should be charged on the consolidated fund; instead of which there would be a vote proposed in the course of a few days for 12,000 l. 295
 Mr. Estcourt  as a Member of the Committee, had been in favour of the reduction from 20 l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the hon. Member had stated that the Record Commission cost the country large sums of money. He should not then stop to inquire with which side of the House that commission had originated; but should then content himself with saying, that the object of the present measure was merely the improvement of that commission, and it would be for the House to judge of the consistency of the hon. Member, who had previously made such loud complaints of the expenses attendant upon the commission, and now at once proceeded to oppose a bill, the main object of which was, to place all matters relating to the public records under the unpaid control of the Master of the Rolls.
 Mr. Bruges  said, that the House, in legislating on this subject, ought to consider the rent-charge as so much tithe, and then the question would be, supposing the tithe to be let, what sum was it likely to obtain? Upon that sum it was, that the assessment ought to be made, and it would not be fair to place the tithe-owner in a worse situation with regard to assessment than the landlord. As it was impossible to allow the law to remain in its present state, and as the bill, if properly worded, might prove beneficial, he should vote for the Committee.
 Sir George Grey  said, that measures had been taken for protecting the aborigines, which he hoped would prove satisfactory to the hon. Member.
 Sir G. Grey  moved the second reading of the Western Australia Bill.
 Sir R. Inglis  supported the amendment, because he thought it was a measure that would put into the pockets of the landholders a large sum of money that belonged properly to the tithe owners.
 Sir R. H. Inglis  did not concur in the suggestion of his hon. and gallant Friend, but still he recommended the reconsideration of this subject to the hon. Member for Hampshire.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that it was not the duty of his right hon. Friend, but the duty of those who framed the bill to propose a clause to prevent the injustice of which his right hon. Friend had complained. He thought that they were proceeding to legislate on this subject with great precipitation, and he contended, that time ought to be afforded for more mature deliberation. The interests of the tithe-owner had not been sufficiently attended to, and if the time were allowed, an equitable arrangement might be effected in regard to the owners of tithe. He would not say, that a measure of this kind was not necessary, but rather than proceed without mature deliberation to legislate on a subject so important as the present, it would be better to suspend for a time the compulsory operation of the Tithe Commutation Act. Of the two evils, that, he thought, would be the least, for at present they were totally
 307
 Sir Robert Peel  had not suggested that the sum should be 20 l. 302 l. l.
 Sir R. Peel  hoped the same measure of justice would be extended to the landlords of tenements above 10 l. l. l. l. l.
 The Solicitor General  was of opinion that they ought not to exceed the limit fixed in the clause, and he stated this without any wish whatever that the poor should be placed in a different situation
 301
 The Solicitor General  said, he was quite prepared cheerfully to submit to any unpopularity that might be supposed to attach itself to this bill, which he did not hesitate to say was a great improvement. It was, indeed, a bill quite as much calculated for the benefit of the poor as for that of the rich; as respected the former it must tend to encourage the building of convenient tenements for the occupation of the labouring and poorer classes. As the law stood with respect to the rich man, or landlord, it was absurd; the only chance a landlord now had of getting possession of a cottage forcibly withheld from him, after the termination of the demise or letting, was to bring his action of ejectment against a person who, if defeated, had no property sufficient, in 99 cases out of 100, to pay the costs, much less the damages that might be awarded. The bill, in effect, intended to do justice cheaply for the poor man and expeditiously for the landlord, and would mediate between them when they became litigants for the possession of the tenement in question.
 The Solicitor General  concurred in the views stated by the hon. and learned Member for Cockermouth, and could not think that the bill would interfere with voluntary commutations, or with those compulsory commutations which would take effect in October next.
 Mr. O'Connell  objected to the Roman Catholics being called upon to pay new taxes. He hoped, therefore, the hon. and learned Member would exempt Ireland from the operation of the bill, as he had already done Scotland. It would introduce a new church rate into that country.
 Colonel Perceval  hoped the hon. and learned Member would include Ireland, as he was convinced that such a bill was much more necessary for that country than England.
 Viscount Horvick  said, that after the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Bridport, he was anxious to, explain shortly the ground on which he concurred in the present proposition, and also in the general course which was proposed to be taken during the present session upon the subject of Irish affairs. The hon. Gentleman had stated the reasons that induced him to vote in 1835 in favour of the appropriation of the surplus property of the Irish Church; and said that his views were, in the first place, that a part of the revenue of the Irish Church would continue applicable to the support of the clergy, but that for the purpose of preserving that portion from the hostility of the people in that country there should be a different appropriation of the remainder, namely, that a real surplus should be applied to purposes of general public utility. He entirely concurred with the hon. Gentleman in those views. Those were the views which had induced him also to support those resolutions. He believed at that time, and he believed now, that the resistance which had been made to the payment of tithes in Ireland had arisen, not merely from the vexatious mode in which the impost was collected, but also from the natural hostility of the people to the purposes for which they were applied. He believed, that it was natural that a large population differing from the establishment should feel hostile to the application of the whole sum levied from the property of Ireland to support a Church, the doctrines of which were professed by only a small minority of the people, He felt that that was an objection which, if he were in their situation, he himself, should have most strongly
 358 l. 359 l. 360 361 362
 Mr. O'Connell  did not think, he said, that he had ever heard a more unfounded attack upon the people of Ireland than that which had just been made by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He might be mistaken in entertaining such an opinion respecting that attack, as he was a party in the cause. Yet he thought, that he could satisfy every reasonable person, that the whole of the attack of the hon. Member, even according to that hon. Member's own principles, was utterly unfounded. That hon. Member had said, that the people of Ireland had as much right to call upon the English people to pay their tithes, as the English people would have to call upon the people of Ireland to pay the church rates, which the Dissenters of England refused to pay. Why, the people of Ireland did not insist upon the people of England paying church
 369 370 371 372
 Lord Ingestrie  said, he could assure the House, that a lighthouse was very much required at Gibraltar, for the safety of the shipping.
 Mr. Langdale  thought, that a fund ought not to be appropriated to the landlords, in which there was something, in his opinion, of a sacred character. It had always been his opinion, that when a settlement of this question, which was desirable, should be adopted, the spiritual wants of the people of Ireland should be supplied; but when they were amply provided for, he was anxious that the residue should be preserved for the public for some useful purpose. Now, it appeared clear to
 365 l.
 Lord Worsley  would not oppose going into Committee; but it was his intention to persuade the House, if he could, to adopt certain clauses, which it was his intention to propose.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, he could see no reason why the Legislature should interfere on behalf of the county of Clare, any
 375
 Lord John Russell  bore testimony to the honourable and disinterested support of the hon. Member and his friends; but he had not adopted, upon the present occasion, any new course, for the question, as he had all along stated, was, whether he should introduce the appropriation clause into the bill, when there was no probability of the bill, with this addition, becoming the law of the land; and he could not, therefore, see why the hon. Member had used towards him such harsh expressions, especially when the hon. Baronet, the Member for Devon, had brought forward his motion, and had given him (Lord John Russell) not only an opportunity of again stating his opinions, but the House the power of re-affirming the principle of appropriation.
 Lord John Russell , referring to the objections which had been raised by some of the hon. Gentlemen who sat on that side of the House, admitted that very great difficulties must be encountered in any attempt that might be made to settle this question; but he certainly was not prepared, like those hon. Gentlemen, to say that he considered it discreditable to apply his mind in the best way he could to the difficulties of Ireland in the year 1838—to attempt the best solution he could find of those difficulties—and to look to the peace and prosperity of Ireland as his chief guide with respect to this question. Instead, therefore, of applying himself to the objections which had been raised by the hon. Gentleman who sat near him, he should rather direct himself to the observations which had been made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tam worth. The plan originally supported by the Government proposed to commute the tithe composition into a rent-charge, at a certain per centage, and to leave any future payment upon that foundation. It was said and said undoubtedly with great truth, that if the question were left in that situation, there would be not only much difficulty, but an absolute deterioration of property on the one hand; and, that there would be objections, if not resistance, to the payment of the rent-charge on the other; and it was proposed, in order to avoid those evils, that the arrears of which 640,000 l. 351 352 353 354 355
 Mr. Hawes  said, that he was glad to hear the speech of the noble Lord, for he rejoiced that there was one Member of the Cabinet who consistently adhered to his declared opinions, and who maintained them for the same reasons which he had supported them. The question then before the House was, whether they were to force a Church upon the people of Ireland, and
 363 364
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, it was a most unheard-of thing to oppose a resolution which was merely to enable the Government to introduce a bill. He could inform the hon. Member, that the shipping interest was anxious that a lighthouse should be erected, and they were perfectly willing to pay the toll of a shilling.
 Mr. C. P. Villiers  would not have risen upon the present occasion, if the Liberal Members had not been charged by the noble Lord with not expressing their opinions. He did not dread the reproaches of the noble Lord, nor the expressions of hon. Gentlemen opposite; but he was somewhat alarmed lest those who sent him to that House, or if any body of his countrymen should call upon him to explain any vote which he might give, if it were not in support of the amendment of his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny. In common with many English Members, he felt, that a great debt was due to Ireland for the manner in which we had long misgoverned her; and if the noble Lord had held out any hope, that this grant would make any improvement, or form
 367 l., l. l. 368
 Mr. Harvey  said, unpleasant as might be the declaration to a House fatigued by the length of its sittings, and protracted as those proceedings must appear, inasmuch as they happened to be so unproductive, still it appeared to him, that every Member of that House who felt it
 339 340 l. 341 l. 342 l. 343 344 345 346 347 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 348
 Mr. Grote  was anxious to take the first opportunity of entering his strenuous protest against the large additional charge which the noble Lord's proposition would introduce into the Irish Tithe Bill as regarded the people of England, and that, too, without the prospect or pretence of securing any permanent advantage to Ireland. It was not his intention to have taken part in any discussion that might have arisen upon the Tithe Bill, because he had, in fact, ceased to take any interest in that measure after the abandonment of the principle of appropriation; but the proposition now made by the noble Lord appeared to him to be at once so monstrous and so mischievous that he could not abstain from saying a few words in opposition to it. He confessed, that the right hon. Baronet appeared to him to have most completely vindicated his consistency against the attack of the hon. Member for Kilkenny and he thought that the right hon. Baronet might well be pardoned if he indulged a triumphant feeling when he found the proposition made by him in 1835 so eagerly adopted by the Government in 1838. He recollected the remarks of the right hon. Baronet in 1834, referring to the then intended measure of
 349 l. l. l. l. l. l. 350
 Mr. Grote  said, that his observations applied entirely to the proposition of the Government, and not in any way to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet.
 Sir G. Sinclair  protested against the course proposed by the noble Lord. The House having decidedly expressed its opinion, the bill ought not to be pressed further.
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to know what were the peculiar circumstances in this case, which justified the Legislature in advancing a sum of money to the county of Clare?
 Mr. Warburton  said, if the measure of Government offered any reasonable prospect of affecting either a permanent settlement of the tithe question, or even a lengthened truce upon the subject, then the Government would be justified in proposing the present plan; but when he saw that by the course now adopted a premium was held out for disobedience to the law—when he saw, that the arrears of tithes were to be excused to those who owed them—he thought he perceived in such a course of proceeding the certainty that tithes in future would no longer be paid. Taking this view of the subject, he considered that both parties, Conservatives and Whigs, in that House were not dealing sincerely with the question, and had only been playing with it. When he supported the appropriation clauses in 1835 he did so, not meaning the appropriation of a surplus which was to be no surplus, but he meant the appropriation of a real and tangible surplus out of the present revenue of the Church to the great public object of the general education of the people. He thought by the adoption of the appropriation principle there was a reasonable security given, that a certain portion of the revenue might be secured for the Church, while a tangible surplus would be secured for other great public purposes. But between the appropriation of a surplus which was no surplus at all and the abandonment of the appropriation principle he really did not consider that that there was a pin to choose. But the House having arrived at this conclusion, and having given a premium to resistance to the payment of tithes, and thereby putting an end to the payment of tithes for all time to come, he would say, that the tithe revenues for the clergy was, in fact, abandoned. This being the case, he would at once tell the public so. Let the Government say, "If you mean to support the clergy of the Church in Ireland, you must put the charge for their support
 357
 Mr. Warburton  said, notice should have been given of a bill, the effect of which would be in so many cases to saddle the country with great additional expense. If the bill were made permissive, it might have a beneficial effect.
 Mr. J. Grattan  also hoped the hon. Member would exclude Ireland.
 Dr. Nicholl  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman asked him to except Ireland from this bill, saying it would introduce a new Church-rate for Ireland. He denied this. If there were any part of the empire which ought to be submitted to the operation of the bill, it was Ireland. He could not consent to render this bill permissive, and thought he was bound to press the question without further delay.
 Dr. Nicholl  moved that the House resolve itself into a Committee on the Church Vestries Bill.
 Dr. Nicholl  said, considering the numbers on the division, and seeing how the influence of Government had been used against it, he did not despair of seeing some such bill carried in the ensuing Session.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move, that the grant to the Church in Ireland would be highly unjust to the people of England and Scotland, and subversive of those principles on which good government and equal justice could alone be maintained. In 1833, when a loan was proposed to the Irish clergy, under the pretence of procuring peace for Ireland; he opposed that proposition, because he objected to the principle of a price being paid, for the settlement of dissentions in that country, being persuaded that the result would be the contrary. It was said, then, that the burden of tithes being transferred from the occupying tenant to the landlord, the peaceable and quiet payment of the money would be procured. But, after five years' experience, they were in no better condition for securing peace in Ireland than before. In 1835, it was proposed to reduce the Irish church, by abolishing the fifty sinecure benefices, and reducing overpaid livings; and when it was understood that, by this measure, the Church Establishment in Ireland would be rendered more in unison with the feelings of tee people of that country, he did not object to the sacrifice then recommended, in
 325 "There is another party whose interests must be considered in the matter, besides the clergy of Ireland; I mean the people of England, who have already paid their own tithes. This sum ought to be paid by the people of Ireland; in what proportion by the landlord and tenant, I will not now stop to discuss; but if this legal charge is to be transferred to the people of England, who have already obeyed the law, it will certainly be holding out a premium to the disobedience of the law." "This principle of escaping from temporary difficulties by votes of money from the public purse, is one which I foresee will involve the country in inextricable confusion." "I agree with the right hon. Member for Tamworth, in thinking that the principle of the proposed measure is liable to great objections. We are actually giving a premium to disobedience of the law, and the amount of that reward is proportionate to the success of the resistance. By such a course, do we not hold out an inducement to people to violate the law? Let us not deceive ourselves in this instance, as in every other: the demand and the supply will regulate each other. In 1837
 326 327 "That the proposed grant of 640,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that the House would resolve itself itself into a Committee that day three months.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would oppose the resolution. The object of the resolution was, to levy a toll of a shilling upon every vessel that entered Gibraltar. He thought this the most paltry legislation ever attempted in that House.
 Mr. R. Wallace  said, he would oppose the resolution, and would divide the House against it, on the ground that they had not sufficient time to consider it.
 Mr. Hodges  seconded the amendment. In many parishes the Bill would cause great expense, and the whole measure was as objectionable as unnecessary.
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  supported the original resolutions, and contended, that from everything that had occurred on the subject of Irish tithes since the advance of the million, the people of Ireland were led to believe that the tithe arrears would be given up. If that expectation were now disappointed, the greatest excitement and discontent would prevail in Ireland. Would it not be placing the Irish clergy in an exceedingly disagreeable position to send them now to collect arrears so long due, and the collection of which was so little expected? He thought the additional grant of 260,000 l. l.
 Sir B. Hall  fully concurred, in what had fallen from the two hon. Members who had preceded him, and having recorded his vote in the year 1833, when a similar resolution was before the House, against the grant of money to the clergy of Ireland, he should vote with them on the present occasion, as no argument had been advanced, and no reasons assigned why a different course should be pursued now. The noble Lord, as stated by his hon. Friend near him, had taunted some hon. Members who took a course adverse to the Government for not having expressed their objections to the grant before that evening. He must say, that he did not consider that it was very wise or very considerate, on the part of the noble Lord, to do so. He must have known, that many Members were now n the House who formed part of the Parliament of 1833; and it might naturally be supposed, that those who voted in the minority then, would take the same view of the matter now, that they did at that period. Circumstances remained the same, excepting that the people were placed in rather a worse position, because, instead of a loan of one million, they were now called upon to give up positively about 740,000 l., 366
 Mr. Ward  could not allow the discussion to close abruptly upon a question of such vital importance. The House had to choose between two distinct propositions. The first was the plan proposed by the Members of her Majesty's Government, in conjunction with the Members of her Majesty's opposition, for both must take their share of the responsibility, for the settlement of the question, which had been so frequently, and fruitlessly, discussed in Parliament during the last five years. The second was, the amendment proposed by his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, which declared that plan to be based on the principles incompatible with good government and justice. To the Government plan, so developed in the resolution before them, and the additional clauses put into their hands that morning, he objected entirely. It seemed to him to have every fault that a plan could have. Even the terms of it were objectionable, for the resolution talked of the 260,000 l. 328 "video meliora proboque—deteriora sequor" l. l. 329 l. 330 l. 331
 Sir J. Graham  admitted, that the money due to these poor men must be made good, but not by England, or Scotland, or Ireland, but by the county of Clare itself. Why did not the wealthier ratepayers of the county come forward, and make some arrangement. They might obtain the money on account. He did not object to the noble Lord moving the third reading of the bill to-morrow, but he should oppose the motion.
 Sir Robert Inglis  said, the hon. Member for Southwark, taunts us with inconsistency in this matter. I objected to the original grant; I was overruled; the grant was made, or at least, to the extent of 640,000 l. 356
 Sir R. H. Inglis  trusted his hon. and learned Friend would not withdraw his motion. Every promise of opposition to this bill had been amply redeemed, for it had been opposed at every stage.
 Sir R. Peel  said—Sir, I conceive it is hardly necessary for me to go at any length into this subject, particularly as it has already been fully discussed, and as we have already decided a part of the proposition now advocated by the hon. Gentleman. By a large majority of the House of Commons we have declared that some attempt should be made to settle the Irish tithe question in a way that would not involve the appropriation clause. The hon. Gentleman moved a resolution in opposition to that proposition, but that resolution the House of Commons thought fit to reject by a large majority. I will not go over that ground again, but I think I have a right to assume—notwithstanding the course which the hon. Gentleman has taken, and taken against the wishes of hon. Members on his own side of the House, who are friendly to appropriation as an abstract principle—that it is the opinion of the great majority of this House, seeing the impossibility of carrying the principle of appropriation, that an adjustment of the Irish tithe question ought to be effected without the appropriation clause. So far, then, the noble Lord had the sanction of hon. Members on both sides of the House for endeavouring to bring about some satisfactory arrangement without reference to the principle of appropriation. The hon. Member for Kilkenny commenced his speech by charging other hon. Members of this House with inconsistency; and I confess, Sir, I was not a little surprised when he mentioned the name of the Member for Tamworth as one of those whom he considered as having acted inconsistently. I was, Sir, very much surprised when I heard the hon. Gentleman allude to me, because I think the course which I took in this instance was one which was perfectly consistent. Sir, I think that a public man is not to be
 332 Hume: 333 l. l. 334 335 l. l. 336 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 337 l. 338 l. l. l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel , begged to observe that he did not propose to deprive any man of his legal remedy for the recovery of tithe; nor did he propose to extinguish any tithe whatever.
 Mr. Hutt  had no objection to the erection of the lighthouse, but it ought to be erected and maintained out of the surplus revenue of Gibraltar.
 Viscount Morpeth  moved the third reading of the County of Clare Treasurer Bill.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that a similar advance was made some years ago to the county of Tyrone.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, the usual amendment, that the bill be read this day three months not having been made, it was competent to him to move, that it be read a third time to-morrrow. He had given notice of his intention, thinking it fairer after what had occurred, to do so; but he might have made the motion to-morrow, as a matter of course. He could assure the House, that if this were, in any respect, a party question, he should acquiesce in the decision; but as it affected several poor road contractors in Clare, men who were in a destitute condition, he begged the House would again take it into their consideration. There were about 17,000 l.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that in consequence of the defalcations of the treasurer, application had been made to Government for a loan, to which application the Government had acceded, fixing the interest at four per cent.
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that there were not the same facilities in the county of Clare, as in the parish of St. George, for raising money.
 Viscount Morpeth  gave notice, that he should move the third reading of the bill on the next day.
 Sir W. James  was anxious to offer a few observations in support of the motion of his noble Friend. In the early part of the Session they had heard a great deal on the subject of negro apprenticeship. He recollected, that it had been somewhat ludicrously urged, that the period of apprenticeship ought to terminate stimula-
 407 408 409
 Mr. Turner  wished to make one observation. He thought the allusion to those who had crowded the gallery when the Negro Apprenticeship Bill was under discussion, was uncalled for. Though those who were present on that occasion were few, yet no less a number than fifteen hundred thousand persons had petitioned Parliament for the termination of negro apprenticeship. The exertions of those individuals had produced a beneficial result; and he was sure, that all must
 410
 Mr. R. Ferguson  rose for the purpose of vindicating the proprietors of two respectable factories in his neighbourhood from any imputations that were made, as to the evils of the system generally. In his neighbourhood, there were two considerable factories, and no persons could be more anxious to carry the law into effect than the respectable proprietors of those factories. So far from having a desire to employ children contrary to the provisions of the act, they were most anxious to give the inspector every facility to examine every part of the works, in order that everything in the management of their factories should be carried on in an aboveboard and straightforward manner. He felt bound to say thus much, in justice to those parties.
 Mr. O'Connell  wished for a few moments to trespass upon the indulgence of the House. He wished to do so briefly; for he did not know any subject on which it was so easy to talk good-natured nonsense. Exceedingly fine feeling and exceedingly absurd political economy could be combined with the greatest facility upon this subject. The reason why he now intruded
 421 "What is the age at which children are now taken into the spinning-mills at Glasgow?—I believe the law says thirteen years of age, to work twelve hours a day; but I dare say there are some taken earlier than that. "Are they taken in at nine?—Yes. "Is it your opinion that the law is honestly worked out by not taking in children under nine, or do you think there is any fraud? I must say distinctly that the operative cotton-spinner is necessitated to overlook the law in order to keep his machine moving, by taking young children in below thirteen, for twelve hours a day, and below nine for eight hours a day. "To your knowledge the law is set at defiance?—It was a matter of necessity; the mills would stand still if such was not the practice. "Do you mean to say that it is impracticable to adhere to the law in that respect?—As far as my personal experience goes I mean to say—and I have a good deal of experience in the matter, having taken a very warm interest in that very question—that it is altogether impracticable to carry out the spirit of the present law as it now stands." "Were you rightly understood to have said that the law is violated with respect to the age of the piecers, and that they are brought in younger than the law allows?—Yes; the law is violated. "And generally violated?—Yes; and our employers are throwing all the responsibility of that violation of the law upon the operative. The operative is obliged to violate it or allow his machinery to stand." 422 "But you are understood to say that the work could not go on as it does now, unless you employed these piecers under the legal age of thirteen?—That is my opinion, that the work could not go on without employing children from nine to twelve years of age. "And employing them the entire twelve hours?—Yes. "You mean, that the manufacture could not go on for the same number of hours, but you do not mean that the manufacture would be stopped altogether, if no children were employed under the legal age?—I mean that the mills would be stopped." "Has the mode in which the act has been enforced been burdensome to the operative?—Exceedingly so. "In what way?—To the spinner it has been exceedingly so; to the amount of several shillings a week in his wages. "Describe how?—When the factory workers all came and left the mill together, the difficulty was not so great in getting a sufficient number of children to attend to the work; but since that has happened the spinner is anxious to get children old enough to continue the total number of hours, so that he might not be subjected to the inconvenience of changing; that has lessened the number of children in the cotton-mills, and turned them into the silk-mills; and the consequence has been, that children who were receiving 2 s. d. s. d., "You said the act had been disobeyed? Yes, it has. "In what respect only has it been disobeyed?—In respect to all its provisions, but more especially as to the eight-hour workers. "Then instead of being only worked eight hours, the children who ought to work only eight hours are worked twelve or thirteen?—Yes, by the aid of certificates from the surgeons, or connivance, or something of that kind; sometimes the connivance of the surgeon, the parent, and the employer." 423 s. d. s. d. 424 425 426
 Mr. Aglionby  could not give a silent vote upon the motion of the noble Lord,
 440
 Colonel Sibthorpe  rose to complain of this step of the noble Lord when he had a motion on the paper which he would say was of the utmost importance to the House, to the country, and particularly to his own constituents. Three of the returns which had been made to motions of his, respecting the expenses of the various commissions issued by Government, were palpably incorrect, and he believed designedly so, and he was desirous to inquire into the history of the expenses of these commissions, and to prove before a committee that they had
 446
 The Chairman  said, that now he understood the motion of the hon. and gallant Member, he must remind him that it could not be entertained in a committee, but must be moved in the whole House.
 Colonel Sibthorpe  hoped that what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman would receive the attentive consideration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the other Members of her Majesty's Government. The subject was one which ought to be strictly investigated.
 Mr. Wallace  rose to order. The noble Lord had taken a privilege which had been more than once denied to him, and many other hon. Members in similar circumstances—that of reply. He, therefore, called on the Speaker to know by what right, or why the noble Lord claimed and exercised that privilege?
 Mr. Fox Maule  said, that in answering the speech of the noble Lord he should have no occasion to pass those limits for restraining himself within which the noble Lord was remarkable; but he must be permitted to say, that the noble Lord's speech exhibited a highly-drawn, and, he thought, unnecessarily highly-drawn, picture of what the noble Lord called the misery in which the factory children of this country lived. The noble Lord had stated, that he did not intend to enter on the question of a ten hours or an eight hours bill; but the House could not doubt, that a great portion of what fell from the noble Lord was advanced indirectly in support of a principle the noble Lord had steadily advocated—the curtailment of the hours of labour. Now, the question before the House, appeared to him to be whether the House had acted expediently or otherwise in foregoing the consideration during the present Session of a measure certainly not tending in any way to alter the duration of labour in factories, but simply to amend and make more effectual an act which was admittedly inadequate in its present state, to carry out the intentions of the House in framing it. The noble Lord had dwelt on the unhealthy nature of labour in factories, and had compared the mortality of Manchester, with that of Birmingham, but he had omitted to state, that one of the inspectors distinctly asserted, that there were grounds for the increase of mortality in Manchester no way connected with factory labour, but proceeding from the pernicious system, on which the residences of those individuals whose lot it was to undergo this labour were constructed. If there had been a proper building Act in Manchester, or a proper supervision of the residences of these poor beings, much of the mortality that had occurred might have been avoided, and he must say, it was unfair to attribute to the operation of factory labour, effects which were clearly attributable to other causes. But the noble Lord would have the House suppose, that factory labour was of all others most injurious to vitality, that those who worked in mines or those who were engaged in any deleterious manufacture were better off. Now, he was ready to admit, that without protection the lot of the factory children would be one which was not only
 400 401 onus nil 402 403 ex parte sine guâ non ex parte 404 405 406
 Lord Ashley,  in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, said, that he had taken the case to which he had adverted, on the authority of the official statement. It was to be found in page 24 of the Report, printed by order of the House, on the 9th of March, 1837. It was under "Bury," which, he supposed, was Bury, in Lancashire; there were several counts in the information; the case was admitted, and a fine was imposed of 17 l., 413
 Lord Ashley  had not called them mill-owners, but persons connected with mills.
 Lord Ashley  (on the question that the House do resolve itself into a Committee of Supply) said, that he felt exceedingly sorry to interfere with the order of the day, and he felt himself most reluctantly driven to adopt that course; he had made every effort to avoid it, but the House must be aware that those efforts had been made in vain. Nothing, then, remained for him but to bring the question forward on the present occasion. In doing this he felt that at least his was a perfectly constitutional course, and from that course he had resolved not to swerve until he should obtain from the Queen's Government a full, final, and decisive answer. Were he capable of doing otherwise, his sincerity might reasonably be suspected after the many pledges he had given on the subject, and he trusted, that in discharging this important duty, he should prove how unfair it was to designate the excitement which prevailed on this subject as unjust agitation. According to returns made up to the year 1835, it appeared that the number of persons manually engaged in cotton mills amounted to 354,684; of course the numbers directly and indirectly interested in the cotton trade greatly exceeded that amount. From the able pamphlet of Mr. Gregg, he learned that not fewer than 4,000,000 persons were interested in the manufacture of cotton. From the statement which he intended to lay before the House he hoped to be able to show that the question was one not only of importance to the manufacturing districts, but of great moment to the country at large. Of the 354,684 persons manually engaged in cotton mills,
 384 385 "I would recommend that the hours of employment of workmen should be peremptorily fixed at ten hours a-day. I am quite sure that this would have the best possible effect, both upon the spinners, and in particular upon the piecers and the factory children; and I am quite sure it is the only thing that can possibly be done which will ever remedy the evils to which the inferior class of labourers connected with cotton factories are exposed." sine quâ non "I think," he said, "it is decidedly; I am quite sure, that all attempts to improve the condition of the factory children would be nugatory without it." "Do you see any means whatever of securing the peace and the happiness of those people, and the peace and happiness of the empire, except by giving to the children both the time and the means of a moral and religious education?" "I think not; unless they can get the means of moral and religious education, and time for it, and unless the habits of moral depravity, which now overspread the skilled classes from the operation of those combinations, are removed, I am perfectly certain that the existence of the British empire will be overthrown, that the moral pestilence will overturn entirely the social state of the country, and I see already around me every day in Glasgow that we are just to be considered as standing at the gate of the great pest-house. I see the labouring classes depraving to an extent under my eyes which I cannot find lan-
 386 "Such indiscriminate and unlimited employment of the poor, he said, will be attended with effects to the rising generation so serious and alarming, that I cannot contemplate them without dismay; and thus that great effort of British ingenuity, whereby the machinery of our manufactures has been brought to such perfection, instead of being a blessing to the nation, will be converted into the bitterest curse. 387 J. Russell, 388 389 l. s. 390 l. s. l. s. l. s. s. d. nil corpus mortuum. 391 392 l., l., l. l. 393 Habes confitentem reum. 394 animus Laughter from Lord John Russell. 395 J. Russell 396 397 398 399
 Lord Ashley  would save the right hon. Gentleman the trouble of deciding, as he would not proceed further in the remarks he was addressing to the House.
 Lord Ashley  was aware that he was not, by the forms of debate entitled to a reply, but he craved the indulgence of the House to answer one or two observations of the noble Lord opposite. He understood, for he was not present at the time, that the noble Lord had said the question had now become a party question, and that it had been brought forward in a party spirit. Of course that involved a serious charge against him, that ho had
 443
 Lord Ashley  trusted, he should be indulged with a few moments, while he answered the strongest and most unfounded imputations that had ever been uttered in public or private. How could the hon. Member assert, that he went to Manchester, and refused to inspect the mills, when the fact was, that he inspected every mill in the place? Did the hon. Member mean to ay, that he did not go with the hon. Member to Mr. Burley's mill, that he did not accompany him round the town; could he, in fact, point to one single place in which inspection was declined? How little must the hon. Member know of his visit to Manchester, when the fact was, that he visited every mill in the town? For this he would appeal to the hon. Member for Salford, who accompanied him. Did the hon. Member know how he (Lord Ashley) spent his evenings while in Manchester? He went to the garrets and the cellars of the operatives to make inquiries from the fathers and the mothers, and to ascertain the state of the children with his own eyes. And was he now to be told, when he brought the result of these inquiries, and labour before the assembled Commons of England, that he had resisted all investigation, and had declined the hon. Member's valuable assistance? On one point alone, he declined it, and that was the introduction to Mr. Horner. This he did decline, and on these grounds; he thought it would not have been fair to meet a man in private society at the convivial board, to obtain there his private opinions and feelings, and afterwards to express his opinion of his conduct as freely as his public duty might require. These were his reasons for declining the hon. Member's offer of introduction, and this was the only case in which he refused his assistance.
 Lord John Russell  said, that however he might be obliged to meet this motion, which imputed blame to the House of Commons, not only for its conduct during the last three years, but also most particularly for its vote on the 22d of June last, although he might consider it almost as a motion without precedent, seeing that it assumed the appearance of a motion of resentment for their non-attendance on a former occasion, when the noble Lord wished to make a speech upon it, still he would not deviate so far from the practice of Parliament as to attribute to the noble Lord any other motive for bringing it forward than an overstrained zeal for the interests of humanity. He must, however, observe, that upon this occasion, this question had assumed an appearance, which it had not assumed on any previous occasion at which it had been mooted, For
 428 429 430 431 432 433
 Lord J. Russell  in reply to the charge
 441
 Lord J. Russell  at that hour would merely move, that the chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again.
 Mr. Bennett  wondered, that no danger was apprehended from the too great increase of our cotton factories. The distress of the hand-loom weavers, who had been thrown out of employment, ought to have induced such a fear. There was great danger in the application of men's minds and capital to one object, more especially, as had been remarked, it was an object in which other countries were endeavouring to rival us. It was dangerous to have one manufacture carried to such an extent, and all others neglected. With respect to the vulgar clamour against corn-laws, in which he was sorry to find the hon. and learned Gentleman for Dublin join, he should remind the House, that any injury done to the agricultural interest would be most injurious to the home trade. Opening the ports to foreign corn would have the effect of reducing wages to the lowest standard, and would be of no advantage to the operative classes. If the factory children were their own masters, or if the parents were in less distress, then labour ought to be free for legislative interference; but that was not the case. He had himself witnessed much misery and decrepitude from putting children to labour at a tender age, and he, as an Englishman, would never yield up the health or strength of the English population, in consideration of any amount of wealth which might be acquired by the sacrifice. He had himself a deep personal interest in the agricultural prosperity of the country, yet he would at once abandon the corn-laws, if he thought, in doing so, he could benefit the labouring classes; but he would not sacrifice the health of those classes for any amount of wealth, however large.
 Colonel Sibthorp  must of course submit to the rules of he House.
 Mr. Wood  said, he should certainly have been proud if the noble Lord had accepted his invitation; but that was not the circumstance to which he had alluded. It was the fact of his having requested the noble Lord to accompany Mr. Horner on his inspection of the mills. The noble Lord said, be visited Mr. Burley's mills. He did so, but that was the only mill he visited. Most assuredly, he, on that occasion, offered his best services to procure the noble Lord, admission to all the mills, but he understood his Lordship to
 419
 Mr. Wood : At the time the noble Lord spoke it was his (Mr. Wood's) impression, that he had called them three millowners; but, of course, he was bound to accept the noble Lord's explanation. The fact was, that he had for several years been a
 416 417 418
 Mr. G. Wood  said, that as the noble Lord had accompanied his reference to the case with severe censures upon the conduct of the magistrates engaged in it, he trusted the House would allow him to explain that conduct, and to vindicate himself from those imputations. The noble Lord had stated, that the case had been dismissed in ten or twelve minutes.—[Lord  Ashley: 414 415
 Mr. G. Wood  said, as the noble Lord had alluded to the conduct of some magistrates of the county of Lancashire, he wished the noble Lord to state on what authority he grounded the statement, and also to name the particular case to which he alluded.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that if there were any thing ridiculous in the course which the House was called on to pursue—an allegation which he distinctly denied—if
 434 435 436 437 bona fide 438
 Mr. Fielden  supported the motion. The hon. Member was understood to say, that the Government did not dare to execute the law for the regulation of factory labour for fear of the master manufacturers' influence against them. If a Ten Hours' Bill had been originally passed, the entire question would have been long since set at rest. It was one of the strongest signs of weakness which the Government could exhibit to decline to entertain the subject.
 Mr. Fielden  argued that Government dared not execute the law, because, notwithstanding its repeated infringement, they had not hitherto done so.
 Mr. Brotherton  said, he was in justice to the noble Lord bound to state that he (Mr. Brotherton) accompanied him to several mills, and he must say, that on those occasions the noble Lord showed no indisposition to ascertain the real state of the manufacturing population. He would not detain the House, but the subject now before it was one in which he had taken a deep interest for more than twenty years, and for that reason he hoped he should be indulged with a few moments' attention. He had always been an advocate for legislation with regard to the factories, and he thought, that the facts would bear him out in saying that the legislation which had taken place had been of very great use. He wished to be understood in anything he said on the present occasion as attacking the system, not as imputing any blame to the Government, the magistrates, or the inspectors. He considered that the present Act was so complicated that it could not be tarred into effect. He had stated those sentiments during the progress of the bill through that House, and opposed every clause; and he did think, considering the attention he had devoted to the subject—and the inspectors had since borne him out in the assertions he then made—that his opinion was entitled to some little attention. He considered that the main object of the Act was to protect young people from excessive labour; and he thought he should be able to show, that it was constantly violated both by masters and operatives—that it was complicated in its provisions, and inconvenient to the employers and the employed; and that it did not give that protection to the children which the Legislature designed it should. In proof of its violation he had only to allude to what had been said by the noble Lord, and to the return which he had had the honour of moving for. By that return it appeared there were 4,000 mills in which 360,000 children were employed, and that during three years in which the Act had been in operation, there had been 2,000 convictions, and penalties inflicted to the amount of 2,500 l. 420 s. d. s.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that if any doubt as to this motion having been brought forward for party purposes, had existed previously, the speech of the right hon. Gentleman would have the effect of completely removing it. The right hon. Gentleman had, indeed, avowed as much. He had admitted, that he came forward to cast blame upon the Government. He pitied the hon. Gentleman, that they had no other means of annoying the Government, than the factory question. For his part, he was glad when be ascertained that the bill had been dropped, he had opposed it at first. He had told the noble Lord, that if it could be possibly carried, its effect would be to ruin the manufacturing districts, and that, instead of serving, it would have the effect of seriously oppressing the factory children. The hon. Member for Salford had truly said, it was worse than useless. It would be impossible to carry out the bill—it would be impracticable, if they wished to allow the manufacturers to continue, or the labourers to have bread to eat. The noble Lord (Lord Ashley) appeared to think, that the noble Lord at that side of the House (Lord John Russell) was to blame for not having introduced and carried through the bill; if that were the fact, he
 439 s. d., s. s. d.
 Mr. Grimsditch  objected to it on the ground that the expenditure was most extravagant. The Poor-law Commission had in fact been increasing every year. In addition to the three commissioners, there were now three secretaries, all barristers, and 21 assistant commissioners, who received salaries amounting annually to 40,000 l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the hon. Gentleman, that under this head of expenditure the greatest economy had been enforced. When the extent of the grant was talked of, it should be remembered that the most pressing applications were made from the country for assistance to carry into effect the provisions of this bill, and those applications had caused a great increase of expenditure. If any complaint was made that 40,000 l.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that as he had been made the subject of attack in one of the party papers of the day, he trusted that he would be afforded an opportunity of making an explanation of the circumstances to which the attack referred. It had been stated, that on the occasion which had been fixed for the discussion of the noble Lord's motion, he had entered into a conspiracy with the Government to have the House counted out. If no one but himself had been assailed by the miserable scribe who penned those lines, he should not have troubled the House on the subject. The abuse of such an organ as  The Times, Times, 411 412
 Sir C. Grey  said, that it was not his intention to give an opinion on the merits of this question, as he was not acquainted with its details, but he rose to object to the form of this motion, as he conceived it to affect the rights and privileges of the House. The present motion conveyed a vote of censure on Ministers for not bringing forward and carrying a particular bill. Now, he would say, that the House could only agree to this motion if they recognized the existence of a body in that House who could carry any measure they pleased. To this proposition all the principles which he had imbibed from the reading and study of the constitution were repugnant, and he could never subscribe to it.
 Sir C. Knightley,  in reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Kilkenny respecting the difference between the price of corn at Hamburgh, and generally on the continent, and the price of corn in England, begged to say, that the comparison sought to be established by the hon. Member's inference was quite invidious. When the hon. Member was prepared to prove, that the rate of wages in England was not double the rate of wages in those countries, he would admit the force of his argument, but not until then. If the hon. Member succeeded in showing him that the rate of wages in Hamburgh was equal to the rate of wages in England, while in the latter country corn was double the price that it was in the former, he should do for once, in respect of the corn laws, what he had never yet done in his life-time—vote with the hon. Member for Kilkenny.
 Sir G. Grey  agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that if any doubt existed it ought to be removed, all he wished to do was to avoid pledging himself at present.
 Sir G. Grey  said, that the bill as it came from the Lords was in its details open to objections. In some cases certainly the bill would act as a prohibition, but in others it would amount to a legal sanction, and on the whole it would not effect the purpose for which it was intended; he therefore proposed to discharge the order, on the understanding that the Indian Government would prevent the emigration of labourers to the West Indies until there should be time for a full investigation of all the circumstances. It was most necessary that contracts should be put an end to, or rather the practice of making contracts should be stopped, when one class of the contracting parties were not aware of the position in which they were placing themselves. His right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control, was prepared to state that the prohibition could be enforced for a time, and arrangements could be made to render invalid any contracts not effected in the colony in which the labourer intended to settle, and not made with the sanction of a stipendiary magistrate.
 Sir G. Grey  observed, that the bill on the Table of the House was confined to emigration under contracts—that was the subject-matter on which the bill would operate. With regard to the powers possessed by the Governor-general, it was a matter to which his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control had turned his attention, and when called upon he would give the House any information that might be required.
 Mr. M. Philips  said, that the interpretation put on the words of the noble Lord were not by any means fair or candid. The noble Lord had only justified the Government in not carrying the law in question into effect, on the grounds that every other law was, in a greater or lesser degree, infringed on likewise. An injustice had been also done to his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Trade when he was taxed with countenancing a breach of duty on the part of the factory inspectors. He should never be found attempting to justify in the slightest degree the infringement of the factory law by the masters; but he felt bound to say, that the cupidity of parents was in most cases as much to blame as the cupidity of the manufacturers. He thought the present Session was not the best time for introducing any measure on the subject, inasmuch as it necessarily involved many other questions, such as national education, the Corn-laws, &c., before it could be satisfactorily settled: but he hoped that one would be introduced in the next Session, and he should then give it his best consideration. The noble Lord opposite had used very strong language in reference to the manufacturers—he had termed them "merciless," "grasping," "griping," and so on. Did the Noble Lord mean to apply those terms generally to that large body of men. [Lord  Ashley 442
 Sir J. Graham  wished to know whether her Majesty's Government had made up their minds as to the course which they intended to pursue with regard to the East-India Labourers' Bill.
 Sir R. Bateson  concurred in the sentiments which the noble Lord had expressed, and which did so much honour to his heart, and which had been expressed with an ability so creditable to his talents. On the last occasion on which this subject was before the House, he had heard some statements made with respect to the state of factories in Ireland. He resided in a part of Ireland where factories were rapidly increasing; and he thought, that he was acquainted with the sentiments both of the employers and the individuals employed in those factories. It was stated on a former evening, by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, as well as by the hon. Member for Dublin, that the parents of the children employed in those factories, were adverse to any alteration of the present system; as the shortening of the hours of labour must have the effect of diminishing wages. He knew the feelings of the parents of the children employed in the part of Ireland with which he was connected, and he did not believe, that there was any amongst them so slavish—so devoid of parental feeling—as to sacrifice the lives and morals of their children for the sake of the few shillings that they could earn by those additional hours of protracted labour. On behalf of the operatives of the district where he resided, he denied that they were actuated by any such base, selfish, and sordid sentiments. He felt bound, as a matter of duty to those persons, to make this statement; for he could not sit still and hear it asserted, that for some additional gain they were willing to sacrifice their children to the continuation of such a system.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, the hon. and learned Member for Dublin had taunted the Opposition side of the House with talking goodnatured nonsense; if the hon. and learned Member had contented himself with uttering good-natured nonsense, he should not have troubled the House with any observations in reply; but why had the hon. and learned Gentleman converted a general subject of Christian humanity into an inopportune discussion on the corn-laws? For himself, and the friends with whom he was surrounded, he hoped they would never be accused of
 427 J. C. Hobhouse,
 Sir R. Peel  observed, that the Session had now considerably advanced. If the East-India Labourers' Bill were dropped, it would be necessary to have security given that for two years emigration should be prohibited. He should be content with two years as that would give time for
 383
 Sir R. Peel  desired to know if the hon. Baronet opposite was enabled to state that the Governor in Council did possess authority to prohibit the emigration of natives of the East Indies. If a person calling himself an agent were about to send 100 or 150 of them to the West Indies, could the governor prevent that?
 Mr. Wallace said , that in rising to bring before the consideration of the House in the most prominent form, the question involved in this bill, he meant to do so as briefly as he could. The subject he conceived to be one of paramount importance; it was untried, and it was equally new to the House and the country. He wished, first, to declare his unqualified approbation of railways, and to state his desire to see them extended all over the country. In entertaining that wish he must, however, say that he was completely hostile to all monopolies, and he thought, that the railway proprietors had obtained a mo-
 448 449 450
 Mr. Wallace  continued by saying, that from the return of the Postmaster General it appeared, that the cost of the railway conveyance of mails was more than double that of their being sent by mail coaches. It was about two-pence a mile for conveyance in mail coaches, and nearly five-pence a mile for the conveyance of mails, when they could have them for two-pence, he did not see that any more petitions need be laid on the table of the House for that purpose. There had been a great deal of evidence gone into, and the report showed, that the Government could place engines on the railways for the purpose of conveying their own mails. The Government, in his opinion, was entitled to do this by all the acts which had been passed. Evidence had been received from parties, directly or indirectly interested in preventing the Government from availing themselves of the power which they had. He was convinced that there was no good reason why the Government should not have engines constructed, and place them on the railways for the carriage of their
 451
 The Attorney General  felt called upon to say a few words after what had fallen from the noble Lord. He did this with great deference to the noble Lord, for he felt that he could not discuss a point of law with the noble Lord without some degree of awe as it was under the noble Lord that he had formerly practised in the early part of his career. He remembered that the noble Lord had laid down the law authoritatively and very satisfactorily; and for one in the station of chairman at quarter sessions, he had the opportunity of observing, that no man administered the law more to the satisfaction and the benefit of the public. At the same time, when it came to a question of prerogative—always speaking with very great deference—he must be allowed to look at the law authorities on the subject. He had to consider what the various luminaries of the law of England had laid down; and, with deference to the noble Lord, he must express an opinion totally different from that which the noble Lord had propounded. He had to contend that railroads were not distinguished for this purpose from other roads made with stone throughout the country. This doctrine had been laid
 460 461
 The Attorney General  begged to be allowed to say one word in explanation. He was just as anxious as the right hon. Baronet, that a fair and ample compensation should be paid to the railroad proprietors for the use which the country derived from their roads. He did not say, that the public had an unlimited and unrestrained right to make use of railroads. What he did say, was this: that what right the public had upon payment of tolls to make use of railroads, that right the Crown had to make use of them without paying.
 Mr. Langdale  rose to propose the clause of which he had given notice, relative to Catholic chaplains.
 Lord Granville Somerset  perfectly concurred in the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, that some measure ought to be passed to give protection to the Post-office with regard to communication, but he must say, that he certainly was astonished at the statement of the right hon. Gentleman as to the comparative rate of expense. He did not for a moment mean to insinuate, that the right hon. Gentleman had not faithfully compared the returns which had been put into his hands, but those returns were so entirely contrary to the stream of evidence that had been given with regard to the communication on the Grand Junction Railway before a Committee of that House, that, until he saw some analysis, and the returns and data on which this comparative statement was founded, he felt bound to say, that he for one must hesitate to give his confidence as to the comparison that had been made between the expenses of the railroad and the former expenses. But he was still more astonished at the doctrine laid down by the learned law officers of the Crown, that these railroads might be used by the Crown by the right of the prerogative, and that the Crown might use the railroads, without fee or reward, for the conveyance of troops, as on any other highway. He certainly felt
 459
 Mr. Hawes  thought, that the question before the House was one of a very simple character, and should be considered quite apart from those other considerations which the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had sought to throw around it. It was a question of dispute between the Post-office and railroad proprietors, in order to settle which an arbitration clause was proposed. Now, if the object were to allow to the arbitrators a full opportunity of considering every matter in dispute between those parties, there was no doubt that such a course would afford the greatest facility for doing so; but if there was to be anything in the shape of exclusion, it would neither be fair nor likely to lead to an harmonious or satisfactory settlement. It was but right they should come to a distinct understanding on that point. The right hon. Gentleman was desirous of excluding from the arbitration one branch of the question. If that were just, why not have mentioned it in his clause? By this bill they were trying to collect together such a body of facts and authentic information as would enable that House or the Government to introduce at a future period an act which would set at rest all contested points, and compel justice to be done. If they worked harmoniously with the railroad companies,
 476
 Mr. Baines  said, that he could not concur in the claim set up on behalf of the Crown to enjoy the use of the railroads for the passage of the mails free of charge, and he was surprised, that this claim, which had been abandoned in the amended bill now before the House, was re-asserted in argument. If a claim of that nature was to have been asserted, it ought to have been made before the railway bills were passed through Parliament, and then the persons investing capital in those constructions would have known what they sad to expect, and they might either have undertaken, or not undertaken, the work
 465 l. 466
 Mr. Labouchere  entirely agreed with his right hon Friend who had just sat down, that nothing could be worse policy for the public, and nothing more unbecoming the Government, than to ask the railway companies to convey the mails on any other terms than such as would secure to those companies a fair and full remuneration; and he might add, that he for one should be very sorry to propose to the House any measure which he thought would not secure to them an ample and full remuneration for their services to the public. But unless the House were prepared to maintain what had ever been the policy of this country—namely, to make the Post-office service a favoured service—if they consented to do this, and put the Post-office upon a level with private persons, they would be sinking the revenue of the Post-office, not for the purpose of taking a burden off the public, but for the purpose of putting the difference into the pockets of the railway proprietors. And it was because he believed that course to be
 472 473 474
 Mr. Labouchere  had no hesitation in replying to his right hon. Friend's appeal. He admitted, that it was the intention of the Government, in proposing this bill, that the arbitrators should be left entirely free, and with a perfect right to enter into such inquiriesas they might deem necessary to enable them to make their award. He had felt it necessary, however, to state, that he thought it would require very special circumstances to justify the original cost of construction being taken into consideration. The wish of the Government was, that the whole question should be left to the decision of fair and honourable men.
 Mr. Labouchere , on moving (in compliance with a resolution of the Committee) "that leave be given to the Chairman of the Select Committee on combination of workmen to communicate such parts of the evidence taken before them, and to such persons, as he may deem necessary," observed, that the subject of the publication of evidence taken before Committees of that House, deserved the earliest and most serious consideration. At present, there existed no general rule for their guidance, and it often happened, that much inconvenience arose from a partial publication of the evidence, and sometimes from no publication of it at all.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, that he had made this motion as the Chairman of the Committee, and by their direction. He entirely agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that the publication of  ex parte 483 ex parte
 Mr. Labouchere  said, the principle of this bill was, that the whole control of railways should be left to the proprietors. They did not propose to interfere with that control, and he thought it would be more expedient to adhere to that principle.
 Mr. Labouchere  could, he said, assure his hon. Friend, who had just sat down, that if he did not enter into all the details of this important subject, it was not through any disrespect for his hon. Friend, and still less from any insensibility as to the importance of the subject itself. He agreed with many of the opinions which had been expressed by his hon. Friend. He agreed with him, for instance, in thinking that the House and the Legislature had legislated blindly and rashly on the subject of railways; and he agreed with his hon. Friend in fearing that the consequences would be so very severely felt by the country, as to require hereafter the consideration of Parliament. He felt, upon the present occasion, unwilling to ask the House to enter into the discussion of a subject which must involve so many complicated details. He was rather persuaded that he ought to limit their attention to that which, it was true, was but a small part of the subject, but yet, which was not in itself by any means an unimportant question, namely, what was the present state of the railways, as affecting the Post Office communications of the country. That was a question which required the consideration of Parliament. He was surprised, then, when his hon. Friend, after the speech he had made, and in which he had stated distinctly that which no man could deny, namely, that at the present moment the country was entirely at the mercy of the railway companies, not only as to the due conveyance of its correspondence, but also as to the terms on which it was to be conducted, or in other words that it was in the power of the railway companies completely to impede the correspondence of the country, or for the conductors of the railways to affix such terms as they might think fit—when he had heard his hon. Friend state this, he was certainly surprised, that after such a statement, his hon. Friend should have concluded by recommending that they ought not to legislate on the subject during the present Session, kit that it would be right for them to put off for six months any attempt at remedying such a state of things. Now, he thought, that whatever might be their opinions on other subjects, it was their duty, free from all party divisions, to attend to this very important matter; and, in his judgment, Government would desert its duty, and the House would de-
 453 454 455 bonâ fide 456 457 l. l. l. l. l. 458
 Mr. Labouchere  remarked, that a document had been furnished to him by the Postmaster, which he tendered to the hon. Member. The document was certainly one of importance, and he himself intended to make use of it.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the point in dispute was, whether the company should receive remuneration for the conveyance of letters proportioned to the cost of constructing the railway. He thought the most equitable method of settling the matter, would be to assume as the original cost of construction such a sum per mile as might be presumed to be a fair average amount of expenditure. He believed, that from the natural difficulties presented by each route, few railways cost less than 25,000 l. l. l.
 The Speaker  said, that this was a subject of very great importance, and one which it was necessary, that the House should take into consideration early next Session, and distinctly state what were the rules, that ought to be established. If this were not done the House would be infallibly driven to this alternative, either, that all evidence must become public, or, in order to obviate that evil, they must make a much greater number of secret Committees—a practice to be, if possible, avoided. The House, he thought, would fall into a very great error if it did not early next Session, and before any Committees were appointed, lay down some rule upon this subject.
 The Speaker  called the hon. Member to order, and observed, that he had no right to make use of statements which had not been already laid before the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  submitted to the House, now that the preliminary discussion had, in point of fact, been closed, whether they had not better distinctly keep to the point immediately before them. He believed, that no serious objection would be raised till they got to the 15th clause.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had very little to add to the able and concise statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice-President of the Board of Trade, and he rose only for the purpose of correcting any misconceptions the House might have derived from the observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth, and the noble Viscount the Member for Liverpool. The noble Lord had used terms with respect to this subject which were improper as to the conclusion which he appeared to have drawn. What the noble Viscount had said was, that the proposition would have the effect of cheating the railway companies, and that the Government proposed to give them no renumeration. He denied, however, that such was the case. The practical question was simply this. The Government found a railway between Manchester and Liverpool, for instance, created as a private speculation, and they called on the private company to perform a public service, and they said, that no additional charge should be made with respect to the speculation, but that the company should receive only a fair and adequate remuneration for the services performed, for the speculation was entered into, not for the benefit of the Post-office, but merely for the advantage of private individuals, and, therefore, as they did not affect them in any way, the additional charge to which they should be subject by reason of the Post-office services was the  quantum 477 No, no! 478
 Sir J. Graham  was glad to find that
 467 l. l. 468 l. l. 469 470 471
 Sir James Graham  would at once reply to his right hon. Friend's suggestion by stating, that he only brought forward his amendment in consequence of what appeared to be the prejudice of this award.
 481
 Sir James Graham  begged it to be understood, that if he had said anything in the shape of a threat it was not for a moment intended. He was quite satisfied with what had been stated by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere), and sincerely hoped, that the bill would operate in such a way as to prevent the necessity of any further Parliamentary interference. At the close of the discussion he begged to repeat, that if, contrary to his hope and expectation, any obstacles should arise from a system of unfair dealing on the part of the railroad companies, no Member of the House would be more ready than he should be to join with the Government in adopting the strongest measures to compel them to be just.
 Sir J. Graham  said, he was most anxious to support to the utmost of his power the harmonious settlement of this question. He was convinced that legislation was necessary, and therefore he agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Labouchere), that if the terms of this harmonious settlement should ultimately be found insufficient for the protection of the public, further powers would be necessary. On a future day, he should be most willing to consider this subject, when the necessity presented itself; but they had now to deal with the present. He was very much opposed to the strong provisions contained in this bill in the first instance, but to these it was not necessary now to refer, as they bad very nearly arrived at an harmonious settlement of the terms. He must be allowed, however, to add, that he had heard with regret the topics that had been introduced by his right hon. Friend, and more strongly insisted upon by the high prerogative lawyer near his right hon. Friend. He was glad that his noble Friend (Lord G. Somerset) had come to the rescue, as he (Sir James Graham) was not prepared to argue such a point with a lawyer of such eminence, as her Majesty's attorney-general. The point, however, was worthy of some discussion, inasmuch as he thought that the differences with respect to the terms of the agreement depended on the distinct understanding of this point, and upon the right of the prerogative. The Attorney-general had laid it down broadly, that there was no distinction between railroads and the common highways, between roads of stone and roads of iron; and he added, that the Crown had the same rights upon railways as upon turnpike roads. In the first place, he must ask the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether he saw any difference between a highway made of iron or stone, and a highway of water? Did her Majesty's troops, which were constantly passing to Liverpool by the canal, and particularly the guards, pay nothing? What said the Master-general of the Ordnance, or the Secretary at War? Unless he (Sir J. Graham) had been misinformed, the troops so conveyed by the canal paid for their passage. Then, again, with respect to bridges, Fulham-bridge, for in-
 462 463
 Mr. Pakington  moved an adjournment of the debate, in consequence of many Members having gone away under the impression, that the clause would not now be brought forward.
 Sir R. Peel  quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that great inconvenience oftentimes arose from  ex parte
 Sir Robert Peel  said, that the House was now called upon to repair an enormous error into which it had fallen, when the railroad bills were under discussion. They ought to have foreseen, when these bills were before them, that they were, in fact, establishing a monopoly, a monopoly in respect to which there could be no future condition. They ought to have foreseen, that if the railroads were successful, other modes of internal communication would
 479 480
 Sir R. Peel  did not think, that the practice of printing evidence for the use of the Members of the committee was an unmixed good, inasmuch as it gave the Members an inducement not to attend the meetings of the committee, because they consoled themselves with thinking, that they should have an opportunity of reading the evidence—a duty which he was afraid, was not always very strictly performed.
 Lord Sandon  complained, that the right hon. Gentleman should have endeavoured in the speech he had just delivered to enlist in his favour all the sympathies of the House, by declaring that the object of the bill was to confer a benefit on the public by establishing a cheap conveyance of letters, and thereby effecting a reduction in the amount of postage. That was not the question which the House had to consider. The question, was, whether the public interest conferred a right upon the Post-office to take possession of rail-roads and make use of them without the slightest remuneration whatsoever. That was the plain and simple question which the House was called upon to decide. That the railway companies should be subject to control he readily admitted; but there was a wide difference between justifiable control and absolute sway, between fair remuneration and robbery; for such it would be, to use the property of those companies without paying for it. He felt it to have
 475 l.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that nothing could be more disagreeable to him than to attempt a legal discussion; but when he heard railroads put on the same footing as the highway, he confessed, that there seemed to him to be a very broad and evident distinction. It was very true, that her Majesty and her Majesty's troops and mails were permitted to pass over turnpike roads without paying toll; but that was in consequence of specific enactments in every turnpike act. But they did not find any such enacting clause
 464
 Lord Stanley  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Gibson), though certainly not to the extent that no moral or religious instruction should be communicated to persons confined in prisons but by men of the same persuasion as themselves; but he fully concurred, and he thought the House could not but concur, in the remark, that if they desired to reform the morals of prisoners by means of the communication of religious truth, an infinitely greater degree of success might be expected from the effect upon those prisoners of the ministrations of persons of their own creed. He would not support this clause if he thought it possible that the principle applied by it to the case of prisoners in gaols could be extended to the community at large. He thought, however, it was important that the magistrates should have the power of selection, and power of dismissal; for he did not approve of the manner in which the clause of the hon. Gentleman fettered the discretion of the magistrates. But, upon the whole, if the House went to a division, believing as he did it to be an imperative duty to provide the prisoners in gaols with moral and
 495
 Lord Stanley  had not any intention of entering upon the wide field of discussion to which he had been invited by the noble Lord (Viscount Howick), or by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets; he would not discuss the future prospects, or the views, or policy, affecting the maintenance or extinction of the Protestant Church in Ireland. His noble Friend who had caused such a discussion was the last person whom he (Lord Stanley) could accuse of wilfully concealing his opinions. He did not think, that this charge could be advanced against the noble Lord; but it was not necessary, after what had passed in that House to discuss, not the frankness, but the prudence of the declaration of his noble Friend if, however, he did pass by the prudence or the imprudence of that declaration, he rejoiced that the experience of the last four years had taught his noble Friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, the imprudence of manifesting any difference of opinion which might exist in the Cabinet; but it was surprising, with the views which the noble Lord, the Secretary at War, now entertained, that he could have supported the Appropriation Clause. The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) did consider the appropriation principle as a fair and honourable compromise: but if his noble Friend, the Secretary of State, thought, that this was a fair and reasonable compromise, he knew that there was even at that time in the Cabinet itself one who thought that it neither could nor would be satisfactory to the country.
 524 525 526 l. l. l. l. 527 J. Russell l. l. l. 528 l. l. l. 529
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that before the House went to a division on this subject he wished to say a few words on the present position of the question. While on the other side of the House it was talked of applying the whole of the money, he would ask whether it was just that it should be applied at all? They voted that the money which had been illegally withheld should be paid; but the people of Ireland determined not to pay it, and then they voted this money in order to exonerate them. Therefore, when the noble Lord opposite came forward and talked of the comparison of justice, he totally forgot the previous question. The money was not voted on the ground of justice, but on the ground of state policy, which was superior to the ordinary rules of justice between man and man, and for the purpose of obtaining peace and quiet. It was in fact a sort of proposition for peace and quiet. Now, what was proposed on the other side? Why, not to extinguish these arrears. They could get quiet, but for the arrears, and they would not extinguish them. He could not suppose that they would permit such a law to come into operation, for he could not imagine that any person could go bidding from one clergyman to another to ask if he would take ten shillings or fifteen shillings in composition. If they did not
 535 l. l. l. 536
 Mr. Shiel  did not mean to enter on the whole merits of the case, but to address himself to one point in the plan of the right hon. Baronet. With the greatest respect he begged to suggest a difficulty in that plan which he did not see how the right hon. Baronet could get over. What did the right hon. Baronet intend to do in regard to executors? Would executors have the power to accept the 50 per cent,
 537 R. Peel, 538 l. l. 539 fidus Achates Pylades Orestes Stanley 540
 Lord Stanley  said, that the loss of the 640,000 l.
 Lord Stanley  repeated, that it was the appropriation principle of 1834, which led to the 640,000 l.
 Mr. Langdale  supported the clause, the operation of which, he said, would not extend to more than a few prisons in the metropolis and Lancashire, where there were a great number of inmates dissenting from the religion of the Established Church. He put it to the House whether they would, by rejecting the clause, deprive those ignorant and demoralized men of the only religious instruction of which they could avail themselves—that furnished by the clergymen of their own communion.
 Mr. Fox Maule  regretted, that he must oppose the motion of his hon. Friend. He, with his hon. Friend, placed considerable value on the clause; but in order to conciliate the opinions of some hon. Gentlemen opposite, and in order to secure the other advantages which would, no doubt, result from the bill, he had been induced to forego it. His honour was pledged, and, therefore, he must resist the motion of his hon. Friend.
 Lord John Russell  proposed to omit it, and substitute for it a clause declaring, that the right of all persons to tithes, or to composition of tithes which had already accrued, or which might hereafter accrue, should cease and determine, &c.
 Lord J. Russell  did not think with the hon. Member who spoke last, that the case of prisoners was not distinguished from that of poor persons out of doors. In his opinion, prisoners stood peculiarly in need of religious instruction, as they were men either condemned for or suspected of crimes against the peace and good order of society, and there was a positive obligation on the Legislature to convey to them as much instruction as might serve to
 494
 Lord John Russell  commenced by observing that the right hon. Baronet, in pursuance of the plan stated by him to the House a few evenings ago, had now brought forward a proposition, differing in some respects from that suggested by the Government, but still proposing by not very dissimilar means to put an end to those contests which yet continued to arise in Ireland with respect to arrears of tithes. In the observations which he should make he would confine himself exclusively to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet; without going again into the plan proposed by the Government he would state what he felt with regard to the amendment, and then leave it entirely to the Committee to decide which course of proceeding they thought would be most conformable as well with the justice of the case as with the final and satisfactory settlement of the question. The right hon. Baronet had stated two points which he (Lord J. Russell) considered of minor importance, and one which he thought of very great importance with respect to the sum of money now to be advanced. The right hon. Baronet said, that the Government proposal only went the length of paying the arrears of tithes for the last two years, and that it did not include the arrears of the years 1834 and 1835. The reason of that distinction was, that when the proposal was originally submitted to the House it was stated, that only the arrears of the last two years were to be taken, and that former years were to be considered as years during which it was not likely that arrears could be collected. At the same time there were, no doubt, cases—special cases, particular and indi-
 510 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 511 l. l. l. l. l. 512 513 514 515
 Mr. Hawes  thought it very desirable that the House should come to some satisfactory arrangement of this question, now that they had the opportunity. He hoped the House would adopt the clause.
 Mr. Hume  pressed his motion, and the House divided on the original Question:—Ayes 171; Noes 43: Majority 128.
 Mr. Hume  moved, that it be omitted altogether, as being framed for the benefit of the Church of Ireland at the expense of the people of England.
 Mr. P. Howard  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Estcourt  would oppose the clause, whether the amendment he had placed on the paper were rejected or not. He was not unwilling to afford proper religious instruction to the Dissenting prisoners, for which he conceived his amendment would make full provision, but he would not go the length of adopting the hon. Member's proposition.
 Mr. Gibson  thought the case of prisoners might be legitimately exempted from the operation of the rules which governed the Legislature in reference to other classes. If the religious instruction of the Dissenting prisoners were left to voluntary efforts, they would be neglected. In other cases of peculiar exigency, as in the grants to Protestant Non-conformists and others in Ireland, Parliament had relaxed the strictness of those maxims to which it ordinarily adhered. The system which the clause would permit in this country had been already tried in Ireland, and found to produce much good. He therefore would vote for the clause.
 Mr. Redington  objected as well to the plan proposed by the right hon. Baronet opposite, as to that which the Government desired should be adopted. With regard to the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, he was convinced that it would not secure that peace for which the people of England had paid; and although he looked at both propositions as being of a nature not at all calculated to secure the desired object, yet he would choose the lesser evil, and give his support to that made by the Government. He took this opportunity of guarding himself against using any expression which might indicate that he would be satisfied by either of the plans suggested; and should this measure become the law of the land, be did not at all consider that his position as to hostility to tithes in Ireland would be altered, but,
 531
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was glad to have this opportunity of saying a few words on the subject of the suggestion which he had himself formerly made, and on which a discussion had arisen, but which many who had taken a part in the debate this evening and on former occasions appeared to have forgotten. Undoubtedly, the first proposition of the Government was not that which was now before the House. The plan which was first thrown out for consideration was, on the one hand, the extinction of the debt of 640,000 l. 532 533 l. maximum 534
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  de fended the bill, and hoped the House would allow it to pass the final stage.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the appropriation of the 640,000 l.
 Mr. Wyse  said, that if he received an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that a general inquiry into the subject of education in Scotland should take place, he would support the motion for the third reading of this bill, but otherwise he must oppose it.
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  must oppose both the clause and the amendment of which his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Estcourt) had given notice. He objected to any infringement whatever of the principle on which the Established Church was founded—that of confining the pecuniary support of the state to one particular religious denomination. At present Roman Catholic priests, as well as other Dissenting clergymen, were allowed to have access to the prisoners of their own communion. As to what might be said of the destitution of the prisoners, he apprehended that the House would not recognize the sufficiency of that plea, if set up by any class of poor persons out of doors dissenting from the Established Church in favour of a provision for their religious instruction.
 Mr. Gillon  moved, that the 6th clause, which had been struck out in Committee, be reinstated.
 Mr. Gillon  said, that late as the hour was, he felt it to be his duty to state his objections to this Bill. He objected to the way in which the money was to be raised, and he thought the only effect which such a measure could have, would be to introduce a narrow and sectarian system of education in Scotland. He also objected to the arrangements with respect to schoolmasters, and he could only say, that the bill would not satisfy those at whose instance it had been brought forward. It was a measure fraught with injustice to the Scotch Dissenters, and before such a bill was passed the Government should recollect, that it was from the Dissenters of Scotland they received their best supplies. If this measure were passed it was exceedingly doubtful whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer could carry his proposed com-
 549
 Mr. W. S. O'Brien  said, that he would discuss on their own merits the two propositions before the House, one of which declared the total abandonment of the whole arrear of the tithes, and the other, that the present arrears should be vested in the Government, to be collected, if thought necessary, but that in the meantime there should be an inquiry as to their amount. He owned that his own impres
 530 l. l. l. l.
 Sir R. Inglis  opposed the clause of the hon. Member for Knaresborough. A proposition involving the same principle stood on the paper under the name of his hon. Friend and colleague (Mr. Estcourt), but he should oppose both, on the same ground. However obligatory it might be on the conscience of individuals to provide spiritual instruction for the destitute persons of their own Church, the nation was
 493
 Sir R. Peel  rose and said, Sir, I have an amendment to propose to the clause which the noble Lord has moved should be substituted in lieu of the first clause of the bill, and which has been just read from the Chair. The noble Lord's substitute clause proposes, that the rights of all persons to tithes and compositions for tithes which have already accrued, or which may hereafter accrue, shall altogether cease and determine. The effect of this proposition would be to give a legislative extinction to all tithes, or arrears of tithes, that have already accrued. With respect to the extinction of all right to tithes which may hereafter accrue, I do not so much object to that part of the proposition, for Parliament proposes to give as a substitute in lieu thereof, a permanent and secure rent-charge. But, Sir, I very much doubt the policy of extinguishing all right to tithes which may have
 497 l. l., l., l., 498 499 l. 500 l. l. 501 l. l. l., l. l., l. l. l. 502 503 l. 504 505 506 507 508 509
 Sir R. Peel  said, that there was only one point on which he would trouble the House. He had no wish to magnify the differences between the two noble Lords, nor was his inference drawn from their conflicting arguments, but never was he more mistaken if he did not hear the noble Secretary for the Horne Department say, that "he could not concur in his (Sir R. Peel's) opinions, but that neither could he subscribe to those of his noble Friend." This was no inference drawn from conflicting sentiments, but from words actually heard.
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the noble Lord had mistaken him in supposing that he had alluded to the noble Lord in his ob-
 519 520
 Sir R. Peel  proposed, that the words at the end of the clause should be left out as follows,—"by persons having such like estates or interests in the lands charged therewith, as would make the owners thereof liable to the payment of rent-charge under the provisions of this act."
 Sir R. Peel  thought, that the Treasury, and not the Clergy, ought to bear all these expenses.
 Sir R. Peel  declared that he could not at that moment support the proposition of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, whose constant opposition to the interests of the Irish Church rendered it prudent to consider seriously before acquiescing in any motion of his on that subject. At the present moment, when the House had just decided against him, he would not decidedly say what course he would take with respect to those arrears, and would reserve to himself the power of considering hereafter whether it would not be better for the clergy of the Church of Ireland that the clause should, or should not, be excluded from the bill. He felt that it would only be fitting and just with respect to the rights of vested interests of the heads of the Irish Church, and those chiefly concerned in its welfare to consult them ere he entered into the argument on the subject. He should, therefore, as the most respectful course to them and to the House, reserve his opinion on the preservation or rejection of the whole clause till the third reading, when he should have the power of moving its omission as a matter of course. Until he had consulted the natural heads of the Church and those most deeply interested, he was not sure that they would not prefer the law remaining as it was, rather than that they should be precluded from all redress by a hasty assent to the present proposition.
 Sir R. Peel  rose merely to address himself to the only two points urged by the bon, and learned Member against his proposition. Nothing gratified him more than the fact that after all the cogitation of the hon. and learned Gentleman, he could adduce no greater difficulty to urge against it than that relating to the duties of executors. The plain answer he should give to this objection was, to state that by the ordinary operation of the law as it stands executors had the power to accept the best terms offered them. But even if it were not so, and that the difficulty urged by the hon. Gentleman really existed, what could be easier than to introduce a clause in the bill by which it would be surmounted? How the hon. Gentleman could, therefore, strain at a gnat and swallow a camel—stick at that difficulty and find no difficulty at all in obliging the executors to abandon all claim for their trusts—he might fancy but could not say. So much for the hon. Gentleman's first objection. He would now come to the second. The hon. Gentleman had said that in 1835 he proposed a certain sum in lieu of the arrears of tithes, and so far the hon. Gentleman was right. He (Sir R. Peel) had at that time a balance of 360,000 l. 541
 Mr. Clay  said, that if he were to choose
 522 523
 Viscount Howick  put it to the right hon. Baronet and to the House whether the right hon. Baronet had alluded fairly to what he said the other evening. In the first place in saying that there was a wide difference between his opinion, and that of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) the right hon. Baronet was greatly mistaken. He (Viscount Howick) thought that when the two opinions came to be closely crutinized, there would not appear any such very wide difference between them. He was certain that in all the main principles which affected this great question there was
 521
 Viscount Howick  observed, that the direct allusions contained in the latter part of the right hon. Baronet's speech, rendered it necessary that he should trouble the House with a few words in explanation of the course which he thought it his duty to take on a former evening, and which, upon further consideration, he still felt he could not justly have refrained from pursuing. The right hon. Baronet had expressed his great regret, that in the position which he had the honour to hold, he should have given utterance to opinions which the right hon. Baronet thought would have a tendency to perpetuate and increase the attacks, that might be made upon the established Church in Ireland. He knew well, from long experience, that when any Member of that House expressed his views as being in support of the feelings of a considerable
 516 517 518
 Viscount Morpeth  should simply set the Committee right on one observation of the right hon. Baronet's, that no wrong deduction might be made from it. In the bill of the right hon. Baronet, alluded to in that debate, he had abandoned all claims for arrears of tithe in Ireland; and yet the right hon. Baronet would put it on the Government to enforce them now, Was that just or fair?
 Mr. O'Connell  put in a claim on behalf of the Irish Belfast Board (of which he was a member), for that board had conducted itself best of any. It had diminished the taxation on the public, and its members asked no remuneration for their services, thus standing in proud contrast to the Trinity House.
 Mr. Wallace , as a member of the committee two years ago, begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that it was then understood that in case any new lighthouse was built they were not to follow the track of the Trinity House. He wished to know what was to become of the surplus income of Gibraltar; was it to go into the coffers of the Trinity House? It was monstrous to collect a revenue in the shape of lighthouse duty, under the name of charitable purposes.
 Mr. Wallace  did not think it would be for the advantage of the Post-office that the Chief Commissioner should have a seat in that House, and could not see, if that principle were recognized, why the members of the Board of Customs or Excise, should not also have seats. With regard to putting this office under a commission, he believed that it was absolutely necessary; he believed that the time had come when a great change must take place, and really working men be put into that department. They must no longer have the absurdity which ran through the whole establishment of the Post-office. He should most cordially support the proposition for a commission, however much he might object to some of the details.
 Mr. Wallace  thought the salary of the Secretary might be added, but if the question came to a division, he should certainly vote with the hon. Member for Lincoln.
 Captain Boldero  said, that the sum of 5,000 l. l.
 Lord John Russell  said, that the House he was sure, would feel itself much indebted to the Speaker for the anxiety with which he had attended to the protection of their privileges. He agreed entirely with the right hon. Gentleman, that in cases of bills of this description, in which taxation was not the sole but rather an incidental object, any latitude consistent with the due observance of the privileges of this House should be allowed to the
 577 578 l. l. in limine, 579 580
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that he had rather an important alteration to propose with regard to this clause. A very proper insertion had been made by the House of Lords, for the purpose of giving any one commissioner the power of acting for the board and making general rules; for there might be cases, as there had already been cases in this country, in which it would be very useful if the commissioners
 581
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the clause. The mode of admeasurement by the crow's flight or mathematical line was preferable, and was that which should be adopted, and such was the decision of the present Baron Foster, of the Irish bench, and also the opinion of Mr. Thesiger, which he considered quite equal to that of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, or of any other Member of the profession. He would move the insertion of a clause in accordance with this view.
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the motion, because he thought it inconvenient to discuss a bill effecting a great change in one
 583 l.
 Colonel Sibthorp  said, he saw no reason why the aggregate salaries of the Commissioners should exceed the sum paid at present to the Postmaster-general, and he had resolved to move accordingly, and take the sense of the House upon it.
 Colonel Sibthorp  agreed with the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that there was no necessity of having a gentleman sitting at the elbow of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as a representative of a public office, merely to answer questions, to which, judging from past experience, as regarded Her Majesty's present Ministers, they would in all probability get very unsatisfactory answers.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that was not the time to discuss the rival merits of their lighthouse Boards. The Trinity House, however, had been proved before the Lighthouse committee to have conducted itself with great propriety; and a bill had been passed last Session, giving it additional powers. He did not think the board deserved the censure which had been heaped upon it. Now, with respect to the clause in question, his hon. Friend had asked why put this lighthouse under the Trinity House? The reason for doing so was, because Parliament decided two years ago that lighthouses should be put under that body, and the proposal now made was merely following out the precedent laid down in the case of Heligoland. His hon. Friend then objected to the toll, and said there was a surplus revenue at Gibraltar. If so it was carried to the account of the public, and therefore paying this charge out of the surplus revenue would be nothing more than making a charge on the public of the sum necessary to keep up this light. His hon. Friend in this was contending for the principle of all lights being paid by the country, on which principle the House did not agree with the hon. Member. The hon. Member said this was a mere trifle. He was perfectly aware of that. The country had erected the lighthouse, and all that was required was a small sum for the annual expense of maintaining it. The shipping interest were willing to pay these dues, and he had introduced the Bill at their request and with their sanction. He hoped the House would agree to the charge in the manner suggested.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the change proposed by the bill called for some statement from the Government to justify it. If it were intended to appoint the commissioners for life, he should certainly object to such a proposition.
 Mr. Labouchere  again denied, that he had said anything disparaging of Sir F. Freeling, and asserted, that in anything he had said, he had not the slightest intention of reflecting for a moment on his memory. He did not make the remotest charge against him, and he believed, that the Post-office and the public had derived benefit from his services.
 Mr. Labouchere  said, the present system of administering the Post-office, was a most vicious one, and had been condemned by every man who had paid any attention to the subject. The best system for the management of the Post-office, in his view, would be to place it under the
 585 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Labouchere  hoped, that the House would agree to this clause, which he thought was the most essential part of the bill.
 Mr. Labouchere  explained: He had
 586
 Mr. Warburton  thought it would be a great improvement to issue a temporary commission for two or three years, to superintend the great changes now taking place in our internal system of communication, and to prevent the Post-office from becoming exclusively a revenue department, instead of a great public engine for facilitating and increasing the intercourse between various parts of the country. No Administration could hold place which resisted the demands of the public for a speedier and cheaper system of conveying letters.
 Mr. Warburton  said, the Trinity House had come badly out of the inquiry on the subject of lighthouses. Why then was it to be selected for the purpose of superintending the Gibraltar lighthouse. The Ballast Board in Ireland and the Northern lighthouse commissioners went upon the regular and proper principle of apportioning their revenue to the actual cost of the lighthouses. Let one of these boards, then be chosen. He should support the motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny.
 The Speaker  said, that before the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) took up the consideration of the amendments to the present bill he owed it to himself to make a few observations to the House on the subject. The House was no doubt aware that when amendments were made in any bill sent up to the House of Lords which were considered at all likely to be an in-
 576
 Mr. Hume  said, that Gibraltar, since its capture, had been a free port, and the effect of the Bill would be to destroy that. He would put it to the House whether, for the sake of a paltry shilling, it would adopt such a clause. He wished to see the lighthouse erected, but he thought its
 573
 Mr. Hume  objected to the tax of one shilling upon all vessels passing Gibraltar being imposed. This country allowed 250,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that when the Bill was originally introduced, he strongly pressed his objection to this clause. He did not see the utility, much less the necessity of it, feeling as he did, that the time of the commissioner would be much better
 589
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, according to the proposed plan, there was a necessity to have a Member in that House to represent the office.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the Government could not fairly be accused of introducing this bill from a desire of patronage, for their object was to make a change the necessity for which had been long felt. So long ago as in 1797, under Mr. Pitt's Government, the change now proposed had been recommended, and the consolidation of the Scotch and Irish post-offices with the English Post-office since that period made the change more requisite. Under Lord Liverpool's Government, too, a report in favour of this change was presented by the commission of which Lord Wallace was the head. He quite concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that the head commissioner should not be a permanent officer, the great object being to obtain Parliamentary responsibility. But the other two commissioners should be permanent, in the same manner as the subordinate commissioners of the Woods and Forests, or the official under secretaries of state for the various departments. A more effective system of post-office administration was absolutely necessary. As an authority on this subject he might quote the Duke of Richmond. If ever there was an individual qualified to give perfect satisfaction as Postmaster-General, it was the Duke of Richmond; and yet, notwithstanding the great energy of mind and assiduity of application which ho brought to the office,
 584
 The Attorney-General  moved the third reading of the Registration of Electors Bill. Bill read a third time. The hon. and learned Gentleman then said, he had framed a clause, with respect to the admeasurement of distances, which he had communicated to the hon. Member for Aylesbury, who thought it was one in which both sides of the House would concur. Lord Ellenborough and the Court of King's Bench had decided, that the distance should be measured by the nearest road, and this House had done the same. There were three legislative enactments and two judicial decisions recognizing the propriety of the mode of admeasurement by the nearest road, by land or water. There were many difficulties and inconveniences attending the mode of admeasurement by a mathematical line or crow's flight, all of which would be obviated by the addition of the clause which he proposed to introduce, It would also remove all doubt and uncertainty about the state of the law, and put an end to conflicting decisions. The hon. and learned Gentleman concluded by moving the addition of a clause to the effect, that in all cases in which it shall be necessary to compute the distance of seven miles from the borough to the voter's residence, such computation, shall be made by the nearest road, by land or water.
 Sir J. Hobhouse  feared that his duty would not permit him to give any other answer than that he had already given. He had admitted the facts mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, and he trusted when the proper time arrived that Parliament and the public would think the Governor-general of India perfectly justified in the course he had taken.
 Sir J. Hobhouse  had to state, that it was undoubtedly true that a small expedition had by this time at least sailed from Bombay for the head of the Persian Gulf, consisting of a frigate, a brig, two steamers, and a Government transport, having on board about 500 sepoys, commanded by the gallant officer named by the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman had stated what would be the result, supposing certain orders to have been given. He could only inform the right hon. Gentleman that the expedition had been sent to that quarter in consequence of a despatch received from the Governor-general of India by the Governor of Bombay, in which was stated the reason why the Governor-general thought it advisable to send such an expedition. The right hon. Gentleman knew that the East India Company had a resident at Bushire; he knew also that they had a resident at Bagdad he knew
 575
 Sir R. Inglis  defended the memory of the late Secretary of the Post-office from the aspersion cast upon it by the right hon. Gentleman. He thought that respect to his memory would have been sufficient to ward off their attacks, and he regretted that more good feelings had not been evinced than to make them. There was no department of the public service better managed than the Post-office under Sir F. Freeling, and the public had never a better servant.
 Sir R. Peel  was not content to rest this question entirely upon authority. The Duke of Richmond had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman as a high authority—the man of all others best fitted to administer the Post-office department; and yet what course had the noble Duke taken with respect to this very bill? When it reached the House of Lords last year, he gave it his most decided opposition. Then the right hon. Gentleman cited the commission of 1797, which reported in favour of the principle of this bill; but if Mr. Pitt approved of it, why did he not adopt it? Why had the successive Governments since that time not carried the principle into effect? The right hon. Gentleman's reference to authority upon this matter had not the slightest weight or applicability. If it was thought necessary to have a Parliamentary officer with a seat in that House, instead of the Postmaster-General, why was the same principle not to be applied to the other revenue boards of Customs and Excise? At present the Post-office was administered by a political officer—the Postmaster-General, with a salary of 2,500 l. l., l. l. l.,
 Sir R. Peel  thought that the reasons, upon the whole, preponderated in favour of the head-commissioner being a Member of the House of Commons.
 Sir R. Peel  was ready to take the sense of the House as to whether there should be any commissioners; but if there were to be commissioners, he would maintain that they ought to be sufficiently remunerated; he therefore could not support the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Lincoln, because, though perfectly ready to determine that the conduct in chief of the Post-office should be vested in an individual, he was unwilling to seek the attainment of that object indirectly. If the House resolved that there should be commissioners, he thought their remuneration ought to equal that of other commissioners placed at the head of public departments; he should therefore recommend that the Chief Commissioner have 2,000 l. l.,
 Sir Stratford Canning  was satisfied with the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had answered his question, but he had one doubt remaining, which it was desirable to have removed. He did not think it was clear from the answer of the right hon. Gentleman whether the expedition was sent merely for general purposes, or with a specific object. Of course, if it ha no specific object, any apprehension wh h might be entertained of an immediate change in the character of our relations with Persia would vanish. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would consider himself at liberty to satisfy his doubts on this point.
 Sir Stratford Canning  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, the president of the Board of Control, and he was much mistaken if the right hon. Gentleman would not willingly embrace the opportunity of affording information to the public on a point of considerable importance, particularly to the commercial interests of the country. It had been known to commercial men for some days, that an expedition composed of several armed vessels, and having on board a body of 500 or 600 men, commanded by Colonel Sherriff, had sailed from Bombay to the Persian Gulf. The only conceivable object of such an expedition must have reference to Bushire, the most important port belonging to Persia on the Persian Gulf, or to the island of Karak, in the neighbourhood of that place. As both belonged to Persia, it was obvious that an expedition sent with the view of taking possession of any of those places must involve us in hostilities with that power. It was therefore very important to those who were connected with the trade of the country to know if the expedition was directed to objects of a kind likely to be attended with that consequence.
 Lord Ingestrie  fully subscribed to the doctrine, that it Was fit and proper that the son of a deserving officer should derive some benefit in consideration of the services of his father. Entertaining that feeling, he could not abstain from expressing his regret, that the son of Commodore Bathurst, who fell at Navarino, had not yet been promoted. He mentioned the subject thus publicly on the present occasion in the hope that it would attract the attention of the Lords of the Admiralty, and induce them not longer to overlook the claims of an officer whose father deserved so well of his country.
 Captain Gordon  did not intend to detain the House by entering into any discussion
 602
 Mr. C. Wood  said, he did not intend to follow his hon. and gallant Friend through the various details which he had given, and which he (Mr. C. Wood) must say the hon. and gallant Gentleman had contrived to misrepresent most completely; of course it was undesignedly, but so it happened, that the hon. and gallant officer had most ingeniously misrepresented the whole state of the case in reference to every class of officers. Now, his reason for opposing the motion was this—early this Session a commission was appointed to take this very subject under their con-
 594 non sequitur 595 596
 Sir Henry Hardinge  had always objected to the House of Commons being made a court of appeal either by the army or navy. If the officers in either service had a grievance to complain of, it was to the Sovereign that they ought to look for redress. It was true, that there might be exceptions; there might be particular cases sufficiently strong to induce the House to take them into consideration; but he confessed he had heard nothing in the debate of that evening which would induce him to depart from the general rule upon which he had always acted since he had been a Member of that House, namely, to object to any motion the effect of which would be to make the House of Commons a court of appeal from the army or navy. Therefore, if the present question should go to a division, he should certainly divide against the gallant Admiral. As far as the gallant Admiral's motion related to the promotion of naval officers, he certainly did not see that there
 603
 Mr. Warburton  entirely dissented from the doctrine laid down by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) that those who filled high places should be ever forward, nay, that they should consider it their duty, to heap promotion and honour upon their relatives.
 Mr. Hume  contended that the gallant Admiral had not said that officers ought not to be removed for conduct unbecoming the character of men of honour and of gentlemen; but that they ought to have some security that they would not be removed if their characters were such as not to deserve so severe a punishment. The practice ought to be the same in each branch of the service, and no officer ought to be removed without a full and fair trial. By the returns for which he had moved, it appeared that within a given period no less a number than 1,000 officers of the army had been struck off the list, and a large number, also, of officers of the navy had been removed without any inquiry. How many officers might there not be who had been placed in a similar situation with Mr. Booth, but who, from less fortunate circumstances, had not been able—they being equally innocent—to obtain from their commanding officer that explanation which Lord Exmouth was entitled to give with respect to that case. Let the House also look to the extreme discontent which prevailed in
 599 No, no. T. Troubridge hon. Members
 Admiral Adam  thought, that if any fault had been committed by the Board of Admiralty of late years, it was in the promotion of too many old officers, instead of young ones. It was absolutely necessary for the benefit and well-being of the service, that a certain portion of young blood should be constantly infused into the list of officers. This was necessary to maintain the efficiency of the service; and it was a necessity that must be observed even though many good and gallant officers should be passed over. With respect to the distribution of the order of the Bath, of which the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton complained as being much too restricted, he (Admiral Adam) could only state, that the Admiralty had sedulously adhered to the number fixed not long since in a message from the Crown.
 Sir E. Codrington  inquired why, if sons were to benefit from the merits of the father, the son of Commodore Bathurst, who was killed at Navarino, had been overlooked?
 Sir Edward Codrington  begged to state, that if he had really fallen into any misstatements, it was because the information for which he had moved, and which was necessary to a correct view of the whole case, had been withheld from him.
 Sir E. Codrington  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House, to the injustice done to the officers of the navy compared to those of the other branches of the public service. He was aware that this was a subject, that had hitherto not been listened to by the House very favourably, but he hoped the time was not far distant when it would be attentively considered. The Parliament would be forced to take it up, for at present the navy was in a most inefficient state. If there were any occasion to no equip a large fleet such was the condition of our ships, and such the destitution of our dock yards, that he did not think, we could send ten sail of the line to sea. But his object was to call the attention of the House to the naval as compared to the civil department. A good deal had been said upon the discussion of the Pension List, about the taking away of pensions, that had been hardly earned. Those observations ought to be applied to the naval profession. There was not any department of the service of the country in which persons were required to perform more duties than in the navy. Now in order to show the injustice done to the navy, he would state that an Admiral's hail-pay was 376 l. s; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. 592 l. l. l. s. l. l. d. l. l. d. s. 593
 Sir E. T. Troubridge  had intended to have replied to the statement made by the gallant Officer who brought forward the present motion; but the manner in which the hon. Member for Kilkenny had alluded to the promotion of his son totally unfitted him for the task. It was painful, very painful, for him to be placed in the situation in which he then stood; but he had the satisfaction of feeling, from what had already occurred, that the House, and he hoped the country also, would agree in the sentiments so kindly expressed by the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) opposite. He believed also (and this was a great additional consolation to him) that the sentiments so handsomely expressed were shared by a large portion of his fellow-officers. He had had the satisfaction of hearing from many even of those who had been so disappointed in their own promotion, that they had not a word to say against the advancement of the grandson of two Admirals. More than this he could not say. He had come down to the House prepared to speak upon many points involved in the gallant Admiral's motion; but the remark of the hon. Member for Kilkenny took him by surprise, and he confessed he had never felt more overcome in his life.
 Captain Pechell  considered the gallant Admiral entitled to the thanks of the naval profession for having so repeatedly and manfully brought this subject under the notice and consideration of the House; and he must say, that he thought it extremely discourteous on the part of the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty (Mr. C. Wood), to have accused his gallant friend of misrepresentation. He begged to deny that the subject now before the House had any connection whatever with the inquiry now going on before the commission alluded to. Far he it from him to undervalue or depreciate the services of the officers of the army; all he wanted was, in common with the gallant Admiral, that the officers of the navy and army should be placed, in every respect, on the same footing. Such unfortunately was not the case. In the case of a shipwreck or damage to a man-of-war, if an officer's furniture or property were lost or destroyed, he received no compensation; while, if a similar accident occurred to a transport, with troops on board, the officers were indemnified. He would also contend that the principle laid down by his late Majesty had recently been departed from, because William 4th. had been desirous to afford to the officers of the navy their fair share of public appointments. Such, however, was not the case now. Let hon. Gentlemen look to the brevet put forth in consequence of the coronation, and they would find that while there was a column of names of officers in the East-India Company's service, who were nominated to the order of the Bath, there were only the names of six naval officers added to the inferior grade of the order, and only two admirals, gazetted for the riband. He had always stood up in that House, and always would stand up, to defend the interests of that much-abused class of officers—the mates and midshipmen of the navy. He thought their claims ought to have been a subject of inquiry by the commission on the pay and promotion, &c., of the army, the navy and marines; and he should have been glad to see one of the body of mates nominated as a member of that commission—No doubt this might appear an extraordinary proposition, but at least it was not more extraordinary than, that a cornet of dragoons, which was the case at no distant period, should be a Lord of the Admiralty. The House would, perhaps, recollect that a few nights ago he had
 598 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
 Captain Pechell , alluding to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Kilkenny, with respect to the recent promotion of the son of the gallant Officer below him, begged to state, that that promotion was most gratifying to the whole of the navy, to whom the name of Troubridge was endeared by a thousand recollections. He was satisfied, that the oldest officer who had been passed over would look with pride rather than with envy upon the promotion of the young officer to whom the hon. Member for Kilkenny had so inopportunely alluded.
 Sir James Graham  had not intended to have taken any part in the present discussion, and, certainly, should not have done so but for the unjust and ill-timed remark of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. It was well known, that he differed widely in politics from the gallant officer (Sir T. Troubridge) who sat opposite, yet, he must say, that, he could hardly suppress his feelings when he heard the promotion of that gallant Officer's son impugned. He dissented from the doctrine, that the service or the father was not to operate favourably in the consideration of the son. He thought, that the sons of all meritorious officers ought to be favourably regarded. But, in the present instance, the officer promoted was the son of an admiral who had served with great distinction, and the grandson of an admiral who, in the naval annals of the country, had gained immortal fame. Was it too much that some testimony should be borne to the gallant and honoured name of Troubridge by the promotion of a young officer who stood as high as any in his profession, and who deserved well of his country if it were only from the recollection of the actions of his forefathers? He declared, that he should have thought Lord Minto guilty of a gross dereliction of duty if, because the father (Sir E. T. Troubridge) sat at the same board with himself, he had shrunk from the duty of promoting the son. He would even go further, and say, that in every instance the Lords of the Admiralty having sons of their own reared up in the profession, and thoroughly conversant with its duties, would be fully justified in giving to those sons all the benefit of their high station. One other remark had been made by the hon. Member for Kilkenny to which he also wished to refer. The hon. Member stated, upon what authority he did not know, that if five line-of-battle
 601
 Mr. M. J. O'Connell : Although he agreed in most of the sentiments of the hon. Member for Sheffield, yet, as an Irish representative, and a well-wisher to Ireland, he felt justified in voting for the third reading of this bill; and he did so on this simple principle, that whilst he believed it would effect great temporary good, no future mischief could possibly result from it. He owned he was surprised at the charge of inconsistency launched, not only against her Majesty's Ministers, but against a large body of their supporters, on the ground of their having abandoned the appropriation principle. And he must complain, that his hon. Friend, the Member for Kilkenny, had not quoted correctly the resolution of 1835. His hon. Friend read the words as if they ran, "no settlement can take place;" whereas they really were, that "no final and satisfactory settlement could be arrived at, which did not involve the principle of appropriation. Now, did any Member of her Majesty's Government, did any Member at this side of the House, or did the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir R. Peel) pretend that the present proposal was meant as a "final and satisfactory" adjustment of
 661 "Of the three hundred grant but three
To make a new Thermopylæ." Scrub 662 663 "December 6, 1735. Petition complaining of the new demand for agistment tithes referred to a Committee, who on the 22d December reported 'that the allegations were proved. "March 5, 1735 (O. S.). Petition of Samuel Low and others, also referred to a committee, and, on the 18th March, report made, 'that the petitioners have fully proved the allegations of their petition to the satisfaction of the Committee, and deserve the strongest assistance the House can give them." "That the commencing suits upon these new demands must impair the Protestant interest, by driving many useful hands out of this kingdom; must disable those that remain to support his Majesty's establishment, and occasion popery and infidelity to gain ground, by the contest that must necessarily arise between the clergy and laity"— nemine contradicente, "That an humble address be presented to his Majesty, setting forth, that the reversal of the outlawries of persons attainted for treason in the rebellions of 1641 and 1688, or the enabling any of them, or their descendants, to sue those Protestants who have purchased estates forfeited by those rebels under several Acts of Parliament, will be dangerous to his Majesty's person and Government, and the succession in his royal house, and highly prejudicial to the Protestant interest of this kingdom." "The Rev. Charles Le Poer Trench, rector, Dunleer Union, diocese Armagh, 531 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. 664 l. s. d. "Rev. Charles Cobbe Beresford, rector of Termon M'Guiske, diocese of Armagh, 1,267 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. "Rev. William Athill, rector of Findouagh, diocese of Clogher, 828 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. 665
 Lord Stanley  said, that the charge which his right hon. Friend beside him had made against the hon. and learned Gentleman and those with whom he acted was, that it was easy for them to state
 679 l., l. No, no! Harvey 680 681 682 683 684
 Mr. O'Connell  would only trespass a few moments upon the attention of the House. He confessed, that he had seldom experienced greater pleasure than he had done in listening to the speech of the noble Lord, not on account of the mental power which it displayed, for that to the noble Lord was easy, but because the noble Lord and he were at length perfectly agreed, that the present system of tithes in Ireland, could not be maintained; for it was a fact beyond doubt, that tithes could not remain as they now were: there was something in them so anomalous, so inconsistent with policy, and with a statesmanlike view of Government, that an experiment was at length to be made to maintain tranquillity, and to improve the system. So far they were agreed. But he did not think, that the noble Lord's Jewish simile was at all applicable. It was not to the debt, but to the purposes to which it was applied, that the Irish objected. Tithes were not like a personal debt, like that mentioned by the noble Lord: they were a debt which the Catholic ancestors of the Irish people bequeathed to the Catholic Church. The Catholics of Ireland gave the tithes for Catholic purposes, when even the name of Protestant was not known; but an Act of Parliament took them away from the Catholics, and gave them to a small minority of Protestants for Protestant purposes; and it was on account of the comparatively small portion of those to whom they were devoted, coupled with the recollection, which would
 685 686 l., 687 688
 Lord J. Russell  should not think it necessary, seeing the great impatience of the House, to restate the opinions which he had stated on a former occasion upon this question. He must say, that the opposition made to the present bill, and the various reasons given by hon. Gentlemen for rejecting the bill, had failed to convince him, that the course taken by the Government was not the most expedient, that they could pursue. Although the hon. Member for Southwark had found fault with him for saying,—not, by the by, quoting him correctly—that it was easy for persons having no responsibility to object to any measure, that might be brought forward, yet, he must say, that the whole of his speech convinced him further, that it was very easy for a person of ingenuity to make objections to a bill, and to show, that it was contrary to the ordinary principles on which legislation was founded, and yet there might be no better course for Government or Parliament to pursue. Some hon. Gentlemen were in favour of the voluntary principle, and others called for the total extinction of tithes, but it could not be expected, that either Government or the majority of that House would pursue either course. Again, they had been reproached with not following up the appropriation clause for the benefit of all classes in Ireland who would receive religious instruction. That course might, no doubt, have been adopted by Government. But would any of those Gentlemen who reproached him for not taking this course venture to say, that he thought a bill containing that clause was likely to be passed, or was likely to attain the object of establishing that principle in the statute book? The question was between doing nothing whatever, not moving a single step towards removing the evils, that existed in Ireland, on this subject of tithes, and adopting a bill to which the Legislature might be brought to agree, a bill like that before the House. He must say, that the person who would ask them to rest without producing any measure would fail to convince him, that that was the right course, for it was one from which no
 690 691 692 693
 Lord J. Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Tithes (Ireland) Bill.
 Major Bryan  said, he did not think this measure would satisfy the people of Ireland, although it might for a short time procure tranquility.
 Mr. Harvey  said, that the right hon. Baronet had made two sweeping charges against those who opposed the bill, which it appeared to him incumbent on those who thought of it as he did to notice. It was a favourite remark, not only of the right hon. Baronet but also of the noble Lord the Member for Stroud (Lord J. Russell), that it was very easy for hon. Members to deal in general and
 675 R. Peel: 676 R. Peel: l. l. 677 678 l.,
 Mr. Harvey  said, that he could not allow the statement which had been made by so high an authority as the noble Lord (Stanley) with reference to the observations which he had addressed to the House that evening to pass uncontradicted. The noble Lord had imputed to him an ignorance of the subject before the House, because he had said, that the arrears due to the tithe-owners in Ireland during the four years preceding the present might amount to 2,400,000 l. l. l. 697
 Mr. Baines  said, that the answer was perfectly satisfactory.
 Mr. Baines  had some questions to put to the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control upon a subject which involved the character and honour of this country. He had given notice of his intention to put those questions some months before, but had never had an opportunity. They concerned he thought the honour of the East-India Company. His first question was, whether, in the year 1833, there had not been sent out to India an instruction to the following effect, namely, "that the interference of British functionaries in the interior management of native temples, in the customs, habits, and religious proceedings of their priests and attendants, in the arrangement of their ceremonies, rites, and festivals, and generally in the economy of heathen worship, shall cease; that the pilgrim-tax shall be everywhere abolished; and that, in all matters relating to their temples, their worship, their festivals, and their religious practices, the native subjects be left entirely to themselves"? The next question was, whether, although five years had now elapsed since the instruction went out, it had not been uniformly disobeyed? The next inquiry was, how it was, that no attention had been paid to the instruction, since it was so strict and imperative? The next inquiry was, whether any further order had been sent out to enforce the first order, and, if so, what was its date? Lastly he wished to know whether there would be any objection to place on the table a copy of the last order, and whether any measures had been taken to enforce it, so that for the future the people of this country might have some ground upon which they might rely, to hope that the grievance complained of would be redressed?
 Mr. Grote  did not feel justified in giving his vote without stating, in a very few words, the reasons which induced him to give his support to the amendment. He knew it was quite impossible to say anything new on the question of Irish tithes; and if there was any novelty in the present debate, it was owing to the discrepancy which was to be traced between the premises and the conclusions of the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken in support of this bill. He was quite sure it was impossible to make a more convincing or effective speech than that delivered by the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, and by what means he brought himself to support a measure from which he stated his conviction it was impossible to derive any good, was more than he could imagine. The noble Lord, the Member for North Devonshire, too, prophesied the entire failure of this measure. It would, he said, be the means of transferring the payment of tithes from the weaker class to the more powerful, and he anticipated from the change only increased odium to the existing constitution of the Irish Church. Now, he disapproved of the Irish Church as much as any man could do; he had been as unreserved as any man could be in the expression of his abhorrence of the monstrous principle, and the equally monstrous effects of that establishment, yet he must say, that if he believed, that the indirect effect of a bill, and not intended by those who proposed it, was to produce increased hostility to the Establishment, he should not, for that reason, be willing to give it his support, if to the principles contained in it he had a conscientious objection. Very possibly this bill might
 659 660
 Mr. Hume  rose to move that the 38th clause be excluded from the Bill, on the ground of the purposes to which it appropriated various sums of money, amounting to nearly one million sterling. He was pleased at the discussion which had taken place on the bill that evening, as it would enable the people of England to see the reasons on which this money was to be voted away. The noble Lord opposite had told them that night that he had adopted the principle of expediency, because he saw no other principle on which he could support this measure. He begged to call the attention of the noble Lord to the fact that it was not to the amount of the money that the people of England would object, but to the purposes for which, according to this clause of the bill, that money was to be applied. When the noble Lord himself, on a former occasion, brought forward a measure for the reform of the Irish Church, he (Mr. Hume) and others supported it, because it provided for the abolition of the sinecures of that Church. All their hostility was directed against the system on which that Church was supported, and not against the Church itself. What they objected to was the principle that the Establishment should be maintained as a dominant Church in Ireland—and they looked upon the payment of this money as a sort of payment of black mail. Were they, as guardians of the public purse, doing their duty in consenting to it? It was pledging the Treasury to the payment of a million more in addition to the existing deficit of the revenue, which was sufficiently great without any further addition to it. The noble Lord had said that the hon. Member for Southwark was mistaken as to the amount of the arrears, and that only one quarter of them
 696
 Mr. Hume  seconded the amendment. He maintained still, as he had always done, that no attempts to settle the tithe question in Ireland could be successful which did not include the principle of the appropriation of its surplus revenues. Divested of this principle the present bill must prove a mere delusion.
 Mr. D. Browne  rose, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, to move, that the bill be read that day six months. He threw himself upon the indulgence of the House, and he hoped that it would grant to him its attention for a very short period. In the first place, he seldom intruded upon it; and, secondly, he was forced to do so by a conscientious conviction that he had a public duty to perform, from which he could not shrink, by the wish of his constituents, and by that distinct expression of public opinion throughout Ireland, which forced upon the minds of all the representatives from that country a far
 649 650 petitio principii 651 sine quâ non 652 "He could not propose to that House to agree to certain amendments, because a large majority of the other House did not agree to their propositions. He knew full well on another subject, now a matter of history, on the matter of the contest between this country and America, from its beginning those who contended for justice to America, were scarcely at any time more than a fourth part of that House. He had been told by a near relative of his own, that he divided with Lord Chatham when there were only four persons in the House, who so divided in favour of conciliatory measures. It was not, therefore, because there were large majorities in favour of a system, that the House ought to yield to such majorities. He was sure, if the House of Commons should, as it did in the American war, concur in acts of oppression and misrule in respect to Ireland, they would, in the end, be compelled to avow, that their measures had been inefficacious, and endeavour again to repair their error by a tardy, and perhaps ineffectual submission. Let the House, however, reject those measures, and it would be to the people of Ireland what this assembly ought to be." 653 654 s. s. s. s. s. 655 l. Te Deum 656
 Mr. Ward  said, that parties were of no value in the State unless they persisted in carrying out the great principles by which they had been united; and he regretted to see the noble Lord, who deservedly stood so high in the country, giving his sanction to such a measure as the present, and which he, for one, could never consent to. He agreed with the noble Lord, the Secretary of War, that palliatives could never avail; and though he had supported the appropriation principle, from a belief that it was calculated to conciliate the support of all parties in this country, one advantage was to be gained from its present abandonment—
 657
 Mr. Easthope  said, that, before the bill passed, he wished to enter his protest against the language which had been held against those who opposed the bill as it was introduced to the House. Those who had taken an interest against the bill had been represented as a set of men who desired to appropriate the Post office revenues to their own uses. The proprietors of railways had been held forth as a set of rapacious adventurers, reckless of all principles of justice and fair dealing. He felt particular regret, that any one connected with the Government of the country should have sanctioned such a tone as this. No desires or feelings of this character actuated the individuals who were so grossly maligned. Parties connected with railway interests were held forth to the public as though on their trial; and, forsooth, on their trial for what? For promoting at their own risk great national undertakings, of the value and public utility of which there were now pot two
 699 700 701
 Sir J. Hobhouse  said, that before he gave an answer to the questions that had
 647 648
 Sir R. Peel  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to think, that he had expressed an opinion favourable to the introduction of the optional clause. He had done no such thing. There was the alternative of leaving the law as it stood, and abandoning the present grant, or of accepting the grant, and he preferred the latter course. Of course the other branch of the Legislature, in which the
 689
 Sir R. Peel  said, the question we are now called on to discuss is this—whether we ought to vote for the third reading of this bill, or whether we should consent to the amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Mayo. That amendment proposes to postpone the bill for the period of six months, and this is, in my mind, tantamount to a declaration, that the attempt that has been made for the settlement of the tithe question has altogether failed, and that there is no prospect whatever of our coming to an agreement upon any satisfactory principle upon which the future settlement of the tithe question can be made. This appears to me to be the effect of the amendment proposed to the House, and the proposition which this House would affirm by adopting that amendment. Now, then, Sir, the bill before the House contains two enactments, in both of which I concur. In the first place I fully concur in the future conversion of the tithe into a rent-charge. In the next place I fully confer in the transfer of the pecuniary burthen of tithe from the occupiers, who, in general, are Roman Catholics, to the proprietors and landlords, who, in general, are of the Protestant persuasion. I concur also—and concur most fully—in that enactment of the present bill, which sets at rest—and sets at rest for ever—the whole question of arrears; and so far as the operation of the bill is concerned, I think that setting aside the question of arrears, which might remain as an element of discontent, is, in itself, a very great advantage. Entertaining, then, those opinions with respect to the present bill, I find it impossible to assent to the proposition of the hon. Member for Mayo. Now, let me ask the House, if we consented to take that course, what would be the consequence? Why, this—if we rejected this bill, we should leave the tithe question not only in the state in which it has been for the last five years, but in even a far worse state; for, after the declaration of Parliament, rejecting
 666 667 668 l. 669 l. 670 l. l. 671 l. 672 Hume: 673 674
 Sir W. Somerville  said, that the objections of the Roman Catholics to tithes did not so much rest on the amount of the sum which was levied from them in the shape of a tax, as on their conscientious abhorrence of contributing to the support of a Church from which they dissented. He asked whether this bill would not be the means of appropriating twenty-five per cent. of the Church revenue in the very worst manner in which it could be appropriated, namely, by putting it into the pockets of the landlords? Why not apply this surplus of twenty-five per cent. which the bill proved they had at their disposal to the object of satisfying the wants of the people under the Poor-law Bill? There never was a more unjust anomaly than that which the present state of the Irish Church presented. He knew an excellent man—a clergyman in his own neighbourhood—who had to serve his own tithe processes on his Catholic parishioners, who amounted to thousands, whilst the Protestants numbered only six. He firmly believes, that this measure, even as a palliative, would fail; and he frankly avowed that, believing as he did that there never would be peace, tranquillity, or happiness, in Ireland until the Church was placed on its proper footing, he should assist his fellow-countrymen by every means in his power in their efforts to get rid of this monstrous burden. Why should he struggle for the Irish Church as it at present stood, when he knew that, looking at it in a political point of view, it had endangered the union between the two countries, and in its social effects it had disorganised the whole frame of society. Then, as to its religious character, he firmly believed, as a Protestant, that if the Legislature had contrived a plan to prevent the spread of Protestantism, they could not have hit upon any instrument more effectual for their purpose than this Established Church, which had not at the present time, and never had, a parallel in the civilised world. Unless this question was settled in the manner
 658
 Viscount Ebrington  had ever considered that the existence of a Church Establishment in Ireland so disproportionate to the wants of the community was a stain and a disgrace on the institutions of the country; and he should have found great difficulty in bringing himself to support the measure if he thought that it would tend to prevent that reduction of the Church Establishment which at no very distant period he hoped to see accomplished. With respect to the principle of appropriation, if in the present state of things he saw any prospect of carrying that principle into operation—no consideration should induce him to acquiesce in a bill which did not include it. But if the struggle against tithes were still to go on, notwithstanding this bill, the burden would be on the shoulders of those who were much better able to bear it, and who, he hoped, would carry on the war with effect. He should support this measure, therefore, not as the best which he could wish to be carried into effect, but as the best which the present state of parties held out a hope of obtaining.
 Mr. Ormsby Gorei  n seconding the resolution, said, he hoped the Government, if they had it in contemplation to renew the charter of the Bank of Ireland, would recollect the circumstances under which that charter had been originally granted. It was antecedent to the Legislature of Ireland becoming part of that of England; and in consequence it was considered necessary that Ireland should, as England had, have a national bank. But since the Act of Union had passed, what necessity could be imagined for two national banks?
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that if the noble Lord had proposed a distinct vote, he (Mr. O'Connell) should have been exceedingly anxious to second him, but as that could not be done consistently with the usages of the House, he must only content himself with pressing on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to accede o the enlargement of the vote. The right hon. Gentleman, of course, ought to be as chary of the public money as of that of individuals; but he could tell the right hon. Gentleman, that there was no portion of that public which would not hear of the increased grant with gladness. They were assembled there to represent every grade and variety of public opinion, but he believed there was no man on either side unrestrained by official duty who would be afraid to answer to his constituents for voting in favour of this grant. The only objection that could be urged to the proposed increase was, that it would be creating an inconvenient precedent by encouraging exiles for political opinions. Why the last century afforded several preceof that kind, and was Poland—the land to which the poet alluded in the bautiful lines—
 "Sarmatia fell unwept without a crime." l. 733
 Mr. Dennison  thought, that when the cause in which these men suffered, was considered—when the depth of their misery and the resignation with which they endured it was borne in mind—there could be no stronger grounds for a liberal grant of money than those which their claims possessed upon the sympathies of a
 736
 Mr. Wallace  said, the Church of England had been the curse of Ireland, and would be the curse of the Canadas if established there.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, it was highly improper and impolitic to try to establish a religion in Canada, in opposition to and contrary to the wishes and feelings of the people. He wished the Church of England to be maintained, and properly maintained, wherever people belonging to that sect were to be found in any country on the face of the globe; but were the people of England to be taxed, on the ground of there being spiritual destitution in Canada,
 740
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the part of the vote to which he had the strongest objection was that in which it was proposed to pay 1,000 l. l. l. 741 l. 742
 Mr. O'Connell  said, the noble Lord had made a personal attack on him, which
 743 The Standard,
 Mr. O'Connell : Never! He had recommended the purchase of glebes by the Catholic Church, just as the Catholic bishop of Clogher was now doing; but he had never advocated the connection of the Catholic Church with the State. If the noble Lord referred to his evidence, he then expressed not his own wish or desire, but the sentiments of the Catholic prelates then in London, who were willing to accede to such a measure for the purpose of adjusting the question then pending. But as to himself, he always stated, both there and elewhere, that he abhorred the very name of a state provision. He agreed with the noble Lord, that the clergy must be paid; but the question was, by whom. By those whose Church they served, or by those with whose Church they had nothing to do. Now, could anything in the abstract be more dishonest than, that to the clergyman of the noble Lord—who always voted against this country, and who treated himself with no great ceremony—he should be called on to give his money. Nothing could be more absurd or unjust than that he should be obliged to pay a clergyman who did not even perform his duty towards the noble Lord, for he did not teach him much sweetness or benevolence. In temporal matters the law, as he had already showed, was not on all occasions absolutely binding; but as to religion, he utterly denied, that Christianity derived any support from the law of the land; for how
 744
 Lord J. Russell  could not object to the motion of the hon. Member on grounds of state necessity, nor that the letter, if produced, would cause any great revelation of state secrets, but he objected to the production of this letter for the same reasons as he had stated when the matter was first mentioned to him. More than one of the Poor-law commissioners had stated to him that they had directed some one in the office of the board to draw up a letter to be sent to the guardians of some of the Poor-law unions, and that such a letter was sent to two or three of the assistant-commissioners, who were requested to say whether the steps proposed in it would be useful or not. But the commissioners had themselves seen, upon considering the letter as drawn up, that there were two or three points in it which it would not be desirable should be carried into effect. But on the 12th of May they did agree to a letter amended from the former, to be sent as before. Now, his objection to producing documents of this
 727
 Mr. G. Palmer  in rising to bring forward the subject of which he had given notice, begged to assure the noble Lord opposite that he was actuated by no vexatious feeling on the present occasion. But he felt that the constitutional rights and liberties of the people of this country had been invaded, and would be invaded more and more every day, by the Poor-law commissioners, acting under the noble Lord, unless some means were taken to place a proper check on their proceedings; and therefore, he felt it his duty to the public at large to bring this matter forward. At the same time he begged to observe, that in any remarks he should have to offer nothing was further from his intention than to make any reflections on the private character of the commissioners; he spoke only of their public conduct. He knew he was treading on delicate ground in bringing forward this matter, when so
 723 "An order has just been issued by the Poor-law commissioners which it is understood will be forwarded to all the unions in England, directing the guardians to appoint within a specified time persons to perform the duties enumerated in the first schedule below, such persons to be paid by an annual salary, and to find two sureties for the due performance of their duties. The duties to be performed by one person are to be specified by the Poor-law commissioners according to circumstances, and every person appointed to perform the duties stated in the first schedule shall undertake in case he be nominated and elected by the inhabitants in vestry of any parish or place within his district, and appointed thereto by any two justices of the peace to perform with-
 724 725 "My Lord,—I much regret, that I have unavoidably been prevented answering your Lordship's favour with Mr. Palmer's enclosed before this. The order, with schedules Nos. 1 and 2, for appointing an assistant-overseer, was received from the Poor-law Commissioners on the 13th of January last. The Commissioners sent it to the guardians, and stated it to be an order, they would be prepared to sanction, if the guardians approved of it, and that I, as the clerk, should be instructed to fill it up, and return it to the Commissioners. The guardians were unanimous in their opinion, that the powers given to the assistant-overseer by such order ought not to have been given to any one individual, and the Commissioners were informed, that the guardians disapproved of such order. Subsequently—namely, on the 8th of February, another order was issued to appoint a collector of poor-rates, &c. "Poole, April 24, 1838. "ROBERT H. PARR. "To the right hon. Lord Ashley, M.P," 726
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the hon. Member for Kilkenny was not right in stating that religious destitution did not exist in Canada. Every thing that transpired on the subject proved the contrary. He (Mr. Goulburn) thought, that there was a solemn obligation on the country to see a good and sufficient religious instruction was provided for her colonies: and where religious establishments were in their infancy, we were bound to succour and uphold them until they attained strength and maturity.
 Mr. Warburton , after the intimation just given by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as also the statements made on a former occasion, that in next Session of Parliament not only the affairs of the Bank of Ireland, but also the principles by which the affairs of the Bank of England were regulated, would be submitted to a committee and there undergo examination and discussion, thought it would be most advisable if his hon. Friend would not persevere in his motion. Some of those principles by which banking companies were regulated, particularly with respect to unrestricted circulation, had been the subject of discussion with men who were best informed upon the subject; and it being now decided, that a committee would sit for the purpose of deciding upon these and other points next Session, he trusted his hon. Friend would withdraw the motion.
 Mr. Briscoe  mourned for the decision to which the right hon. Gentleman had come, because he thought the reputation of the country was involved in it. He had listened with the utmost attention to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, and he heard nothing in it to justify our withholding relief from those who were peri hing in our streets. This was no party or political question, but one of need and destitution—a destitution of the extent of which the House was most probably not aware. He had taken some pains to ascertain the facts, and he found the actual number excluded from participation in the grant to be 189. Of these seventeen were field officers—126 officers, and thirty-six soldiers, and ten the wives and children of soldiers. This was the exact number of persons who were depending on the casual bounty of the public, and of these some had been many days without food. The increase asked was a mere trifle. The apprehension of an increase of the grant being likely to induce more Poles to come to this country was groundless, more especially after the declaration of the French Minister, when he stated, that it was not the intention of the present government to send more Poles into England. This country, therefore, might, without danger, give free scope to its generosity. It was, in his opinion, a mistaken economy to refuse so small an addition to the grant. He would rather see the 5,000 l.
 Mr. Ellis  deprecated the observation made use of by the hon. Member for Greenock in regard to the Church of England. He also denied the truth of the assertion of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, that there was no spiritual destitution in Canada. The speech of the noble Lord (Howick) had given him much pain, inasmuch as it appeared to be of a piece with his recent remarks, equally objectionable, on another subject in which the Established Church was involved. It was a matter of serious regret to hear, day after day, a Minister of the Crown objecting to keep up that Church which he was sworn by virtue of his office to defend. The hon. Member concluded by supporting the motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had never heard so much nonsense as he did in the speech of the hon. Member who mooted the question on the subject of destitution in Canada. He considered the existence of a sinecure church a disgrace to Canada as well as it was to England; and he was of opinion that its existence, if affirmed would lead to results similar to those which had taken place in Ireland. He should oppose the motion.
 Mr. Hume  rose, to bring on the motion of which he had given notice as follows:—"That the exclusive privileges now enjoyed by the Bank of Ireland are injurious to the best interests of that country, and it is therefore most expedient and just to place, as soon as possible, the banks of Ireland on a footing of equality." He wished to know why Ireland, which so much wanted the benefit of capital, should be continued under such a system of monopoly any longer? He considered that they were now in a situation to throw out of view what had been the evils of joint-stock banks, or of the Bank of Ireland. They were now in a situation to call upon the Government, to say why the system of banking in Ireland should not now be put on the same footing as the banks in Scotland. He would call for the same justice to this country, only that he knew that the Bank of England had its monopoly for a certain time; but in the case of the Bank of Ireland it was different, for their charter of exclusiveness was now at an end, and there could be no reason for continuing so injurious a monopoly. Why was the capital of the Bank of Ireland, amounting to two millions and a half, lent to the Government at an interest of four per cent.? He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman had continued the former rate of interest, or whether since January any new arrangement had been made? Seeing the right hon. Gentleman might have borrowed the money at three per cent., if he was paying four or four and a half per cent., it was evident that was to the great injury of the public. He
 718
 Mr. Hume  fully concurred with the right hon. Baronet in the account he had given of the interesting spectacle the committee had witnessed in their visit to the British Museum, and contended, that the principle of opening public institutions and buildings for the free acess on one day in the week or more ought to be carried further than at present. He had reason to think, that the trustees of various provincial museums were about opening them to the public generally, and he did not see why the same thing should not be practised generally. He could not refrain from mentioning the gratification with which he observed the material increase which had taken place in the number of persons frequenting the reading-room of the British Museum. In the year 1825 the number of readers was 3,800, but last year they amounted to no
 728
 Mr. T. Attwood  represented a large community, and was sure, that not a pauper in Birmingham would oppose the increase of the grant.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there never was a more painful duty imposed on an individual Member, than that of bringing back the House from the impulses of generosity and compassion to the considerations of right and of justice. He had, however, one cause for rejoicing, and that was, that he was not now called on to defend the withholding of the grant altogether. The question, he was happy to say, was not one of principle but of degree; and he was also rejoiced to say, that he now, for the fifth time, had had the honour of proposing the grant. Now, the point to which he wished to call the attention of the House, and which had been alluded to by his noble Friend, was, that when the grant was first solicited from Government the gentlemen who consulted Earl Spencer on the subject undertook that the extent of relief required should be for the Poles at that period actually in the country. They not only consented to this stipulation, but stated their determination themselves to resist any attempt at infraction. He did not wish to press this point more than it deserved; but he had a right to make the House acquainted with facts—facts which an hon. Gentleman present could attest. This was in 1834. Afterwards, in consequence of the events at Cracow, new calamities overtook the Poles, and a new class became exiles from their native land, and although these formed no part in the stipulation, the Government overlooked the fact and relieved them. The vote had not been decreased from its original amount, notwithstanding that the natural course of things must have greatly diminished the number of claimants; but the balance had been applied to the relief of the Cracow exiles. Among those who wished to leave the country, and who came recommended by the association, were given the entire sum allowed for one year's subsistence to assist them in emigration. From emigration and other causes the original number had greatly decreased. It was at first 485,
 734 l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  ad-
 737
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted the importance of acquiring the two collections that had been alluded to, and he thought it highly desirable to keep the public opinion in favour of grants of this kind. He had not any fears of opposition from either side of the House when votes for objects of this kind were concerned, for he knew that the House would always be ready to give the most liberal assistance to the Government in carrying such objects into effect. He thought, however, that there was one inconvenience in prospective discussions of this kind for which a strong opinion was expressed by the House in favour of those collections—it had the effect of raising the market against them in their capacity of purchasers. He had the highest respect for the names attached to the memorial, and should give the subject the consideration which it deserved.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, both the mover and seconder of the amendment had fallen into error, in supposing that in moving the Committee, the object was to consider the evidence and frame a Report. On the contrary, he had stated that there were three distinct questions on which evidence was to be taken—the establishment of branch banks of England throughout England; the issues, by certain of these joint-stock banks of bank paper in substitution for their own; and, thirdly, this subject of the Bank of Ireland. The proceedings in the Committee had been strictly in accordance with the statements he then made. It had not inquired into matters which were the subject of investigation on previous occasions, and there was therefore no inconsistency in the course taken by the Committee, and the declaration which he had made. He should decline now entering into an argument on the case, because he could show to the House a sufficient reason for reserving that subject for future consideration. Nothing could be more indiscreet on his part, than to go into a premature discussion as to whether he agreed with, or dissented from, the proposition of the hon. Member, because it might prejudice the question to do so before the evidence which had been taken was in the hands of Members. But the hon. Gentleman had a right to see that the public interests were not affected or forestalled out of doors. The Report which had been brought up, although not yet in the hands of hon. Members, adverted to this subject, and recommended that a bill, in continuation of that of last Session, should be brought in, in such a manner as to give the House an unfettered discretion in the
 719 l. l. l. 720
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  inquired, whether there was any truth in the report which had obtained circulation, and caused considerable uneasiness in the city this afternoon, that the packets to and from Mexico had been interdicted by the French Government from carrying specie, the property of private individuals, while the blockade lasted?
 Sir Francis Burdett  would not do justice to his own feelings, if he did not cordially support the increase of this grant. He felt, that he could add nothing in favour of the proposition to the excellent observations made by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, of whom it would always give him greater pleasure to speak in terms of praise than censure. In the injury that had been done to the high-minded and generous Poles, a blow had been stricken at all civilised Europe. They should not forget the hint which had been thrown out by the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, namely, that it was an ennobling and a stirring sight—a sight calculated to excite a worthy emulation in every generous mind—to see these brave men still clinging to the cause of their prostrate country, even in her utmost desolation. A time might arrive when it might be necessary for us to adopt a course in which the co-operation of these brave men might be desirable. With respect to the increase to the grant, he was sure that the House would be unanimous in consenting to it.
 Mr. Pakington  objected to the amount, as totally insufficient for its purpose. If the revenue of the late Bishop were divided, it would allow 1,500 l. 738
 Sir R. Inglis  was sorry to hear the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down denominate the members of the Established Church as a sect, The great objection of his hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich (Mr. Pakington), with respect to this grant, was, not that it had been increased but diminished; yet the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Hobhouse) complained that too much encouragement had been already given to the Established Church in Canada. He would contend that in a colony, the people of which were of British origin, who spoke the same language, who had had imported to them the same laws, no link in the chain of connection was so strong as that which bound them to the same religion. He was perfectly ready to admit, that when a colony had arrived at that state of maturity, that she could support her Church she ought to do so, but that time as yet, had not arrived for Canada.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that when he considered the state of the Poles—some of them refugees in England, some exiles in Siberia, and some of them strangers in their own home—he was happy to think, that England was no party to that revolt which reduced them to that condition, and was in no degree chargeable with any share in the injustice which blotted Poland as a country out of the map of Europe. England ought to be the asylum of the oppressed of every nation, and she would be found so. When the smallness of the sum was taken into consideration, and when he saw that all those who differed so widely upon other subjects were almost unanimous upon this, he did not think the additional grant would be refused. It was called for, not only by humanity, but by justice, being only a tardy discharge of the debt due by us for the assistance which Poland formerly rendered to England in 1650. Even though the grant should form a precedent, he did not think there would be any objection to its future adoption.
 Sir R. Peel , in rising to propose the vote for the support of the British Museum, could not help expressing his persuasion that the House must observe with great pleasure the increasing interest felt in this great institution, and he could not but think that the hon. Members composing the Committee, among whom was the hon. Member for Kilkenny, would agree with him that the Committee enjoyed a most agreeable sight, when quite unexpectedly they passed through the rooms of the Museum, and remarked the great numbers of persons who were taking a calm and rational delight in the various objects of curiosity presented in the Museum. The right hon. Baronet moved that a sum of 27,469 l.
 Sir R. Peel  said, with respect to the time of admission the Committee had made very liberal arrangements. They had opened the Museum on Easter and Whitsun weeks, and had given the public great additional facilities in other respects. The Museum was at present open to the public during three days in each week. Now it should be recollected, that there were two objects to be kept in view; one was, the admission of the public, and the other, to give scientific persons the opportunity of improving themselves, free from the bustle which was inseparable from a crowded attendance. For this latter object two days were set apart, namely, Tuesday and Thursday, and the remaining day, Saturday, was set apart for the purposes of cleaning. With respect to an additional day, and to appointing admission on Sundays, he had a strong opinion on that subject. He would not disturb the unanimity that prevailed by expressing that opinion; but he thought as one reason against that proposal, that the officers of the establishment required that day for rest. He considered, that the interest taken by the humbler classes of the people in collections of this kind was not only
 729
 Sir R. Peel  contended, that this was not an unnatural question to put to the noble Lord on going into a committee of supply. Surely, the House had a right to know in what position its foreign relations were placed. He, therefore, would ask the noble Lord whether the expedition had sailed to occupy any part of Persia. Had it gone with hostile intentions towards Persia, or by the solicitation of the Government of Persia? To say that it had gone by the authority of the Governor-general was no answer to the question. We ought to know whether it had sailed with hostile intentions against Persia.
 Sir S. Canning  would avail himself of the opportunity to make some further inquiries on a subject on which he had on a former occasion applied for an answer to the right hon. President of the Board of Control. He hoped, that he might now be permitted to ask what was the nature and object of the expedition which had recently been sent from Bombay to Bushire. He asked this question because, from the Indian newspapers, there was every reason to believe, that it was connected with hostilities towards Persia. It had long been known, that an intimate connexion of a diplomatic kind existed between Persia and Russia. It was also known, that that connexion had
 721
 Sir Stratford Canning  observed, that as the French Government had given positive assurances that there should be no
 735
 Viscount Howick  said the manner in which the clergy of Canada were formerly paid was founded in error. They had received their remuneration from the sum which was voted for the army extraordinary expenses, and this was of course without the cognizance of Parliament. The Government had long given attention to the subject. Her Majesty's Government, considering the state of matters in Canada, did not think it expedient that this country should pay for the religious instruction of the inhabitants of that colony. Canada was untaxed—it was a rich and flourishing community—and therefore it was unfair that the heavily taxed people of England should bear such a burthen as the hon. Member's motion would impose on them. There was likewise an arrangement entered into with the colony in the time of Lord Goderich's Government, that no further burthen of that description should be laid on this country. Besides, all the efforts to impose the, Established Church on the inhabitants of that country would be found ineffective. He denied the accuracy of the observation made by the hon. Gentleman, that a great number of emigrants had gone out to the Canadas on the faith of an understanding that the Government would act as he had stated in regard to the Established Church. Under these
 739
 Viscount Palmerston  could only refer the right hon. Gentleman to the answer which he had already received from his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control, that the expedition to Bushire had been sent out, not by this Government, but by the Governor-general of India. As to the secret treaty which the right hon. Gentleman conceived to exist between Russia and Persia, he had no information.
 Viscount Palmerston  submitted, that the right hon. Baronet should have put that question to his right hon. Friend, the President of the Board of Control, when he stated, that the expedition had been sent in consequence of an order from the Governor-general of India.
 Lord Palmerston  said, the hon. Gentleman knew, that according to the strict doctrine of the law on blockade, the French Government would have been entitled to establish an absolute blockade, whereas they had made an exception in favour of the packets in and out between this country and Mexico. Two questions were put to the French Government, whether they would allow these packets to carry specie belonging to merchants; and next, whether they would allow them to carry specie belonging to the English Government, and required for the service? The French Government acceded to the latter part of the request, to allow the packets to carry specie belonging to the Government, but declined to allow them to take specie belonging to individuals. The permitting packets to pass at all, was an indulgence which we had no right to expect according to our own principles, and allowing packets to take specie belonging to Government, was another indulgence which they had no right to expect.
 Viscount Sandon  wished to say a few words as to the amount of this grant. It would be remembered, that in 1836 it was first agreed to vote a sum of 10,000 l. l. 730 l. l. l. l. 731 l. 732
 Viscount Sandon  said, that after what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the promise given that the matter should be taken into consideration, he should withdraw his amendment.
 Viscount Sandon : I heard you say you would wish to have it endowed.
 Viscount Sandon  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech was quite in keeping with the monstrous invectives which he had, on all occasions, lately delivered against the Established Church. The hon. and learned Gentleman had dwelt much on his abhorrence of any connection between the State and the Established Church; but his sentiments were not shared by those who professed his religion! for he defied him to show an instance in which the Catholics had the power and refused to endow their Church. Like the other dissenters, they were against the establishment in England, where the members of the Church preponderated; but all alike, when they migrated to the colonies, claimed the support of the State for their different forms of worship. Then as to the demands of the clergy for money, being men, they must live, and they could not live without those means which the State afforded, in consideration of their devoting their lives to the service of religion. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, he had no respect for Acts of Parliament. He was not at all astonished at the case with which he made such a declaration. He was used to such language; and he not only broke Acts of Parliament himself but he taught others to break them. He had not read the report of the speech of the Bishop of Exeter, so that he could not say how far circumstances might justify his declaration, that he would resist the law; but he was prepared to bow to that law which endowed a particular Church, and which must be taken as the declaration of the nation, through its representatives, in favour of that religion.
 Mr. Lascelles  wished to call the attention of the House to certain facts connected with that measure. In 1834, the Customs' Bill contained clauses constituting certain towns as places for bonding corn; but, in the present bill those clauses were omitted.
 Mr. A. Chapman  said, it was impossible that bonded warehouses could be extended to inland places, with safety to the revenue.
 Mr. Hawes  rose to move its omission. As far as he knew, no British merchants had given their assent to the measure, which was therefore to be considered as emanating exclusively from the Foreign-office. To the establishment of a court for trial of offences by British subjects, there could be no objection; but he protested against a court's interfering with an independent power like China. And if such a course were taken, let it not be forgotten that interested parties would easily be found to whisper that to the Chinese authorities, and render them jealous of, and hostile to, British interests. He therefore moved, that the clause be omitted.
 Mr. Hawes  had been requested by his hon. Friend, the Member for Portsmouth (Sir J. Staunton), to make a few observations with respect to this bill. His hon. Friend had given notice of his intention on going into Committee, to move certain resolutions for the purpose of showing, that it was inexpedient to establish a court, with the jurisdiction about to be given by the present bill, unless the authorities of China had given their assent. Now, he had carefully looked over the papers, the noble Lord had laid before the House, and he could not discover in them the smallest trace of the smallest consent on the part of the authorities of China to the jurisdiction proposed to be given by the noble Lord. He wished to ask the noble Lord, whether the authorities of China recognized this interference with their laws? The noble Lord was about to establish a court, whose authority he could not enforce. Suppose a Chinese were a defendant, and refused to appear, a verdict was given against him, what power but that of actual force could execute and enforce the jurisdiction of the court? He found a very apt case in the papers laid on the table of the House by the noble Lord. A Chinese was wounded by one of the Lascars on board an English ship, and the Lascar was taken into custody. Our chief superintendant demanded, that he should be given up, to be tried by English
 745
 Mr. C. Lushington  trusted the noble Lord would accede to the excellent advice given him by the right hon. Baronet, as he felt convinced that it would be utterly useless to attempt to get the consent of the Chinese Government to abstract regulations.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, that in the course of the Session a great many petitions had been presented, praying for the establishment of this system, and he should be prepared next year to submit a measure on this subject to the consideration of Parliament, and he believed that as it was founded on principles of justice, it would receive the sanction of the Legislature. He should propose a measure similar to that which he had introduced before, and which was complained of as not going far enough, but which was as far as prudence would allow. He was astonished to hear from his hon. Friend an argument against the general principles of fairness and justice, founded on some miserable vested interest, which he alleged to exist in a particular instance.
 Mr. P. Thomson  had no objection to some of the amendments, but he did not think the object of the clause would be answered if the words "British possessions" were left out. The object of the clause was a fair one. Complaints were made, that goods of our manufacture were forged abroad—that they were brought to this country, and from this country sent to the colonies, and sold there with our mark, by which not only was our trade diminished, but the character of that trade in those articles was seriously injured. He admitted, that it was necessary to take care that while these regulations were enforced, no injury should be done to their foreign trade. He could not, therefore, agree to exclude the British possessions. Much less inconvenience and injury would result from that course than from giving the parties a right of action. In his opinion, the authorities and the Customhouse officers in the British Colonies would be perfectly able to discharge the duties intrusted to them, and to exercise a sound discretion as to what articles were and what articles were not of British manufacture.
 Mr. P. Thomson  moved the further consideration of the Report on the Customs Duties Bill.
 Mr. Warburton  thought the clause so objectionable in principle, that he should persevere in his amendment.
 Mr. Warburton  particularly objected to the sixth clause of the bill, which enacted, that if foreign manufactures, purporting to be British, were introduced, they might be seized by any Custom-house officer in any port of the United Kingdom, or any British possession. Now, he proposed to amend that clause, first, by limiting its operation to the United King-
 754
 Mr. Warburton  hoped his hon. Friend would withdraw his resolution, and allow the bill to go into Committee. It was most essential that these tonnage duties should be repealed, and the Government having given its assent, they were certain of carrying the proposition to a favourable result. With regard to other clauses of the bill, he hoped the noble Lord would re-consider them before he decided upon pressing them upon the consideration of the House. In his opinion, it would be far better to defer them until they had some further information upon the subject.
 Mr. Ashton Yates  wished it to be distinctly understood, that the mercantile interests, did not acquiesce in the proposition.
 Captain Alsager  seconded the amendment.
 Sir J. Graham  felt bound to express his regret, that the noble Lord should have thought it necessary, in the present state of the House, and at this advanced period of the Session, to bring under its consideration a question of such great importance. The noble Lord had read to the House some extracts from a work of
 750 751
 The Solicitor-General  thought the omission of the clause would place the House in a novel situation. There were
 753
 Viscount Palmerston  said, as the sense of the House appeared to be against the bill, he had no objection to postpone it until next Session.
 Lord Palmerston  begged to set the hon. Baronet right with respect to the dispute between Lord Napier and the Chinese
 752
 Viscount Palmerston  could not acquiesce in the proposal of his hon. Friend, and thought, that he and the hon. Member for Portsmouth, whose speech he had undertaken to makes, had not fully consi-
 746 747 748 749
 Viscount Palmerston  moved, that the House should resolve itself into a Committee upon the China Courts' Bill.
 Sir E. Wilmot , in excusing himself for not having attended the Committee, said, that shortly after they had commenced their sittings he was taken ill and confined to bed for a fortnight, and that, on recovering, he would have resumed his attendance, but that he did not wish to vote for a report of which he could have known nothing, and which was then prepared.
 Mr. A. Sandford  having upon all former occasions given his support to propositions for the appointment of a Committee of this kind, now felt bound to state, that the result of the inquiry confirmed his opinion as to the propriety of instituting such an investigation. He was now more strongly convinced than ever, that the investigation in every sense of the word was most correct and proper, not only as regarded the public but the pensioners themselves. He thought, that the report and the appendix would have a powerful effect in disabusing the public mind as to the manner in which these pensions had been given. It was certainly satisfactory to hear, that the right hon. Baronet did not accuse the Committee of any wilful injustice. All that the right hon. Baronet said was, that he thought the investigation would perhaps have been conducted with
 809
 Mr. S. O'Brien  rose to call the attention of the House to the partial distribution of the grant. In his opinion, either power should be given to raise money by assessment, or the grant ought to be increased; or indeed both ought to be done, for without it national education in Ireland could not be effectually promoted, and the House would not do its duty to that country until a good school was established in every parish. At the same time, if there were a large proportion of both Protestants
 812
 Colonel Percival  said, that this grant had caused much excitement in England, and he had no doubt that if the estimates had been brought forward at a different period of the year the opinion of the counties in England against the grant would have been made manifest. He should consider it a dereliction of his duty, however, if he did not state, that his hostility to the grant had been increased since the last opportunity he had of addressing the Committee upon this subject. An election had since passed, and the conduct of the gentlemen educated at Maynooth, the Roman Catholic priests, had been such as to show the necessity of some amendment in the system of education pursued in that college. Instead of being the promoters of peace and harmony and good will, they were only the instigators of revolt and tumult. He himself, had been the subject of attack, and his political conduct had been canvassed for five or six weeks before, and also after the election in every chapel but one. He would not, however, be deterred; and although his gallant Friend would not divide the House upon it, he trusted that her Majesty's Government would at an
 814
 Mr. O'Connell  had not heard that the "Battle of the Diamond" was one of the toasts given at the dinner to which the hon. and gallant Colonel alluded. The worthy magistrate, whose presence at an anti-tithe meeting seemed to excite the indignation of the hon. and gallant Colonel, had not given that toast, or any toast like it, and all that he had done was, to sit by whilst the Rev. M. Doyle was making his speech. He was sorry that the three gallant Colonels opposite, the Church militant he supposed of that House, had not the courage to divide against this grant; for if they had had such courage he should certainly have divided with them, for this grant was most decidedly against the voluntary principle which, in matters of religion, he should always uphold. They only talked—they would not divide. [The three gallant Colonels conversed together for a short time]. Now
 817 "Three colonels in three different counties born—
Did Lincoln, Sligo, and Armagh adorn;
The first in gravity of face surpassed—
In grace the second—sobriety the last.
The force of Nature could no further go;
To beard the first she shaved the other two." l.
 Mr. O'Connell  deplored the crimes, that had been committed against the Canadians. A greater crime never was perpetrated than when the British Legislature took away from the House of Representatives in Canada the command of the purse of the Canadian people. The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir E. Sugden) had talked a great deal of constitutional principle, but where was his love of constitutional principle when the House of Commons was robbing the Canadians of the first principle of the Constitution, planted by the British Legislature in Canada—namely, the right over the public purse? The friends of liberty in Canada had, at first, everything in their own power, and might have insured success if they had managed well. But for their own folly, wickedness, and crime, they would have decidedly prevailed. The moment, however, that Papineau and the rest shed blood, and broke out into rebellion by forming military companies, in spite of the executive power, at that instant they lost the support of every man who looked to obtaining the freedom of any people by constitutional means, and they deserved the greatest misfortune, that could fall upon them; they deserved the greatest of all misfortunes—that of putting their country into the power of despotism. It was a despotism; Lord Durham was a despot. The question then remained, how had Lord Durham conducted himself with such despotic power? He acknowledged, that having a high esteem for that nobleman's character, he was afraid he would have sacrificed it in the vain attempt to conciliate parties in Canada. His delight, however, could hardly be expressed at that noble Lord's success, hitherto, for that noble Lord had conciliated all parties there. Every letter that arrived expressed the satisfaction of the people of Canada at his proceedings. The noble Lord had acted with a degree of perfect impartiality between the French-born, and the British-born, Canadians, and between all sects of Christians; and they were all unanimous in their expressions of regard for him. One of the first things, that made the noble Lord popular was, the abolition of that very council of
 827 Oh! Oh! 828
 Lord J. Russell , in consequence of a word which had dropped from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin respecting the conduct of Governor Arthur, wished to make one observation. He should be sorry, that it should be understood, that Sir George Arthur had at all been anxious in any case to enforce the extreme execution of the law where circumstances did not make it, not only justifiable, but absolutely necessary.
 Lord John Russell  thought if the right hon. Gentleman had been strongly impressed with a sense of the inexpediency of weakening the authority of the Governor-general at this time, he would have spared some of the observations he addressed to the House. The right hon. Gentleman had again stated his opinion as to the illegality of the way in which the Special Council had been constituted by Lord Durham; and said, that it was not legally constituted because it did not consist of more than five members. Of course, any observation of the right hon. Gentleman, if it had much weight in it, would not have failed to have had weight on the minds of others; but he must say, he had not heard that opinion supported by any other person than the right hon. Gentleman himself. It appeared to him (Lord John Russell) that the fact of five members only being appointed could not well affect the legality of the proceeding, because the act only said, that not less than five should be present at any council. [Sir  E. Sugden: 823 E. Sugden: 824 825
 Colonel Sibthorp  opposed the grant, as exclusively applied to one religious persuasion. He disclaimed any intention to give offence to the Roman Catholics, some of whom he was happy in reckoning among his friends, but he thought that it was inconsistent with the Protestant religion of this country to vote a sum for the support of a religion opposed to that which was established here. In the then thin state of the House, however, he would not divide upon it.
 Colonel Sibthorp  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the various commissions that have been issued since 1830 to the present time, or period, at which the above return may be dated. When he looked to the incomplete returns before the House, so unsatisfactory to the public, and so difficult to comprehend, and in which there was no just grounds assigned for the several commissions to which they referred, he felt, that in moving for a Select Committee, he was only discharging a public duty. Commission after commission, had been extended at an expense to the country of upwards of 2,000,000 l. l., Lord J. Russell: 810 l. s. d., l. s. d., l. s. d. l. s. d., l., l. s. d. l. s. d. l., l., l. 811
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that his noble friend, in putting a question to him, had endeavoured to raise an argument. He did not, however, agree with him as to his argument; for what had been done by the Government of Naples as to the sulphur, had nothing whatever to do with the oil question. The decree of the Neapolitan Government on the subject of sulphur was directed quite as much against the French Government as against ours. With respect to the question which his noble Friend had put to him, he had to reply, that it was only two or three days ago that he was officially made acquainted with the fact that the Neapolitan Government had entered into the unwise proceeding of raising sulphur in Sicily under a monopoly. As soon as he should receive an official copy of the contract which that Government had made, he would lay it on the table of the House. He had already seen a copy of it which had been privately furnished him; and he had submitted it to the law officers of the Crown for the purpose of ascertaining whether the Neapolitan Government could enter into such a contract, conformably to the treaties into which it had previously entered with us. If it could not, there was an end to the question; if it could, we could only try what we could effect by good offices.
 Sir E. Sugden  rose to direct the attention of the House to the present state of Canada with reference to the constitution of the Special Council. That council, as appeared by a document which had been recently laid upon their table, consisted of five persons. Now, in one of the earliest clauses of the act of Parliament which passed this Session, it was stated, that the Governor-general should have authority to appoint such special councillors as he might think proper, without specifying any particular number; and the noble Lord opposite, in introducing the bill, said that no particular number of special councillors should be appointed by the bill, but that five should constitute a quorum; and in a subsequent clause it was enacted that no act should be valid unless it was introduced by the Governor-general himself in the presence of five at least of the Special Council. In the instructions sent out to the Governor-general, he was authorized to appoint such individuals as he pleased to select for the post of Special Councillors, the number not being less than five. The Governor-general had done exactly what he (Sir E. Sugden) had anticipated, for, although the act of Parliament did not say, that there should be more than five of these Councillors appointed, yet the inference was irresistible that there should be more than that number; because, if there were to be five at least present when the Governor in order to make their proceedings valid, surely this supposed that the body itself should be composed of more than five. He had taken the opportunity of stating his opinion on this point to a member of the Government. If his opinion were a correct one, there could be no doubt that the acts of the Council would be void, on the ground of irregularity in the formation of that body, contrary to the terms of the act, and it was certain that advantage would be taken of this objection by persons in the Colony who might be affected by the acts of the Council. As he was on his legs, he could not avoid saying a word or two with respect to the parties appointed by Lord Durham as his council. When the House heard of the authority given by the act relating to Canada to the Governor-general to appoint a Special and Executive Council, no member doubted that the object was, and indeed the whole context
 821 822
 Mr. G. Knight  said, he should vote in support of the grant, on the ground that the diffusion of education everywhere, but especially in Ireland, was the best mode of supporting and advancing the progress of Protestantism.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that looking altogether to the expenses in which the retention of the Canadas had involved this country, he submitted it to the House whether it were worth while to retain a colony which had proved so expensive and unprofitable an acquisition. They had only to look to the vast sums which had been sunk fruitlessly in canals, and to the folly of enforcing a trade in timber with that country when a much better quality could be obtained in European ports, to feel the force of this observation. He was convinced that the annual expense of this Colony to England was not less than 2,500,000 l. 820
 Mr. Warburton  thought hon. Members ought to have had the report in their hands, at least a sufficient time to allow the paper to dry. He had not had half an hour to make himself master of the recommendations of the Committee, and to look for the different claims of the different classes of pensioners on whose cases they were about to resolve, If any hon. Member would support him, he would move the adjournment of the further consideration of this matter until such a day as might be suitable.
 Mr. James Grattan  was not prepared to increase the grant, though he wished to see the sums already voted appropriated with the greatest benefit to the country. He objected to the whole proceedings of the board, who, in his opinion, looked more to the quantity than the quality of education introduced, and thought that a better system ought to be established.
 Mr. Ellis  thought the really advisable course would be to grant a committee to inquire into the state of education at Maynooth, and he thought the very fact stated by the right hon. Gentleman that the grant was recommended by Burke, and established by Pitt, was a sufficient ground
 816
 Mr. Philip Howard  observed, that hon. Gentlemen should bear in mind that the greatest part of the Colleges of Oxford had been erected by the Roman Catholics as well as most of the Churches throughout the country. He really thought that in fairness, it scarcely became those who came into possession of splendid edifices ready built for them to grudge to the Roman Catholics who raised them, so paltry a sum, so inadequate a retribution if he might so express himself, as the grant then proposed to Maynooth College.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was not competent to the hon. and gallant Member to make the motion to which he had alluded in the Committee of supply; for they could not enter into such a question. They might vote against the grant, but they could not obtain a committee to inquire into the general subject. With regard to the complaint that the Irish estimates were improperly taken out of order, he begged to deny that such was the case. The estimates were all numbered, and were taken according to their regular course, and the complaint was entirely without foundation. If hon. Members had desired that the question should be considered more at large, it was quite within the powers of any one of them to move for a committee at any period of the Session. They seemed, indeed, to be
 815
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  having moved a vote of 8,928 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not accede to the motion of the hon. and gallant Member. There was not a single item of expenditure on commissions that had not by necessity been brought under the consideration of Parliament, and no money had been granted for those purposes, without the sanction of the House, either by a special act, or by the ordinary estimates of the year. The present was not a suitable time to discuss the merits of those commissions, and he trusted, that the House would not hold out the least hope of encouragement to the motion of the gallant Member, either now, or at any future time.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose for the purpose of bringing under the consideration of the House what he hoped would prove a final and satisfactory settlement on the subject of pensions, and he approached that question on the present occasion with a deep feeling of interest and anxiety, and with a fervent hope that the House would accede unanimously to the resolutions with which he intended to conclude. The different turns which the debate took on the Pension List at the time when it occurred were too fresh in the memory of the House to require him to detail them at length and were besides set out in the report at present upon the table. It was therefore only necessary for him to state, that in the month of December last a committee was appointed to inquire into this subject, a committee which included the names of several gentlemen who were accustomed to take a strict and economical view of the pensions on the civil list, and who formed collectively a tribunal that was perfectly impartial and independent of all control. When he said that the committee was impartial, he did not mean to deny, that it was constituted of gentlemen of one particular view in politics, but that had been no fault of his, for he had been anxious to secure the services of several hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite, but they, having opposed the inquiry altogether, felt that they should be acting inconsistently if they sat upon the committee which was to conduct that inquiry, and therefore declined to become members of it. That determination upon their part deprived him of the services of several gentlemen on whose authority both the House and himself would have placed great reliance. The Committee, however, had met and sat 35 days. It was attended by the great bulk of the Members appointed to serve on it, and he rejoiced that in consequence of a recent regulation of the House, not only the attendance of members, but also the different votes which they had given, were exhibited in the report; indeed, he might say, that the report was agreed to unanimously, for 16 Members were present when it was agreed to, and, looking at the names of the members who were absent and at the votes which they had given on the different divisions at which they had been present, he had no hesitation in saying, that had they been present, they also would have agreed in the report with the same unanimity as
 794 795 796 797 "Vienna January 11, 1838. "Sir,—Living, on account of the smallness of my income, in the most retired manner at the above place, I have nothing to offer in justification of the liberty I take in addressing you but the information I have received through the medium of the newspapers, that all of that despised and degraded class called pensioners are desired to send to you, Sir, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, an account of their several claims to the pensions they have hitherto received. Taking it then for granted that I am rightly informed, I beg your patience to the enforced recital. My father the hon. General Lucius Ferdinand Carey, commanded at the taking of the Island of St. Lucia from the French, in the year 1780, and died of his wounds on the day of its capture. "The pension which was granted to his daughters was not obtained through the favour of any Minister, but was given by the voice of Parliament, and the consent of our ever-respected Sovereign George the 3rd.; it consisted of 80 l. 798 "LAVINIA MATILDA CAREY MORTIMER, "Aged 67." "I do not undervalue, by any means, the pecuniary advantages of the pension; with my family and my wants that were impossible; have I not, ere this, borne heavier privations? and for my country! I have. But I do value high, and above all, the touching testimony to the merits and to the memory of Sir Home Popham borne in the continuance of that pension by a grateful country, ministered by a Royal hand to his widow, and that because he
 799 800 801 802 maximum l. l. l., l., l. 803 l. l. l. maximum 804 bonâ fide 805 806
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer : It was no omission, the Committee declined entering on that subject.
 Mr. Wyse  said the only question was, whether the Catholic clergy were to be educated or not? for if they were, it was better they should be educated at home than abroad.
 Mr. W. E. Gladstone  had never heard a speech more cruelly unjust than that made by the noble Lord. Even if Roman Catholic principles were inculcated in the University of Oxford, that fact had properly no relation to the question; but he had no hesitation in characterizing the
 819
 Mr. Gladstone  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Dublin boasted of having given 1,000,000 l.
 Colonel Verner  observed, that the way to judge of Maynooth was to look at the conduct of the priesthood. He defied the hon. Gentlemen on the opposite benches to point out any Protestant clergyman who had ever been guilty of such outrageous conduct as that which had been recently exhibited by a Roman Catholic clergyman who had received his education at that seminary. The gallant Colonel then proceeded to read an extract from a speech made by the Rev. M. Doyle, as chairman of an anti-tithe dinner, given to him on a Sunday, at Kilkenny, by 150 persons. In that speech he declared his determination to oppose any Tithe Bill which did not go to the entire abolition of tithes, and said, that if the present Tithe Bill were passed, he would agitate the rent-charge. Yes, he would follow the advice of Lord Anglesey, and would "agitate, agitate, agitate." A magistrate, of the name of Hawkshaw, was present at that dinner, and heard that speech. He wished to ask the noble Lord opposite whether he had struck, or intended to strike, the name of that magistrate out of the commission of the peace, for hearing such a speech.
 Colonel Verner  considered that this was an institution subversive of morality and good faith; and surely before the grant was agreed to, an inquiry ought to be set on foot. He knew that there had been an inquiry in the year 1826, but great changes had taken place since that time, and they ought to compare the declaration made by the friends and advocates of the Catholics before the Emancipation and Reform Acts had passed, with the sentiments now openly put forward and generally adopted. Many petitions from the people of England had been, night after night, laid upon the table of that House, calling upon them to make an inquiry into the system on which the college of Maynooth was conducted, and these petitions ought to be attended to. The estimates also ought to have been brought forward at an earlier period of the Session, when Irish Members capable of giving expression to their sentiments were present. In vain had the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer been asked in the spring to fix an early day for the discussion of the Irish estimates, but to-night, seeing those (the Opposition) benches empty, he had hurried them on, when they were not expected, postponing the militia estimates; and he (Colonel Verner) considered this as an unfair and unjustifiable substitution. If the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln should not move, that this grant should be withdrawn, he felt it to be his duty to make such a motion.
 Sir Charles Grey , having paid considerable attention not only to the particular act referred to, but to many other acts of Parliament relating to Canada, could not agree with the right hon. and learned Gentleman, that the proceedings of the Special Council would be at all invalidated in consequence of five members only constituting that council. There was one observation which fell from the hon. and learned Member for Dublin to which he wished to advert. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said, that the act of Parliament had conferred on Lord Durham powers of despotism. Now, if such an opinion were to go forth in Canada it would be calculated to do immense mischief. There were parties in that province who would be most ready to persuade Lord Durham, that he did possess those powers. But he begged to express his decided opinion, that the act did not confer any despotic power on the Governor-general. The utmost it conferred was a legislative power to the Governor-general in Council, which was previously possessed by the Legislative Council and the House of Assembly. It would be ruinous to have it supposed, that the power it conferred was despotic.
 Sir C. Lemon  found, that in all previous inquiries of this kind the pensions granted on the revenues of the Duchy of Cornwall, were always made the first branch of inquiry. In 1689 an investigation of this kind took place, in which it appeared that the Bishop of Exeter had a pension of 30 l. l. l.
 The Attorney-General  thought it right to say something about the doubt expressed by Sir E. Sugden respecting the formation of the Special Council. He could not participate in that doubt. It seemed to him, that there being five members of the Special Council, and all being present, no reasonable doubt could exist of the validity of the acts of that Council. By the second clause of the act such and so many special councillors were to be appointed as her Majesty and the Governor-general should please. No number was specified. When they came to the following section then it was said, that five at least should be present when any act was done. What was the meaning of that? Why, that at least there should be five councillors appointed, Five
 826
 Sir R. Peel  begged to say, without entering into a discussion on the merits of the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he still retained all the opinions which he had before expressed upon the subject. He thought it would have been infinitely better, as they were about effectually to prevent any future abuse, and place the Pension List upon a new footing, had the principle of secession hitherto pursued on the demise of the Crown been adhered to. Even though that principle had not been adopted, he thought it would have been better, when the opportunity presented itself of revising those grants, that the inquiry should have been conducted by the Crown, as likely to be conducted with more justice and consideration than it could possibly be by a Committee. He had not the slightest doubt that this Committee had faithfully and honestly discharged its obligations to the country, while it dispassionately and fairly considered individual claims. His objection was not so much to the proceedings of the Committee as to the original constitution of it. There were various reasons which would make him distrust individual claims; but if he entered upon that question, he would be liable to the objection he was urging against the Committee. He was bound to say, however, that he could not understand the grounds upon which, in some instances, the pensions had been continued, and in others discontinued. He was afraid that such a consequence would inevitably flow from the circumstance, that while in some cases the number of Gentlemen, on the Committee, for and against, being equally balanced, it remained with the chairman to decide; in others there was a large majority, although they might be cases perfectly analogous. Thus, as it appeared to him, former decisions were at variance with decisions subsequently come to. He must say, therefore, that he could not acquiesce in the withdrawal of those pensions. He did not feel himself at liberty to enter into the particulars of those cases; at the same time, were he to do so, it would not be with any desire to make any charge against the Committee. The consequence he had referred to was, he conceived, almost inevitable in dealing with delicate questions of this kind. The right hon. Gentleman, in the conclusion of his speech, said, that the parties receiving
 808
 Viscount Morpeth  confessed, that the statements of both his hon. Friends who had just spoken, appeared to him a little affected, for the former complained of the number of grants which had been already made as not sufficient, whilst the hon. Member for Wicklow seemed to think there had been too much money voted for this purpose already, and deprecated the grant of more to be applied in the same direction. With respect to the expense of the establishment in Dublin, the greater part had been incurred in fitting up school rooms and training masters, a point of material consequence, as the want of proper teachers was so much felt in establishing the system of education that was to be adopted. With respect to raising money by assessment, by the regulations laid down in the letters of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, it was expressly stated that local funds should be raised before any aid should be granted. When complaint, therefore, was made of the state of education in any district, it would, he thought, be found that the complainants had been deficient in the requisites laid down by the regulations on which the board was bound to act. As to altering the system itself, that was a large question on which Parliament might at some future time be required to give its serious consideration, both as to this country and as to Ireland, and also whether it should be made to depend on local contributions or not. The acrimony and hostility with
 813
 Viscount Morpeth  felt that it was not incumbent upon him to defend the origin of a grant which was recommended by Mr. Burke, established by Mr. Pitt, sanctioned by Mr. Perceval, and dignified by the Royal Protestant assent of George 3rd. The grant now proposed was scanty and penurious, and he thought that hon. Gentlemen opposite would feel extremely indignant, if a similar spirit of parsimony was extended towards the Protestant universities of the country. He would not, however, propose to extend this grant at present, for he feared that such a proposition would tend to increase that spirit of religious animosity which he was most anxious to allay. He only proposed to make the grant of former years, which was a most paltry and parsimonious provision for the priesthood of so extensive a country as Ireland; and still more so, for a priesthood invested with such immense responsibility as that which fell on the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland. They had recently granted 900,000 l. l. 818
 Lord Sandon  wished to ask his right hon. friend the President of the Board of Trade a question relative to the commerce of the country. Negotiations had been pending some time between the Government of this country and that of Naples respecting the high duty imposed by this Government on Neapolitan oil in consequence of the high duty imposed by the Neapolitan Government on fish imported from our colonies. In order to do further injury to our commerce, the Neapolitan Government had recently confided the monopoly of brimstone to a French company. He rose to ask his right hon. Friend whether he was in possession of a copy of the decree by which that monopoly was established, and if he was, whether he would have any objection to lay it on the table?
 Colonel Sibthorpe  moved as an amendment that the Bill be read a third time on this day three months. He considered it as neither more nor less than a job, got up for the purpose of obliging the Parliamentary friends of Government.
 Mr. O'Connell  said, that the grocers, as a class, were more respectable than the publicans. and were more deserving of the spirit licences. If the object of the House was to repress drunkenness, it should altogether prohibit the sale of spirits. While the act appeared to be rather levelled at putting down grocers than drunkards. He had never in his life heard of any riot occurring in grocers' shops in consequence of their being permitted to hold spirit licences.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that the bill in its present shape contained all the main principles which were already sanctioned by the House. There were some alterations made by the House of Lords, but nothing to trench upon the main principles of the bill. He thought, therefore, that it would be unreasonable on their parts to accede to the amendment of the hon. Gentleman, and not adopt what was in fact their own bill. The hon. Gentleman had said, that the power of the commissioners was infringed upon, in giving the Archbishop of Canterbury the privilege of uniting and disuniting benefices. Now, as the commission never possessed this authority, it could not be said to be trenched upon by the change made by the House of Lords. Though he was sorry that some clauses had been struck out which were agreed to in that House, he still thought it very desirable that a bill which had undergone two year's consideration should not be rejected after having had so much pains bestowed upon it.
 Lord J. Russell  moved the order of the day for the consideration of the Lords' amendmts to this bill.
 Mr. C. Lushington  said, that the result of his hasty application and useless labor—hasty application, because he had only time to consider these amendments for one or two days, and useless labour, because to his illegal mind the greater proportion of the new clauses wh e wholly inexplicable.—the result of the hasty application and useless labour was a conviction that the bill was unintelligible. There were two civil doctors in that House, his relative and the hon. and learned Gentleman on the opposite side, and if they would undertake to understand the clauses in a week, so as to make them intelligible, he should be satisfied. The powers of the Ecclesiastical commissioners were greatly
 844
 Mr. Shaw  had the greatest objection to this bill, which if passed would convert all the grocers into spirit dealers, and thus increase an evil already enormous. He had exerted himself for several years to check intemperance in the city of Dublin, but if he were not assisted by the Government he could not hope for any success. He hoped therefore, that the noble Lord opposite would refuse his assent to this bill. He begged leave to move that it be read a second time that day six months.
 Mr. Warburton  remarked that many of the changes made by the Lords were improvements; but as there were fifteen or sixteen new clauses, he thought they should be allowed a day or two to make themselves masters of the bill in its present shape.
 Mr. E. Tennent  moved the second reading of the Spirit Licences Bill. As he understood that the measure was to be opposed, he would very briefly state the reasons which had rendered its introduction expedient. In 1836, Mr. Perrin, who was then Attorney-General for Ireland, brought in a bill to regulate the granting of spirit licences in that country, and in that bill was inserted a clause prohibiting the granting of a retail licence to grocers. The object of this clause was to obviate the temptation to tipling and intemperance which was held out to servants and others by the facilities and secrecy afforded for obtaining spirits at shops where the parties were ostensibly led by other business. It was only in portions of the metropolis and not in the smaller towns of Ireland this complaint applied, in those places generally the sale of spirits formed but a portion of the business of those who were general dealers, men of character and of capital, forming usually the better class of shopkeepers and persons who had too much respect for themselves to permit their houses to be abused by intemperance of any kind. If these men were now to be forcibly excluded from this trade, it would inevitably fall into hands less safe, and be confined to parties with smaller capital and greater temptations to permit excess. The houses of the grocers were closed at early hours, and always so on the sabbath-day, which would not be the case if the sale of spirits were to be compulsorily thrown into the hands of publicans of limited means. Its object was
 847
 Mr. Ellis  rose to second the amendment of the hon. and gallant Officer, that the bill be read a third time that day three months: Since he had last spoken upon
 845 l. l. l. l. l. l. 846
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the third reading of the Post-office Bill.
 Colonel Verner  said, with respect to the grocers of that part of the country with which he (Colonel Verner) was acquainted he could bear testimony to the excellence of their character.
 Lord Morpeth  felt himself in a peculiar position with respect to the bill. In the former measures which Government brought forward it was proposed to insert a clause prohibiting the sale of spirits on the premises by grocers, but a deputation of that body having been sent over from Ireland to remonstrate on the point, the clause was abandoned. A similar clause however, had been introduced by way of rider to the bill, and as he had not divided the House upon it after the deputation of grocers had left London impressed with the opinion that no such clause would be introduced, he felt almost as if he had broken faith with them, and would not therefore attempt to influence any votes upon the question.
 Lord Stanley  said, that hon. Gentlemen were invited to bring forward objections to the boundaries, and they would have the same opportunity of discussing the details of the boundaries of each separate borough in the schedule, as they would have had in Committee on the noble Lord's bill. There had been ample time to procure information. The report of the boundary commissioners had been for a considerable period, and the noble Lord's bill had been also for some time before them; and if they did not now settle this question, the Government would be open to the charge of favouritism, of assisting this person and slighting that, to which the noble Lord had alluded. The natural remedy for this complaint was, for Parliament to take the subject out of the hands of any party, and to settle the boundaries at once.
 Mr. O'Connell  thought it odd to hear the Government Commissioners so much praised by the hon. Gentlemen on the opposition side of the House. It augured a foregone conclusion. The Commissioners in some towns changed the boundaries materially. In Cork, for instance, by the new boundary, many persons paying all the city rates would be left out, and thus, whilst they were liable to all the charges of the corporation, they were to enjoy none of the benefits arising from it. This was not a very fair result of the proceedings of the Commissioners. Ought not every man who paid the Municipal rates be entitled to all the advantages of a Municipal Corporation? It would be no
 907
 Lord Stanley  rose but to advert to one statement made by his noble Friend opposite and reiterated by the hon. Member for Kilkenny. It was with respect to the non-adoption of the English municipal franchise in the Irish bill for the settlement of corporations. Whether it were right or wrong, the principle adopted by the side of the House on which he sat, in regard to this measure, was to fix the amount of the municipal franchise in Ireland as nearly as possible the same as the parliamentary franchise in England, and the municipal franchise in Scotland. The parliamentary franchise in England consisted in a house of the clear yearly value of 10 l. l. l. 914
 Mr. O'Connell  said, if the noble Lord were desirous of doing justice to Ireland, he had, undoubtedly, a curious way of exhibiting that desire. The only justice that should and ought to be done was to give the municipal franchise of England to Ireland. In England every man rated to the poor's rate had the municipal franchise.—[Lord  Stanley:
 Mr. O' Connell  observed, that the words were in the clause as to the payment of local rates and taxes, and therefore he did not think the words objected to ought to be retained.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported it, and said, it often happened, that persons were disfranchised by reason of the collectors purposely keeping out of the way, in order to avoid receiving the payment of the rates and taxes.
 Lord J. Russell  thought, that the proposal made by the Government was hardly understood. He knew that the Commissioners might have performed their duties very ably, but he knew also that persons were sometimes apt to make too narrow boundaries with respect to certain towns. His object, therefore, was to give to the Lord-lieutenant the power, not of excluding any part of a town, but of including any liberties or suburbs, which should form a part of the town. He thought that the House of Lords, having followed a very inconvenient course in bringing this question of boundaries within the provisions of this bill now before the House, there would be no hesitation in adopting this, the only remedy which could be prescribed.
 Lord J. Russell  proposed an amendment to the clause settling the franchise. After the words "shall be" he proposed to introduce the words "rated to the relief of the poor under an act passed in the present Session of Parliament, entitled," &c., at any sum which, on the addition of one quarter part thereof, made in consideration of the annual average cost of the rates, taxes, and public charges, and the probable average cost of the repairs, insurance, and other expenses necessary to maintain the said premises, shall be not less than 10 l. l. l.
 Lord John Russell , proposed the introduction of an enactment at the end of Clause B, to the following effect:—
 "Provided, also, that it shall be lawful for the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, with the advice of the Privy Council of Ireland, at any time within twelve calendar months after this Act shall have come into operation, in any borough, to alter the boundaries of any such borough, for the purpose of including therein any part or suburb of the town (if any) which may not be included within the boundaries of any borough as defined under this Act, and also to alter the boundaries of the several wards thereof, in such manner as may become necessary, by reason of any such addition to the borough, or for the purpose of equalising, as far as (may be, the number of burgesses, in each ward, and every such alteration shall be published in the  Dublin Gazette,
 Lord John Russell  said, that before he
 872 873 874 Shaw, 875 876 "That every person who shall have been elected or appointed by any body corporate named in the said schedule (B) to this Act annexed, which shall be dissolved by virtue of this Act, or by any member or members thereof, in his or their corporate capacity, to be a clerk of a market, or a weighmaster of all goods, wares, and merchandises, or a weigh-master of butter, or taster of butter, or assay-
 877 "That every person who shall be a town-clerk, bailiff, treasurer, or chamberlain, or other ministerial or executive officer of any body corporate named in the said schedule (B) to this Act annexed, which shall be dissolved by virtue of this Act, and who shall be in such office at the time of such dissolution, shall continue to execute all the duties heretofore belonging to his office, so far as the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, in the same manner as he would have done if this Act had not passed, until he shall be removed from his office by the commissioners to be appointed in such borough by virtue of this Act, or, where there shall be no such commissioners, by the Lord-lieutenant." 878 879 880 l. l. 881 882 l. 883 l. l. 884 bonâ fide l. l. l. 885 l. l. l. l. l. l. 886 l. l. l. l. l. 887
 Lord J. Russell : The words upon which I founded my remark were these—"or might hereafter have been entitled."
 Mr. Lynch  thought, the question ought to be postponed, to give any Irish Members who were interested, an opportunity of taking the necessary measures for obtaining information upon it. He was not alluding to any objection against the boundaries upon the part of his own constituents, but in Cork and Limerick very strong objections had been made to the manner in which the commissioners had defined the boundaries. The atten-
 905
 Mr. E. Turner  rose to remark on two very important points arising out of this night's debate. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had stated, that in the borough of Leeds there were no more than 6,000 Parliamentary electors, although there were 25,000 municipal electors. That learned Gentleman had also stated, that in the borough of Stockport there were 3,000 Parliamentary electors, and 9,000 who voted for municipal officers. In the early part of this debate the noble Lord opposite (Stanley) stated, that he considered the municipal electors, who, of necessity were required to occupy the same premises three successive years, and pay all the rates and taxes charged thereon before they could exercise their municipal franchise, were nearly approximate to the persons who occupied a ten-pound house, and who voted for Members of Parliament, and this sentiment was immediately after responded to by the right hon. and learned Member for Ripon. Now, he wished this House and the country to know, that hon. Members on the other side admitted that there were, in the boroughs of Leeds and Stockport 25,000 persons eligible to choose their own representatives who did not now enjoy that privilege; and, doubtless, that
 922
 Sir E. Sugden  opposed the motion.
 Sir E. Sugden  did not think it necessary to deny the hon. and learned Gentleman's charge, that the English franchise was denied because it was the determination of the side of the House on which he sat to do no justice to Ireland. The hon. and
 915
 Mr. Shaw  insisted that the words ought to be retained.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that, if the hon. and learned Member exactly comprehended the question, he would see that there did not exist any obstacle to their discussing it then. The observations of the hon. and learned Member, with respect to the quantity of local and geographical knowledge, was very true and very correct, but he should recollect, that it was in order to obviate that objection the Government sent Commissioners to those towns. They had received the fullest instructions, and the House was now in possession of the result of their inquiries. This information was quite sufficient to enable the House to decide upon the question, and he did not see why they should postpone the settlement of those boundaries—a subject which so vitally affected the practical operation of the bill. It was impossible the House could be in possession of better information upon the question than that which had been afforded by their own commissioners, and he therefore did not at all concur in the feeling, that there existed the slightest necessity for postponing its consideration. He was of opinion that the decision of the Commissioners was deserving of the greatest attention, and that the boundaries which they had marked out ought to be adhered to.
 Mr. Hume  regretted extremely, that the noble Lord had consented to raise the franchise at all; but, when he found that his very reasonable offer of a compromise was not accepted, he ought, at once, to have adopted the course of taking the English franchise altogether. He, for
 913 l.
 Mr. Ball  moved, that all the words after the words "would have had a right to be admitted," in page 4, line 9, should be omitted, with the view of substituting others.
 Mr. Ball  proposed to leave out "words introduced by the Lords," which went to limit the rating to the relief of the poor and to substitute words which included all cesses and rates.
 Mr. Ball  moved, that the Lords' amendment be rejected, and the clause restored.
 Mr. Sheil  supported the proposition for its postponement. There was a great deal of difficulty in finally determining this question, and that difficulty would certainly rather decrease than increase. The Commissioners had recommended in some cases new boundaries. The boundaries which they mentioned were not in all cases the same as the Parliamentary boundaries, and this was not a difference to be settled with precipitation by gentlemen unacquainted with the locality or geographical position of those towns referred to, or which would be affected. It required a good deal of information in order to be able to give a correct opinion upon such a subject as that. Were the Government not to interfere? Were they to be  estopped 906
 Mr. Sheil  did not see how the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) could get over the statement which had just been made by his hon. and learned Friend, which was derived from indisputable returns, and which had been already stated in another place, and had not been denied. With respect to Liverpool, the reason of the equal relation of the municipal and Parliamentary voters might be, that the freemen were Parliamentary voters. Now, with respect to the noble Lord's difficulty in applying the English franchise on account of the three years' rating, he would ask the noble Lord this question—would he consent, that in 1841, taking a ten-pound rate, the English system should come into operation, and that in the mean time the Scotch plan should be resorted to? Did the noble Lord think, that the English system was one which could ever be applicable to Ireland? and if not, let the noble Lord tell the reason why it was not. Suppose a case. He let a house to a man at 8 l., l. l. 916 l. 917 l. l., l. 918
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose amidst loud cries of "divide!" He said, that the hon. Baronet who had just sat down must either condemn or acquit corporations. If he condemned them, there was no sacrifice in destroying them, and if he acquitted them, surely nothing ought to have induced him to consent to make a sacrifice of them. But the truth was, that the Gentlemen opposite condemned the corporations of Ireland, they saw that they were indefensible, and that the time was come when no Gentleman in that House could rise and refer to facts and statements in defence of the present corporations of Ireland. That was the real key to the sacrifice. But to come to the real point before the House, which was, in fact, the most essential part of the bill, and let Gentlemen before they divided upon this clause, consider well what it contained, and the manner in which it came before the House. In the first place, he would admit that an extension of the franchise might not always be good in itself, and he was further willing to admit, that under the clause as proposed by the other House, they might practically get a larger number of voters, but by con-
 920 No, no! 921 l. l.
 Sir James Graham  could not concur with the hon. and learned Gentleman, with respect to the necessity or propriety of postponement. He was of opinion, that the effect of postponement, instead of doing good, would be more calculated to produce a contrary effect, for he had not forgotten the experience of the English bill. In that case, the question was postponed, and the greatest inconvenience had arisen from the postponement. If the question of boundaries required to be discussed, that was the period for its discussion, and he could not consent to its postponement. The hon. Members at that side of the House were only anxious to have the question settled, in order that the law might be applied without doubt or cavil, and there was sufficient information before the House to enable them to decide the question at once. The commissioners, who were to be supposed as best capable of judging, had made a most judicious examination of the several localities, and the House was in possession of the report which they had made, and the boundaries they had recommended. He thought this was the time to discuss the question, if it required any discussion, and to come to a conclusion upon it.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that the hon. and
 919 l. l.
 Sir Robert Peel  objected to the amendment, because he thought that it was right for Parliament to define the boundaries; they ought to have full discussion upon the subject, but they ought not to invest an executive officer with this power. This power might be exercised honestly, but there was a great temptation to the contrary. He (Sir R. Peel) for one, was quite content to adopt the boundaries as laid down by their (the Ministers') own commissioners.
 Sir Robert Peel  begged to observe to hon. Gentlemen that the noble Lord had introduced an entirely new principle into his amendment. He did not propose that the principle adopted in England, that the landlord's repairs, and insurance, and other charges necessary to support the
 910 bona fide l. 911 l., l., 912
 Sir R. Peel  begged the noble Lord to take care; for the words to which he objected, and upon which he now declared his remark had been founded, were in fact his own. [Lord  J. Russell: "And be it enacted, that any person who now is or hereafter may be an inhabitant of any borough, and also any person who has been admitted, or who might hereafter have been admitted a freeman or burgess of any borough, if this act had not been passed, shall have and enjoy and be entitled to acquire and enjoy the same share and benefit of the lands, &c., of which any person in any body corporate may be seized or possessed for any charitable uses or trust, as fully and effectually as he or she, by any charter, statute, &c., in force at the passing of this act, might or could have enjoyed in case this act had not been passed." 894 895 896 897 898 899 l. l. 900 l. l. l. John Russell 901 l. l. l. l., l. 902 903
 Sir Robert Peel  would have been perfectly content to discuss the merits of each of the amendments proposed by the Lords upon the individual clauses which contained them; and he could not help thinking, that that course would have been infinitely better than the one taken by the noble Lord. The noble Lord, however, had adopted a line of proceeding which precluded him from taking the course which his own sense of expediency and justice would have dictated, and had enlarged in undue, unjustifiable, and, he thought, unwise sarcasms upon the authors of those amendmentsh—sarcasms which, however they might have been intended, were calculated, if possible, to throw obstructions in the way of the settlement of this important question. The noble Lord began his speech by a sarcasm upon the House of Lords for having changed their opinion with respect to Irish corporations. The noble Lord began by stating, that the Lords had heretofore withheld corporations from Ire-
 888 889 l, 890 891 892 Iago 893
 Viscount Morpeth  said, that the proposition of Government was founded upon the opinion that an indiscriminate mode of fixing the franchise was much less liable to misconception and confusion than one which varied with circumstances. From the right hon. Baronet's statement, it appeared that a great difference existed in England in the accounts of allowance in the rating; and he (Viscount Morpeth) thought it would be found, that in the gross there would be no great disproportion between the proposal of the right hon. Baronet and that of her Majesty's Government. The right hon. Baronet said, he wished to follow the course followed in England. Now, he and his friends had often said, that they were ready to take the English municipal franchise. But, as they were to take a franchise depending on rating, at any rate it should not be according to a rule which would make the franchise much higher than that of England.
 Viscount Morpeth  agreed with the right hon. Baronet, that they ought to view this question with constitutional jealousy. But what alternative had they, except to adopt this amendment? It was true, that the Lords had adopted the report of the Commissioners, and that he (Viscount Morpeth) had introduced a bill founded upon it; but ever since he had introduced it, he had been assailed from all parts with a charge of having acted unfairly and unjustly, and he did not think that it was fair to hurry through Parliament, by a single vote, this important question, without giving an opportunity to the House to state their objections. One town, Limerick, had already petitioned the House against the boundary line proposed for that town, as being unjust, and Government had been charged with corruption in favouring my Lord This, and slighting Mr. That; and he, therefore, saw no alternative in the present state of their proceedings, except by giving this power to the Lord-lieutenant, to be exercised in cases in which it should be imperatively called for, or of postponing the whole question of the boundaries to a future year.
 Lord Stanley  said, that in effect this would be to bring back the bill in this respect to its original state. He approved of this amendment of the Lords, and he hoped the House would concur in it. As the bill went up to the Lords, the power was given to the Lord Chancellor to appoint trustees, provided, that by the end of a year after the passing of the bill Parliament should not have otherwise determined. Now, he had a strong objection to resting the appointment of the trustees of charitable trusts in the Lord Chancellor, who was a political functionary, and must be supposed to be under the influence of political feelings and prejudices.
 Mr. Goulbourn  denied, that the old corporate bodies would be influenced by such strong political bias as the Lord Chancellor. It should be understood that the corporations were the trustees originally selected by the founders of the charities, as persons most likely to advance the interests of the trust, and he thought it would be most unjust to remove the powers legally intrusted to them, and vest those powers in the Lord Chancellor, who, from the nature of his appointment, must have strong political feelings. He was determined to support the amendments discreetly introduced into the clause by the other House.
 Mr. O'Connell  expressed great surprise at the remark of the noble Lord (Stanley), that the Irish Corporations had not abused the trust vested in them. Had it not been proved that a sum of 2,900 l., l. l. 988 l. l. 989
 Lord Stanley  said, if there were any measure on which the House took care that the most deliberate caution should be exercised, it was one that involved taxation. Yet here was a clause which proposed to levy a new and compulsory tax on the people of Ireland submitted to the House without the least previous notice, without preliminary consideration in a Committee, and without passing through any of those other stages which were necessary in the case of all enactments relating to money. It was very questionable whether they had the power of considering the clause in point of form, and it was most unquestionable that they ought not to consider it in point of justice.
 Mr. O'Connell  concurred in the principle stated by the right hon. Baronet, that religious trusts should be in the hands of persons professing that religion; but the clause went further, and would tend to introduce religious exclusions. The superintendence would be in the hands of Protestants, and that would suffice. The visitors of Maynooth College (except one or two) were Protestants; the visitors of charitable donations were all Protestants, so there would be sufficient superintendence. As the clause stood, it was an offence to Protestant Dissenters, and especially to Roman Catholics.
 Colonel Perceval  seconded the amendment, but thought it was rather too late in the Session to have any practical good result from the Committee.
 Mr. Pryme  supported the bill, as enabling litigant parties to avail themselves of the evidence of witnesses who had religious scruples against the taking of oaths.
 The Attorney General  regretted that such petty legislation should take place on so important a subject, as he felt convinced that the only remedy for existing evils would be a general bill, not for the abolition of oaths altogether (for to that he for one was not prepared to assent), but to enable all those who entertained a religious scruple to the taking of an oath to give evidence on a solemn affirmation, which such individuals considered would be as binding upon them to speak the truth, and which would be attended with the same secular and penal consequences if they did not, as if they had been guilty of perjury. A general measure must ere long meet the approbation of the Legislature, for numerous sects were almost of daily growth, and their claims on the ground of religious scruples were too strong to be resisted. He could not see the distinction between a man who had been a Quaker or Moravian, and another who still continued of those sects—the latter was exempted, while, however, the other would be disabled by his scruples from giving evidence. Thus, in many cases, justice was defeated, and in the absence of a general measure, he should support the present bill.
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the bill, and said that a Committee of that House had decided in favour of the grocers having the power of selling spirits. It had, however, afterwards been reported that they had abused the privilege, but a deputation which they had sent over had proved that that report was unjust. He trusted that the House would consent to allow the grocers another year to dispose of their stock, and in that time they and the Legislature would have ample time to make arrangements for the future.
 Lord J. Russell  must say, that he thought the tone of complaint adopted by the noble Lord and right hon. Gentleman opposite rather extraordinary. This was a bill sent down from the House of Lords with ninety-two new clauses. The noble Lord had already told them, when another amendment was under consideration, that it would be an insult to the House of Lords to replace in the bill the words originally fixed upon by the House of Commons. Well, he did not now propose to insist on the original proposition; he was willing that some thirty or forty towns, to which by the provisions of the House of Commons' bill corporations would have been extended, should be deprived of them; he accepted the proposal of the Lords, and then he was told, that he ought to have abstained from making this proposal, because it was new. Then, if they were not to do either of those things, there could be nothing left for them except to agree word for word to every one of those ninety-two clauses inserted by the Lords, and to express their unqualified
 992 l. l. l. l., l. 993
 Lord J. Russell  said, in reply, that he proposed to withdraw, at the end of the clause, the words that "no use or trust for supplying water should be deemed a use or trust under this Act."
 Lord J. Russell  said, he did not claim for his noble Friend, the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, or for any other Lord Chancellor, a total exemption from the influence of political feelings; but let him ask, were the old corporators so far removed from all such influence as to be the best depositaries of those trusts? To him it appeared that they, without comparison, were much more objectionable on the ground of political feelings than a Lord Chancellor. He thought it would be much better to adhere to the old clause than to agree to the amendments sent down by the noble Lords.
 Lord J. Russell  moved the Order of the Day for resuming the consideration of the Lords' amendments to this bill.
 Mr. P. Thomson  observed, that this measure had been introduced in another place by a noble Lord of opposite politics to himself, and yet had passed unanimously. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) had said, it would be better to decide at once if oaths were to be abolished entirely, and he certainly agreed with him, and would most willingly have carried a measure of that kind, but he could not get it. One or two bills of this kind that had been introduced into the other House had been all rejected from their going too far. He himself was willing to have a general measure, but he was unable to carry it. The right hon. Gentleman now said, he should dissent from any such measure, though he
 999
 Mr. Harvey  did not mean to take part in this discussion farther than to ask a question. He saw, by the Report, that the names of the persons who were to have pensions granted them, were to be printed by the next Session. Now, what he wished to know was, Whether this was done, that Members might have an opportunity of challenging the grants, or merely with the view of giving information as to those who were the recipients of the royal bounty? Because, if it were for the latter purpose, it would be of no use; but, if for the former, it would meet the suggestion of his hon. Friend. He had not the pleasure of hearing the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in introducing this subject, but he had the curiosity to read it, and he could not help thinking, that the right hon. Gentleman was too covetous in monopolising all the credit of having the inquiry instituted. Indeed, he had heard, that a public meeting was contemplated by those in the receipt of pensions, for the purpose of having their thanks returned to those through whose exertions a committee of inquiry had been appointed. Now, he must put in his claim for a share in this disinterested eulogy, because it could not be forgotten, that the right hon. Gentleman, Session after Session opposed inquiry, and that one of the arguments which he had unsuccessfully urged in favour of such a proceeding was, that some of the fairest forms, as well as the homeliest matrons would be saved from unjust imputation. He was quite willing to concede, on the one hand, that a great number had produced evidence well calculated to remove all suspicion as to the source of the grants, and as to the right of their continuance; but, on the other hand, there was no satisfactory evidence given which could induce the House to recognise many of those claims. Indeed, he was astonished, that any pension had been withheld at all; for with one exception (of the character of whose claim one might judge from the unanimity with which it was rejected), none of the parties were called on to produce any parol evidence. There was not a pauper who received his one or two shillings a-week, and whose name appeared on an union list which underwent the inspection of the guardians of the poor, who if written
 982
 Mr. Shaw  was sorry to go into a discussion of subjects not entirely belonging to the bill before the House, but he must say, in answer to the hon. and learned Member for Dublin, that what he had stated with respect to the Pipe-water Charity was in substance a misrepresentation; for the defalcation which he had spoken of, was wholly a matter of accounts, and there was no charge or proof whatever of fraud. Now as to this property being corporation property, he should only say, that in the Court of Chancery, and also in the Rolls, it had been declared to be the absolute property of the Corporation, after the trusts for which it had been given, were performed. Did the hon. and learned Gentleman mean to say, that the Lords in their amendment, intended to divest the Corporations, either new or old, of this property? For if so, he should say, that it was not their intention, and that it would be most unjust and most unfair to do it. The question indeed, was, whether the trustees should be filled up by the Lord Chancellor, or by the appointment which had been made at a given time. There was, however, one great improvement in this clause, which consisted in vesting the property in the governing body only of the corporation, and not in the whole corporation. He wished to hear from the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell) whether the funds of the Pipe-water Charity were to be taken from the Corporation of Dublin or not?
 Mr. Shaw  opposed the motion, as he considered that a measure of this sort would be productive of the worst consequences. He did not mean to cast any reflection upon the grocers of Ireland, because he knew that they were a most respectable class of individuals, and he only objected to this measure because he felt that by so doing he was performing his duty to the public. What he objected to was, that the grocers should be allowed to sell spirits to be drunk upon the premises when those premises were not licensed as public-houses, and consequently not subject to the public-house regulations. He thought the conduct of the Government in regard to this measure totally inexcusable, as they had given him to understand that they would oppose this bill, while they now supported it, although he was persuaded that they and every other authority allowed that such a system as this bill would continue for another year, ought to be put an end to. He was willing to accord ample time for the grocers to dispose of their stock of spirits, but two years had already been granted for that purpose, and, under all the circumstances of the case, he felt bound to oppose the further progress of the measure, and he should give it his most strenuous opposition in every stage.
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to the principle of the bill because it was retrospective, inasmuch as it extended the exemption from taking an oath to all those who had ever been at any period of their lives Quakers or Moravians. This mode of dealing out exemption by measure after measure was most paltry, and although he was of opinion that oaths were not only lawful, but did much to elicit truth, yet it would be better to pass a general measure embracing all classes.
 The Speaker  said, it appeared to him that the existing regulations of the House were inadequate to meet cases of this nature and it was absolutely necessary, if the course now proposed with respect to inserting this clause were to be adopted generally, that the House should institute some other mode of proceeding more calculated than their present mode to meet the exigencies of such cases as this. He knew of no mode of proceeding among the existing regulations which was calculated to give satisfaction in this case. As to the question which had been put to him, he was not able to state an opinion, because he did not know the facts; but if he were to take the statement of the right hon. Baronet, he should say, that there might be very great room for doubt, whether or not the House could adopt this amendment in this stage of the proceedings. If the difficulty which had been stated by the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for the Home Department, should arise, then the proper course would be, that the House resolve itself into a Committee of the whole House, to consider the amendments, and that, he must say, to him, did seem to be the best course to adopt.
 Mr. E. Tennent  moved the order of the day for the House to go into Committee on the Spirit Licences (Ireland) Bill.
 Mr. Ellis  said, he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He (Mr. Ellis) held in his hand a copy of the second Report of the Railway Commissioners for Ireland, addressed "to the Queen's most excellent Majesty," and in a note at the end of page 93 he found the following—
 "So long back as in December, 1836, a body of capitalists, represented by Pierce Mahony, Esq., after an interview with the chief secretary, communicated to the commissioners a readiness to undertake any lines to the south-west that they should recommend, and offered to contribute 1,000 l. 979 "This is, no doubt, true, and we must think, that these gentlemen deserve credit for their forbearance. We have added the two letters to our appendix."
 Mr. Hume  said, that knowing the great interest which the public took on the subject of pensions, he was anxious, that any arrangement which might now take place should be such as to give that satisfaction which the public had a right to expect from this proceeding. He wished, therefore, to propose, that instead of proceeding with the bill now, the Chancellor of the Exchequer should, as a former Chancellor of Exchequer had done, take a vote for whatever was requisite to pay the pensions, and bring in a measure early next Session to settle the whole question. The advantage of the course which he submitted was this—that Members would have an opportunity of seeing what was done in Committee, and of judging of the claims of those who were allowed to remain, as well as those who were removed. He had no hesitation in saying, that he differed very much from many of the decisions at
 980
 Mr. Hume  said, that precluded the possibility of his agreeing to the measure. He wished to know whether there would be any objection to lay on the Table the opinion of the law officers of the Crown as to this bill. He was not satisfied with what had been done, and he appealed in justification of his dissatisfaction to the case of the pension of a certain marchioness, on which there was not a difference of opinion in the Committee, but that it ought to be struck off the list. But they were told that, as the law stood, could not be done.
 Mr. Hume  did not think, that he had been treated with perfect fairness by the right hon. Gentleman, who stated, that he had acceded to the report of the committee, without adding, that he was to be found in the minority on many of the resolutions. For instance, he was to be found in a minority of three to ten on the question whether the daughter and sister of a Peer should be continued on the list, and also when the question was as to the continuance of the pension of a lady whose husband had 18,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  asked, whether the pensions granted during the reign of the Queen would be binding on the present Sovereign only?
 Mr. Ball  objected to that part of the amendments by which charitable trusts were to continue to be vested in the present corporators during their lives or until Parliament should otherwise determine. He moved, that the Committee disagree from that amendment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the civil list of her Majesty had been settled wholly apart and distinct from the list of pensions. That was the recommendation of the Civil-list Committee, and that was the principle on which the late Committee had proceeded. In respect of pensions granted by her Majesty, he could tell the hon. Member, that in case of a certain melancholy event, to which he would not more particularly allude, they would again come under consideration. But those pensions to which the present bill referred had no connexion with the life of her Majesty in any possible respect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the principle of laying opinions of the law officers of the Crown on the Table of that House had always been much objected to. Besides, the cases to which the opinion of which the hon. Member had spoken referred were all stated in the Report, and they were by no means numerous. The case mentioned by the hon. Gentleman was, undoubtedly, one of those which ought to have been struck off, but the Committee felt, that to recommend its abolition in the present state of the law would be, to commit a violation of the rule on which all rights of property depend.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he meant no disrespect to the hon. Member for Kilkenny when he said, that he never felt more astonishment than at hearing such a speech as that which he had just delivered, particularly when he recollected, that the hon. Gentleman was most sedulous in his attendance in the committee, not being absent a single day, and that he was a party to the Report, which was carried without a dissentient voice. There might be some ground for the argument of the hon. Member if the authority of the committee went for nothing; but when they sat thirty or forty days, and no effort was spared to arrive at the exact truth, he thought the report of that body to which
 981
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt bound to give a frank answer to the question which had been put to him by the hon. Gentleman. The view with which he intended to lay the returns which had been referred to on the Table next year, was simply this, that the House might see whether the Government carried into effect
 983
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware of the fact to which the hon. Member had called the attention of the House, but he would make inquiries on the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the proposition of his noble Friend was rendered necessary, by the amendments introduced by the Lords. The House had heard the objection that this clause gave a taxing power, and that it ought, therefore, to be previously considered in a Committee of the whole House. But the fact was, that this clause contained no taxing power whatever, except what was contained in the bill as sent up from the House of Commons, and that power was proposed to be
 995
 Sir F. Trench  rose, pursuant to his notice, to move for a select Committee to inquire into those cases in which the Irish Government had offered rewards for the apprehension or conviction of offenders against the laws, and in which such rewards or any portion of them have not been paid after such apprehension or conviction, and into the causes why they have been withheld. The hon. and gallant officer observed, that the system of offering rewards for the apprehension or conviction of offenders and not paying them, tended to give to the Irish people a notion that the Government was not in earnest in enforcing the laws. Many instances had occurred where rewards had been offered, and where the parties who had claims to those rewards had received only the half, and in others only a fifth, of the reward offered. One man had got not a fifth of the offered reward, and when he stated, that he had exposed his life to danger in the conviction of the offender, he was told that his life could not have been in danger as he was still alive. The effect of this refusal to pay the reward in full would be to discourage persons from all attempts to detect and bring offenders to justice. In one case a man named Kelly had been murdered in Kildare. A reward of 50 l. l. l. 998
 Sir J. Graham  said, before the House went to a vote, he was anxious to ascertain from the chair, whether in point of form at this stage of the proceedings it was competent to propose a clause of this nature, involving a question of taxation, for insertion in any Bill. With respect to the last assertion of the noble Lord, he utterly denied that any such power as the noble Lord spoke of, was contained in the Bill as sent up to the House of Lords.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) was quite mistaken as to the common-law prerogative of the Crown in respect of grants of pensions. By the common law the Crown could alienate any of the real property and revenues of the Crown. That was the ancient and undoubted prerogative of the Crown, and that prerogative was only limited and restrained so late as the reign of Queen Anne, since which none of the English possessions of the Crown could be alienated beyond the life of the reigning Sovereign. There was no such restriction
 985
 The Attorney-General  agreed in the principle of this clause. He thought that where there was a charity belonging to the Church of England it was improper that its funds should be administered by Ca-
 990 mutatis mutandis.
 Sir R. Inglis  opposed the bill, inasmuch as it would enable every person to come into a court of justice, and exempt himself, on the simple declaration that he had belonged either to the Society of Friends or the sect of Moravians, from that test of truth to which others were liable. The bill dispensed with that superstitious feeling which those conversant with courts of justice well knew was attached to the solemnity of an oath by witnesses generally, and he therefore joined with his right hon. Friend in opposing its further progress.
 Sir R. Peel  contended, that the amendments proposed by the noble Lord would really not have the effect of introducing the provisions of the act of the 9th of George 4th. The inhabitants of the towns to which that act was applicable, had it in their own option to accept its provision or not. It required, first, that an application should be made by the 20 l. 991 J. Russell.
 Sir R. Peel  said, he should be content with the clause if it stood as he originally proposed—that is, without any specific reference to Roman Catholics. He should not think it necessary to make any specific provision with respect to Protestant Dissenters. He should be content to enact that, where there was any money left under charitable trusts, exclusively applicable to religious education, according to the principles of the Protestant Church of Great Britain and Ireland, the trustees should be of the established Church without any specific exception as to Roman Catholics.
 Sir R. Peel  must say, he had never heard a greater msrepresentation, or one more unfair to himself and his noble Friend, than that made by the noble Lord. Had he objected in any way to the rejection of the amendments of the House of Lords, to the competency of that House to deal with them as they pleased? No such thing; he had himself proposed, in the course of the evening, important alterations in the amendments of the Lords; but he had objected to the course taken by the noble Lord in calling upon them to adopt an important principle without the slightest notice. Nothing could have been easier than for the noble Lord to have given the regular and usual notice; but instead of doing so, he had called on the House summarily to decide whether the 9th of George 4th should be forced on certain towns in Ireland without consulting their wishes; and this convinced him that either the regulations of the House were defective, or the conduct of the noble Lord was objectionable. But the noble Lord had found it convenient, in order to raise a cheer from those behind him, to mistake altogether the tenour of their objections, and to assume that he had asserted that the House of Commons had no right to alter amendments made in a bill by the Lords, and that the noble Lord was called upon to bow his neck to their yoke. He had said nothing of the kind—nothing that could justify such an interpretation.
 Sir R. Peel  wished to say a few words in reference to the subject immediately before the House. The sum the Committee had to deal with was about 138,000 l. l., 986
 The Solicitor-General  contended, that the system of appointing charitable trustees in England had not been a failure; on the contrary, it had given every satisfaction. He denied, that the Lord Chancellor was at all actuated by political bias in making those appointments. He sate in his court to decide on all cases referring to charitable trusts, with feelings of as little partiality as if he were deciding in any case brought under his consideration as the chief law officer in the country. He heard all petitions on the subject as the presiding judge of the Court of Chancery, and not as the partisan of the Government; but if the trusts were vested in the ex-corporators, who had left office with excited and angry feelings, great party bias would prevail.
 Lord Clements  said, he felt compelled, although reluctantly, to support the motion of the right hon. Gentleman, and resist the further progress of this bill.
 Viscount Morpeth  regretted, that there was so great a disproportion between the rewards offered and those paid; but the Government did not depart from the practice adopted by their predecessors. He thought it judicious that before rewards were paid the stipendiary magistrates should be consulted, and that the evidence taken in the courts of justice should be considered. If witnesses who had prevaricated were to receive all the rewards offered, it would establish a precedent that would frustrate, instead of advance, the ends of justice.
 Viscount Morpeth  maintained, that his noble Friend had not made the slightest misrepresentation. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had twice that evening objected to making alterations in the amendments of the Lords, and the right hon. Baronet had inferred from the proposal of those alterations, that Government was determined not to have the Bill passed. He contended that his noble Friend, in his speech last night, had given ample notice of his intention to submit the proposition now before the House. Why! the right hon. Baronet had raised the objection, and said, that he disliked this very part of the proposition of the noble
 994
 Sir H. Vivian  was sorry that the hon. Member should have applied the term "disgraceful" to this bill, which he considered was most just and proper. The amount of the present duty on tin was not so much the grievance complained of as the vexatious and inconvenient proceedings which were connected with it.
 Lord Eliot  begged to corroborate, as far as his knowledge went, the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The noble Lord concluded by expressing his regret at the necessarily tardy introduction of this measure.
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that although it was his intention to support the resolution in the present stage, he should be sorry to do so on the principle set forth by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was his intention in a future stage to propose the reduction of the duty. He would support the resolution because he felt convinced, that it would never be adopted in any other reign. If he had been the responsible adviser of the Crown he would have given his assent to the proposition. He thought it wrong to take from the Crown and place on the Consolidated Fund the hereditary revenues of the country.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  entirely agreed with the noble Lord that they were justified in making the transfer, solely because they had no hope of reducing the duties on tin without resorting to some arrangement of that sort.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the resolutions, which he characterised as most extraordinary. A resolution had been secretly introduced at midnight to take 22,000 l. l., l., l. l. 1003 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that however he might be induced by the conduct and example of the hon. Gentleman to indulge in language as strong as that which he had felt himself justified in using, he knew too well the respect which he owed to the House and to the usages and feelings of gentlemanly society, to pursue the same course as the hon. Gentleman. Even if he were to condescend to follow his example, he doubted whether he should produce any salutary effect. He would, therefore simply confine himself to a true statement of the facts of the case, and he was willing to constitute hon. Members his jury. If they acquitted the hon. Member and condemned him, that acquittal would only arise from their being able to trace to the hon. Member such an absence of all memory and recollection as would protect him from the imputation of falsehood, but would leave him open to the imputation of the most unparalleled and inexcusable ignorance. He wished to call the attention of the House to the principle on which this resolution was founded. The measure was neither unjust to the public, nor one which the House had any right to complain of. A few months ago a public meeting had been held in Cornwall, from which a petition had been sent to that House, complaining of the grievances of the present tin duties in Cornwall, and praying they might be abolished, and compensation granted to the Crown for the net amount they produced. The bill had been introduced in conformity with the prayer of that petition. On the first discussion with regard to the civil list, this proposition
 1004 l, l. 1005
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved, that
 1002 "1. That the duties of customs payable on the importation of tin and tin ore shall cease, and, in lieu thereof, the following duties shall be paid, that is to say— 
 
 £ s. d. 
 "Tin, the cwt 0 15 0 
 "Tin ore, for every 100 l. 10 0 0 "2. That the duties payable on the coinage of tin in the counties of Cornwall and Devon shall be abolished. "3. That in lieu of the coinage duties on tin, in the counties of Cornwall and Devon, the Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury be authorized to direct the issue to her Majesty, or the personage entitled to the revenues of the duchy of Cornwall, of an annual stun out of the consolidated fund equal to the net average annual amount of the said coinage duties. "4. That the commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury be authorized to make compensations out of the consolidated fund, to all officers and others employed in relation to the said coinage duties, for any loss they may sustain by the abolition thereof."
 Sir C. Lemon  thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had defended himself perfectly from the attack of the hon. Member for Kilkenny. The Cornish Members wished for no concealment, and had made none.
 Mr. O'Connell  moved, that the passing of the bill be deferred till to-morrow, in order that he might have an opportunity of bringing up a clause relating to Lady Westmeath's pension. It was quite impossible that any man could say a word in disparagement of that lady, but he thought, under the peculiar circumstances of her case, that her pension should not be continued during the lifetime of her husband. Lady Westmeath had lately passed through a most afflicting ordeal; she had obtained from an ecclesiastical court a decree of separation from her husband, on the ground of his cruelty against her. It was therefore, he thought, right that the pension should be suspended, inasmuch as it was in fact paid to her husband, not to herself. Sir John Nicholl, on decreeing a separation between the parties, had assigned Lady Westmeath, besides her pension of 385 l. l. l., l. 1015 scire facias,
 Mr. Aglionby  moved the restitution of what had been Clause three in the original bill, and which was omitted by the Lords. The object of the Clause was, to prevent persons holding a benefice of the amount of 1,000 l. l. vice versâ,
 Mr. O'Connell  supported the bill. There had been ten or eleven divisions on the bill already; and he thought the House ought not to countenance the system of opposition pursued by the right hon. Gentleman in regard to this bill. A Committee of that House had reported in favour of the grocers, and when it was proposed to take from them the privilege of selling spirits, a deputation from that body had satisfied the Government of the injustice of such a proceeding. The grocers in Dublin might be prepared for terminating their retail trade in spirits, but in the country towns an immediate prohibition would be productive of ruin to many, as they were not aware that such a measure was even contemplated. All they wanted was one year more, to enable them to take their capital out of this branch of their trade, and to dispose of the stock on hand. He might mention to the House, that not a single grocer had lost his licence for misconduct, and he did therefore hope, that they would consent to allow the bill to proceed.
 Lord J. Russell  agreed that the Clause was a very useful Clause, and regretted its omission. Hereafter it might be proper and necessary to legislate on the subject, but at present he was not inclined to disagree with the Lords' Amendment in this particular.
 Lord John Russell  admitted, that the clause was generally approved of by that
 1017
 Mr. Hawes  wished for the restoration of the clause and he moved to disagree with the Lords. The clause had received the general assent of the House of Commons, and ought not to be omitted.
 Mr. Lucas  would give his most determined opposition to the measure, as he believed the mischiefs of the system of permitting grocers to sell spirits could not be got rid of in any other way than by throwing out the bill. The hon. and learned Member for Dublin had stated, that no grocer had lost his licence for misconduct, but it was impossible to find the grocers guilty of improper conduct, because they had not the same power over them as over the keepers of public-houses.
 Mr. Shaw  repeated his objections to the bill, on the ground of the immoral effect
 1018
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  resisted the proposition. If such a clause were permitted, it would overturn the unanimous decision of the Committee.
 The Attorney-General  was glad to find that the hon. and learned Member agreed with him in the opinion he had given respecting the Irish pensions, but on that very ground, he must see that such a clause as he suggested, would be inexpedient and even unjust. This was a legal pension, to which Lady Westmeath was entitled during her lifetime, of which nothing but an Act of Parliament could deprive her, and surely it would not be just to deprive an individual by an Act of Parliament of a vested right.
 Sir W. Somerville  would give his vote in favour of going into Committee upon the bill, because he wished the grocers to have an opportunity of disposing of their stock; but he thought the system of permitting grocers to sell spirits ought to be put an end to.
 Mr. Aglionby  was surprised at the attempt to legislate without that information which might have been obtained, and, for himself, he could not see why the amount of duty should not be reduced to 12 s., s.,
 Sir Hussey Vivian  contended, that it was the duty of Parliament to look to the interests of the workmen of this country; and that by adopting a low rate of duty, many persons in Cornwall would necessarily be thrown out of employment. He, therefore, called upon the House to adopt the proposition of the Government, and to negative the amendment of the noble Lord opposite.
 Lord Eliot  said, that this was a question of itself, and ought not to be disposed of on the principles of a free trade, but on a due consideration of the peculiar nature of the mines, and the necessity of constantly working them. He did not know whether it would be better to fix the duty at 12 s. s.,
 Lord G. Somerset  felt he should best
 1056
 Lord Granville Somerset  did not wish to interrupt the hon. Gentleman in stating his own views upon the subject; but when he entered into circumstances of which the committee alone was cognizant, and of which the House as yet knew nothing, lie put it to the Speaker, and to the House, whether the hon. Gentleman was treating either the committee or the subject quite fairly.
 Lord Granville Somerset , pursuant to notice, moved, that the import duty on foreign tin be reduced to 12 s. s. s.
 Mr. Hawes  thought, that although the miners and the manufacturers might agree in fixing the amount, yet the interests of the public, the consumers ought to be taken care of also; and from the representations made to him, he thought that the duty of 15 s.
 Mr. Poulett Thomson  said, he had been most anxious for a long time to procure a reduction of duty on tin; but he had been hitherto successfully opposed, because of the local burdens, and the fear of the operation which such a reduction might have upon the mines. But when the time arrived for a reduction of the duty, coupled with a reduction of the dues, he had stated to the miners that if these dues were taken and charged on the consolidated fund there must be such a reduction of duty as would be likely to make up the deficiency to the revenue. His opinion, however, was, that they would be ultimately compelled to make a further reduction of duty; but this was no more an argument for a duty of 12 s. s. 1055 s.
 The Speaker  had not had the good fortune to collect much of what had fallen from the hon. Member, but the greater part of that which he had heard certainly appeared to him to relate to matters of which the committee was exclusively in possession. The report of the committee was now placed upon the Table. If the hon. Member dissented from any part of it, it would be competent to him to state his objections at length on some future day, after the report had been printed and placed in the hands of the House; but he put it to the hon. Member whether, at the present moment, it was either fair or reasonable to enter into a long discussion on a report of the contents of which the House was not yet in possession.
 Mr. Fielden  said, he could not let this report be brought up without saying a few words of the manner in which the committee had conducted the investigation, and upon that document which was the result of it. His proposition was, that the committee should examine those who nobody could doubt were the best witnesses—the labouring people and the rate payers. He proposed at the first meeting of the committee that they should procure certain returns from those unions in which the rates had been reduced 50 per cent. This was objected to, upon the ground that the returns would be too elaborate to be allowed, and too difficult to procure. He then proposed they should take those unions in which the reduction had been 60 per cent.; and the first three on the list of this description being Ampthill, Bedford and Woburn, the committee ordered the returns from those unions. He (Mr. Fielden) sent two men down into Bedfordshire to make inquiries as to the condition of the people, whom the returns showed to be deprived of parochial relief, under the new law; and he was in hopes that the committee would have gone into a full examination of the rate-payers and labourers of those unions, as well as into the examina-
 1046 1047 l. s. d. l. s., "That so far from the real interests of all classes having been consulted by the administration of the Poor-law Amendment Act, as expressed in page twenty-fire of their report, the interests of the poor have suffered by the withdrawal of relief and reductions of wages, as appears by the evidence (15,305, 15,318, 15,361 Ceeley, and 16,472 and 16,474 Rauron, and 14,345 and 14,349, 14,353, 14,354, 14,370, 14,479, and 14,480 Overman). The statement of weekly wages paid for farm labourers during four years, by Mr. T. W. Overman, accompanied by the list of labourers in his employment from July 1834, to July 1835, and from July 1837 to July 1838, in the former of which years he had twenty men and thirteen boys, and in the latter twenty-six men and eleven boys, shows the following result: In this calculation five shillings per week only are allowed for the boys, in both years, although Mr. Overman in his evidence, 14,378, says boys' wages had been advanced. 
 
 1384 AND 1835. 
 £. s. d. 
 Thirteen boys, each 52 weeks, or 676 weeks for one boy at 5 s. 169 0 0 1048 
 
 Brought forward 169 0 0 
 Twenty men, each 52 weeks, or 1,040 weeks for one man at 11 s. d. 606 13 4 
 775 13 4 
 Amount paid as per Mr. Overman's statement 775 6 4 
 1837 and 1838. 
 Eleven boys, each 52 weeks, or 572 weeks for one boy at 5 s. 143 0 0 
 Twenty six men, each 52 weeks, or 1,352 weeks for one man, at 10 s. d. 726 14 0 
 869 14 0 
 Amount paid as per Mr. Overman's statement, 870 8 0 A reduction of labourers' wages in money of from 11 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1049 s. d. 1050 s. d. s. s. s. d. 1051 1052
 Mr. P. Scrope , from the more immediate vicinity of his seat to that of the hon. Member had enjoyed the singular advantage of hearing much that had fallen from him, and he begged to assure the House that the hon. Member had gone through the greater part of the report, and had raised an objection to every page of it. Amongst other things the hon. Member had complained of the want of due attention, on the part of the committee, to the evidence adduced before them. Now, of all the members of the committee, the
 1053
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  concurred with the noble Lord in thinking that if the duty on foreign tin were such as to give to the Cornish miners a monopoly, they would in fact be putting into the pockets of the miners the amount of the reduction of the duty. Now Ministers proposed to reduce the duty to 15 s., 1054
 Sir C. Lemon  said, that he had figures before him to prove, that a duty of 15 s.
 Mr. O'Connell , as the representative of the city of Dublin, felt it to be his duty to offer his thanks to the Government for the very unceremonious manner in which they had treated this matter; and, if it had been possible to adopt a still more unceremonious course, he hoped, that they would have done so; for the bill was an insult, and was intended as an insult, to the people of Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had talked of the concessions which had been made on that side of the House and he had said, that he was the instigator of them; but, in so doing, he had attributed to himself a merit which did not belong to him. He talked of his concession. Why, what concession was it to the people of Ireland? They were asking for their rights, and they demanded them. They treated with ineffable contempt every attempt to deal with them in any way other than that in which England and Scotland had been dealt with; and it was a robbery to keep their rights from them; and it was base in the extreme to adopt any measure which should have that effect. To do so was to deprive them of their rights, and he looked upon the individuals who so acted as the persons who
 1120 1121
 Mr. D'Israeli  was sorry that another bill was to be introduced upon this subject next Session, for he thought that sufficient time had already been expended upon it. The House had now been sitting nine months, and what had they done? The effect of all their labours amounted almost literally to nothing. The necessity for sitting so long was the great attention paid to Irish affairs, and measures in reference to that country were introduced which were not called for by the necessities of the country, but which were brought forward and supported merely for the purpose of keeping a party in power. But what was the result? They were now separating after a Session of nine months' duration, and they left Ireland in a state of smouldering insurection. He felt the difficulty of saying much on this subject; but after the false hopes which had been excited in the country, he would venture to make one observation on the state in which the country would be left. They were about to meet their constituents to give an account of themselves and their conduct; but what could they say when the only result of their nine months' sitting,
 1122
 Sir Hussey Vivian  said, that from observations which had fallen from hon. Members, it would be thought that the people of England did not feel any interest in this measure; but he felt it his duty to say, that at the time of the election, the people appeared to be anxious about nothing so much as that justice should be done to Ireland. He was glad that this bill, which did not secure that justice, and which did not put the people of Ireland on a footing with those of this country, had been rejected.
 Lord J. Russell  moved, that the amendments with the Lords' reasons, should be read; which was done by the clerk at the Table.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that he thought that they could gather from what had been read the general purport of the amendments which had been made by the Lords. It appeared that they had so far agreed to the Commons amendments, as not to in-
 1114 1115
 Mr. Shaw  regretted much to hear the course which the noble Lord had taken, and were it not for the state of the House and the lateness of the Session, he would have opposed the unusual proposal and would have opposed proceeding in this summary way. He was sorry, that the noble Lord had not given time for due consideration, Scarcely had the time for the conference passed, when the noble
 1116 Oh, oh! and Laughter. l. l. l. l. l. bona fide 1117
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the objections of the right hon. Gentleman were objections in form and objections in substance. When the right hon. Gentleman expressed surprise at the course which had been adopted, he would remind him, that the same course had been taken in the year 1836, with the approbation of Members on both sides of the House. In 1836 the Lords' amendments were read as they now had been, and their further consideration was postponed for six months; but when the right hon. Gentleman said, that the adoption of this course was a matter of surprise, he must say, that out of that House there was not
 1118 l. 1119 l.,
 Sir R. H. Inglis  declared, that he also was much surprised at the course pursued by the noble Lord opposite; but, as the bill was to be again brought before the House next Session, he hoped, that the speeches which had now been made upon the subject would be remembered, and that the House would be troubled with less discussion of an irrelevant nature.
 Dr. Lushington  said, it was not his intention to trouble the House at any length on the motion which he now rose to bring forward, and which he regarded as of very considerable importance to a large class of merchants in this country. His object was to obtain, if possible, the aid of the noble Lord, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, in improving the state of the negotiations now going on with the government of France relative to the terms on which our commercial intercourse with the possessions of that power in western Africa was conducted. It would probably be known to some hon. Members that
 1153 1154 bonâ fide 1155
 Dr. Lushington , in reply, said, that he was desirous, that the French government might learn from this public notice of the subject, that where justice ought to be done, the delay of doing that justice amounted, in many cases to a positive injustice. He knew of no pretence upon which the seizures of 1834 could be justified, and he thought the ships and cargoes ought to be delivered up, without delay. With regard to the question of the blockade, he should refrain from expressing his opinion until he saw what was the statement of the French government, the rights they asserted, and the ground on which they sought to rest those rights. At present, however, he should not press his motion, but in the next Session of Parliament, unless the question was satisfactorily settled in the mean time, he should feel it his duty to press more strongly on the House the history of the transactions, and the necessity of affording redress to the parties aggrieved.
 Captain Wood  called the attention of the House to the state of the import duties on foreign grapes cherries, pears, &c., brought for consumption into this country and dwelt upon the injustice which would be done the English market-gardeners and growers of fruit for sale, if the reduction to a five per cent.  ad valorem
 Mr. Wallace  said, that he thought an address ought to be presented to her Majesty, to call the House together in the month of November, to take the subject of the corn-laws into consideration; for he believed, that the corn harvest would be of a nature that would require very considerable attention on the part of the Legislature. And when the subject of corn was taken into consideration, they might perhaps look into the question of apples and pears at the same time. He thought the Government would soon have to consider, rather whether the people were likely to have anything to cover their pies with, than apples to put in them.
 Mr. Villiers  agreed with hon. Members, that the corn-laws had answered the purposes for which they were passed, and he thought that the hon. Member had well chosen the moment to make that observa-
 1159 s. s. 1160
 Captain Wood  briefly replied, and said, that all he required was, to put the market-gardeners on the same footing as the manufacturers, by affording them a protection of 30 per cent. duty on the importation of foreign fruit.
 Mr. P. Thomson  said, that in point of
 1158
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  agreed with the right hon. Gentleman, that the House ought not to entertain this bill; but if it did entertain it, still the hon. Gentleman would not obtain his object, which was to give his constituents a monopoly of the London market, unless he went further and introduced a measure to prevent fruit being brought from distant parts of the country to London by the railways.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  was much disappointed, that the noble Lord had refused to produce the papers moved for. There were individuals whose property had been destroyed to the extent of nearly 100,000 l. 1157
 Mr. M. Philips  thought it would have been just as reasonable to have called for the imposition of a higher duty on foreign corn, as on the articles mentioned in the hon. Gentleman's motion.
 Viscount Palmerston  said, that the subject to which his hon. and learned Friend had drawn the attention of the House was undoubtedly one of considerable importance—in the first place, as affecting the interests of a certain number of individuals who had very severely suffered in consequence of the transactions to which the motion related—and next, as bearing upon some questions of international right materially connected with the commercial interests of this country. At the same time, however, that he admitted, that the subject was one which his hon. and learned Friend was perfectly justified in bringing under the consideration of the House, he hoped, on the other hand, that his hon. Friend would feel it would not be consistent with his duty as a Minister of the Crown to consent to the production of the correspondence he had moved for, consisting of unfinished communications and negotiations between this Government and that of France. If the negotiations had terminated in a manner unsatisfactory to the Government of this country, then undoubtedly his hon. and learned Friend would have a good and sufficient ground for calling on Government to produce the correspondence, with the view of founding on it such a motion as he might think fit to submit to Parliament; but it would be a departure from the general practice, and attended with obvious inconvenience to those interests at stake if the whole proceedings of a negotiation yet pending were to be produced. For the same reason it would not be proper for him to state the precise condition in which that negotiation now stood, nor would he enter into any discussion of the several points adverted to by his hon. and learned Friend. He did not think this would be the proper time for him to state to the House the view Government took of the various questions arising out of the treaties concluded with France respecting the commerce of the African coast, as for instance whether the trade at Portendic ought to be carried on under the provisions of the treaty of 1783, or whether that treaty should be considered as no longer in force, having been terminated by the war of 1793, and
 1156
 Sir E. Wilmot  said, that the bill for the improvement of discipline in prisons having been thrown out in another place, owing, as it seemed, to some misconception respecting separate confinement and solitary confinement, he wished to ask the noble Lord whether they might look for another bill on the subject early next Session?
 Lord Stanley  said, that an amendment affecting one of those clauses had been proposed in the other House, but was withdrawn, lest it might in any degree embarrass the House of Commons.
 Lord Stanley  would not offer any opposition to the course laid down by the noble Lord, but nothing, except the advanced period of the Session, could sanction the Government in requesting, or the House in allowing, a bill of so much consequence and such public importance to be passed so speedily through its stages. It was desirable that the discussion should take place before the largest number of Members then in town, and he would therefore assent to the proposition of the noble Lord. He reserved, however, the expression of any opinion as to the Indemnity Act, as to the illegality that called for that indemnity, as to the ordinance itself, and as to the right of any power in the Canadas to interfere with clauses in-
 1174
 Lord J. Russell  in moving the first reading of the Canada Government Act Declaratory Bill which had been sent down from the House of Lords, said, he did not think it would be desirable or advisable to consider then the merits of the bill, but he would explain to the House the course which he intended to pursue, which, in his opinion, would afford an opportunity of fair discussion and suit the convenience of hon. Members. The bill was founded on an act to make temporary provision for the government of Lower Canada; and for the purpose of indemnifying those who had issued or acted under a certain ordinance made under colour of the said act, with reference to the transportation of certain persons to the Bermudas. His proposition was, that the bill be read a first and second time that evening, ordered to be
 1173
 Lord J. Russell  declined saying anything with respect to the line of conduct he should adopt. The bill had been only just sent down from the Lords, and as there had been no opportunity of reading its details, he could not then say whether he should adopt it, or introduce some amendments. With regard to the despatches from the Governor General of Lower Canada, they had been laid before the House of Lords, and if it were thought desirable, should be laid before that House also.
 Lord J. Russell  said, it certainly was his intention to bring in a bill on the subject next Session, and notwithstanding that the late bill had been lost elsewhere, be should unquestionably persevere in the endeavour to amend the system of prisons in England and Wales.
 Lord J. Russell  observed, that understanding that an impression existed that the Lords had altered the conditions upon which the grant of money had been made by the Commons, he felt it necessary to say, that on a minute examination of the money clauses, he found that such was not the case.
 Mr. Leader  objected to the summary course about to be pursued by the noble Lord, and would take that opportunity of inquiring whether the noble Lord intended to adopt the bill as sent from the other House, or to introduce any amendments into it, and he should also wish to know whether any despatches with reference to the ordinance, had been received at the Colonial Office, from the Governor-general of Lower Canada? The only official announcement connected with the subject that he had seen, appeared in an article published in the  Morning Chronicle
 Lord Stanley  said, that he never addressed himself with more unwillingness to the consideration of any political question in his life than he did to the present question, not only because he felt all the difficulty of contending against that indifference and apathy which, at this period of the Session—exhausted as Members must be with their long-protracted attendance—which necessarily crept upon the House, even amidst discussions the most exciting, and upon principles the most important, but also because he could not feel that, treat this question as they might, deal with it as they pleased, its agitation, its discussion, must almost inevitably lead to consequences prejudicial to the maintenance of authority in Canada. The noble Lord, in the commencement of his speech, gave credit to the House for the forbearance, which throughout the long-protracted Session, they had exercised towards her Majesty's Ministers, and towards the Earl of Durham, upon the subject of Canadian affairs; but, towards the conclusion of the noble Lord's speech, he seemed to intimate that the Earl of Durham had a right to have expected more forbearance than he had met with. [Lord  John Russell: 1230 1231 John Russell: No, no! 1232 1233 a fortiori 1234 1235 ad interim "By these acts, or rather this neglect, the Canadian constitution was practically suspended, although it would only be so in reality by the act which was then proposed; an act which, in fact, was only to supply the wants created by the refusal of the Assembly to pass those legislative measures, which the interest of the province demanded, and to provide for the wants of the colony, during the interval which must elapse before an Assembly could be called together." The Government had placed confidence in the representations which had been made to them, that if the Canadians were intrusted with a control over their expenditure there
 1236 "The Government was bound to provide the means by which a temporary substitution could be made for the discharge of the functions which had been abrogated by the Legislative Assembly, and to provide for the necessities of a colony left without a legislature." 1237 1238 1239 1240 1241
 Colonel Sibthorpe  thought the country was much indebted to the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, for the manly and able show-up which he had given the conduct of the Government, and was fully of opinion, that Parliament ought not to be prorogued till a declaratory bill had been passed. With all respect for the Earl of Durham, he considered, that noble Lord the most unfit person who could have been selected for such a situation as Governor-general of Canada.
 Lord Stanley  supported the clause which he admitted, however, might have been worded in a more satisfactory manner. Without this clause, he contended, that individuals would be rendered subject to a penalty for endeavouring to enforce the law, by appealing against the right of electors, whose votes were invalid, to have their names retained on the registry. The amendment of the Lords went to explain the law.
 Lord J. Russell  rose to give an answer to the suggestion which had been made by the hon. Baronet, the Member for the University of Oxford. It was after mature reflection, that he had come to the decision to pass the bill under consideration as it stood, and without adding any clause of the nature suggested by the hon. Baronet. He had been accused of having said something derogatory to the other House of Parliament, but in the decision he had come to on the point he had been strongly influenced by the opinion which had been expressed by a high authority in the other House, that under all the circumstances, and particularly at so advanced a period of the Session, it would be better not to adopt the course which the hon. Baronet had recommended.
 Lord J. Russell  proposed to agree to all the amendments up to that on the clause relating to the computation of distance. In regard to that amendment he should propose, that the House should disagree, and that so much of the clause as related to distance, and which was not in the original bill, should be omitted altogether.
 Lord J. Russell  moved, that Clause B, introduced into the bill by their Lordships, be expunged.
 Lord John Russell  said, that there were two points alluded to by the noble Lord, on which he felt himself bound to explain what he had stated to the House. The first was in reference to the ordinances of Sir John Colborne as compared with those of Lord Durham. Now, he never made any comparison between them whatever. What he said was, that if there was any decided objection against the ordinances of Lord Durham, on the ground of their illegality, there must also be as decided an objection to the legality of the two ordinances of Sir John Colborne. With regard to the other point on which the noble Lord had just touched, he desired again to state his feelings upon it, because it was most important. No doubt the matter with regard to the Habeas Corpus Act should be cleared up. Such was his opinion and the opinion of every one of those individuals with whom he had the honour to act; but in a conversation which he had had with the noble Viscount at the head of the Administration, in reference to words being prepared to meet the views suggested by the noble Lord opposite, he had understood him to say, that on his attempting to procure their explanation in the sense in which he understood them, and in which Parliament understood them in the House of Lords, he was obliged to withdraw the proposition he had made in obedience to the general wish of the House; and it was thought best, therefore, that the matter should be left in its present state. Having heard from the noble Viscount, therefore, that he was obliged to withdraw the pro-
 1242
 Lord John Russell  said: In moving, Sir, that you do now leave the chair, I find it necessary to address the House, not only with respect to this bill but with respect to certain comments that have been made upon the subject out of which the bill has arisen. I cannot feel any surprise that the hon. Gentleman, the Member for Westminster (Mr. Leader) should have asked me yesterday whether I intended to propose any amendments in the present bill, or whether I meant to ask the House to adopt it without any amendment whatever. At the time, however, that the hon. Gentleman asked me that question I was not aware whether additional words might not have been introduced into the bill subsequently to the time when it was first ordered to be printed by the House of Lords. Having since seen the bill, I can now state to the hon. Gentleman that it is my intention to propose to the House of Commons—a proposal which I shall make very reluctantly—that it should assent to
 1212 1213 1214 1215 1216 1217 1218 1219 "If this be your object, if you only want words to exclude the Governor-general in Council from interfering with such questions as the rights of Roman Catholics, the clergy reserves, the rights of tenure, and other local matters of that kind, I shall not object to them, because I do not conceive it essential to the restoration of subordination and obedience to the laws that the Governor-general should have authority over such matters." 1220 1221 "Because the events which have taken place on the frontier of the United States show the expediency of effecting, at the earliest period, a permanent, and therefore a conciliatory settlement of all questions relating to Lower Canada, and the bill interposes a long interval of despotism before any proposition for such settlement can be entertained." "Because the bill thus postpones the calling of a new Parliament to a period necessarily more unfavourable than the present, and, occupying the interval by a coercive despotism, tends at once to alienate the affections of the people of Lower Canada, to engage the sympathy of the people of the United States in their favour, and to bring upon this country the accumulated evils of civil and of foreign war. 1222 "There might be many measures which it would be necessary to take at once, in order to secure the peace of the province, and which might render it inexpedient to delay the exercise by the Lieutenant-governor of the powers with which he would be invested till the arrival of Lord Durham." "To enable the governor or person administering the government of the province of Lower Canada to extend a conditional pardon, in certain cases, to persons who had been concerned in the late insurrection." "To provide for the more speedy attainder of persons indicted for high treason who had fled from the province, or remained concealed therein to escape from justice," "For preventing mischiefs arising from the printing and publishing newspapers, pamphlets, and papers of a like nature by persons not known, and for other purposes." 1223 "It shall and may be lawful for the Governor or person administering the government of the said province to grant, if it shall seem fit, a pardon to such person who, before arraignment, shall have prayed pardon for his offence, upon such terms and conditions as may appear proper, which pardon shall have the same effect as an attainder of the person therein named for the crime of high treason." "Be it further ordained and enacted, by the authority aforesaid, that in case any person shall be pardoned under this ordinance, upon condition of being transported, or of banishing himself from this province, either for life or for any terms of years, such person, if he shall afterwards voluntarily return to this province, without lawful excuse, contrary to the condition of his pardon, shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall suffer death, as in cases of felony." "That in case any indictment shall be found by a grand jury, at and before any court of competent jurisdiction in the said province, then proclamation shall be made for those persons to surrender," 1224 "They shall stand and be adjudged attainted of the crime expressed and set forth in such indictment, and shall suffer and forfeit as a person attainted of such crime ought to suffer and forfeit by and according to the laws of this province." 1225 1226 1227 1228 1229
 Mr. Hawes  thought that any one anxious to promote peace in Canada would have been desirous to avoid everything that was likely to throw impediments in the way of the Government. He regretted that his hon. Friend who had spoken last should have concluded his speech with a general declaration of disapprobation at the conduct of the Government. He had never been an obsequious supporter of the Government, for whenever he had thought it to be his duty to oppose them, he had never hesitated to do so; but in a question like the present, involving the interest of a large and important mercantile class, and the peace and welfare of a most valuable colony, he should have thought that it would have been considered by all parties as most desirable to abstain from matters calculated to produce excitement. He was of opinion that such a bill of indemnity should not have been allowed to pass the other House; and if any one pressed the House to a division on the subject he would vote against it, as he thought that both the Governor of the colony as well as the Government should be made responsible for their conduct, and be was glad to find that the noble Lord and his colleagues were prepared to answer for the course that they had taken. He could not, however, agree with the hon. Member for Westminster in the view that he had taken of these proceedings, and that the proceedings in Canada should be described in the manner in which they had been. He repeated that if the Governor of Canada had acted irregularly he should be made responsible; but with regard to the Earl of Durham he did not ask for this
 1251 1252 Leader, 1253 Leader: 1254 "Anything by turns, and nothing long."
 Sir E. Sugden  rose with great unwillingness to prolong the discussion on this question; but he should endeavour to do what he had done on all questions relating to Canada—go to its consideration without reference to personal or to party feeling. He would consider only the question as one of law. He owned that he was surprised at the course taken by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), and the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney-General), in this question, in contending that the ordinance of Lord Durham was legal, except that which related to men out of the jurisdiction of the province. All the rest the noble Lord contended was legal, and that her Majesty's Government would act on it as such. How the noble Lord could make that declaration, and, at the same time, give his sanction to the bill then before the House, which declared, that the ordinance could not be justified by law—he quoted the words of the clause—he was at a loss to decide. How the noble Lord, as the representative of the Government in that House, could state, that he would uphold any part of an ordinance which an act of the Legislature would stigmatise as against law, was to him a matter of no little surprise. It was perfectly wild to discuss this question, unless the Govern-
 1280 instanter; 1281 1282 1283
 The Speaker  interrupted the hon. Member, and stated, that he could not be allowed to allude in that manner to the proceedings of the other House.
 Mr. Ellis  said, that the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, towards the conclusion of his able speech, had strongly recommended the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, if the Government thought that either any doubt existed as to the Canada Act itself, or any idea that some measure should be adopted for superseding the ordinary tribunals of justice in that colony, not to lose an hour, much less to entertain the notion of proroguing Parliament until a bill had been introduced and passed upon those subjects. The Secretary of State for the Home Department had observed in reply, that himself and colleagues had given the matter their best attention, and that a noble Friend of his in another place had endeavoured to embody certain words in the present Indemnity Bill with that view, and that his noble Friend had subsequently assured him, that there was no hope of the other House of Parliament agreeing to such a course. On the import of those certain words the hon. and learned Member for Exeter had dwelt with considerable force, and he felt persuaded, that whether in an early or a late period of the Session—in a full or a thin attendance of Members—the noble Lord would never have succeeded in carrying such a clause in that House. But he felt quite certain, that if, after a Cabinet deliberation, the noble Lord had come down to that House without any formal notice, and, without any prefatory remark to make out the necessity of the case, had moved the in-
 1292
 Mr. Leader  would readily bow to the Chair. He would, therefore, assume that in some former period a certain great Minister had called the majority of a great assembly of legislators a low and truculent democracy. What strange language this would be for a noble Viscount to use who came into power by the aid of the people, and who maintained himself in it only by the aid of the people, to complain of those opposed to him imitating the people. He knew not by what acts or means the noble Lord and his colleagues expected to maintain themselves in power. If the head of them denounced a democracy in this way, was it that he wished it to be understood that he relied on court favour? which, indeed, he might have in a high degree, but which support he would find to be weak in comparison with that which he formerly derived from the people. For his own part, he thought that the country had a right to complain of the conduct of the Government in denouncing that on Thursday as being attended with imminent danger to the country, and on Friday being prepared to adopt it when they found the majority of the other House determined to force it on them. On Thursday the noble Viscount at the head of the Government declared that the ordinance was good and legal and proper, and on Friday he came down and admitted that it was illegal and bad, that he was perfectly indifferent to it. Under these circumstances, he thought that Lord Durham had a good ground of complaint against his colleagues in the Government; for they had sacrificed him to the majority against him in the other House. He might say, that although there was an adverse majority in one branch of the Legislature, this was not the case with respect to the House of Commons, and Ministers could with advantage vindicate
 1250
 Mr. Leader  said, the speech of the noble Lord, the Secretary for the Home Department, had been principally directed to the noble Lord opposite; but there were some points to which he felt it necessary that he should refer. As to the present attacks made by the noble Lord on a noble and learned Lord in another place, it was not for him to defend the noble and learned Lord. He was quite able to defend himself, and he had no doubt that he would have no difficulty in doing so; and that his defence would make the noble Lord regret that he ever made any attack upon him. The noble Lord said, that the acts of Sir John Colborne were not questioned. It was only a few weeks ago, that he had put some questions to him relating to those acts, and they were almost all met with indifference; and the noble Lord, when he was spoken to in relation to the subject, said that it was not the intention of the Government to introduce any bill of indemnity as regarded him. The present question before the House was, whether this bill should be allowed to pass; and although he had some objections to it, and was supported in the opinions which he entertained by those of several noble and learned Lords in the other House of Parliament, yet, as this House seemed to be disposed to sanction its passing into a law, he should acquiesce in the course proposed to be adopted, and should not oppose it, much as he thought that it ought to be thrown out, and that in lieu of it a vote of censure should be carried. The House, however, must not think that this was the only act of the Governor of Canada which was illegal, and he would show that it was only one of a series of uncertainties and illegalities perpetrated by him since his appointment. In January last, in  The London and Westminster Review, 1243 1244 The Morning Chronicle, "I enclose you our first great act—about the prisoners. It will appear to you horribly unconstitutional and despotic, but it is really mild. We put no one to death. Our transportation is, you will see, not to be penal, but merely accompanied by measures necessary for security. The rest are merely banished; we confiscate no property. We were obliged to include a great many in our provision, in conformity to a general rule laid down in each case, whom we do not wish and do not intend to treat so hardly. This is rather an advantage, as it will enable us immediately to bring the pardoning power into operation. We would not interfere with the ordinary tribunals or tamper with the juries. The legal guilt of these men was clear. From an ordinary jury, their certain acquittal was equally clear. These ignorant Canadians would have said either that their leaders in the revolt were right all along, or that the Government bed not dared to punish. The British party would have said, that our trial had been a mere mockery of justice, and that we had let their guilty enemies loose on them by a trick." "We have rebelled, my Lord, but do not let this expression frighten you, for it is not against the person of her Majesty, but against a bad colonial administration." "If the arrival of your Lordship had taken place sooner it would have been approved by
 1245 * * —"We are anxious to avoid being brought before the tribunals of the country, as it is impossible for us to find an impartial tribunal, but from such we should have nothing to fear." 1246 Vindicator 1247 alias alias alias The Montreal Herald. The Montreal Herald, 1248 1249
 Sir C. Grey  said, that he did not see the difficulties attaching to this question to which the hon. and learned Gentlemen had alluded. If the ordinance and the proclamation were annulled, the parties
 1284 Leader, 1285 1286 1287 1288 1289
 The Attorney-General  had heard, with the greatest satisfaction, the declaration of the noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, and the declaration of his hon. and learned Friend, the Member for Exeter, that they regretted the agitation of these questions. His firm belief was, that the agitation of these questions was likely to be attended with the most disastrous consequences. It was not to be ascribed to the Government that this subject had been brought before Parliament. Neither was it to be ascribed to the noble Lord opposite, or to his learned Friend. He believed, that they would most religiously have abstained from bringing such a subject forward. The Earl of Durham had most successfully proceeded in pacifying the dissensions in Lower Canada. His measures were received with satisfaction by both parties in that country. In that country there was no complaint of this ordinance in any quarter; and his firm belief was, that if no objection had been made to it on this side of the water, all would have gone on smoothly and harmoniously. The object of the ordinance was clearly to prevent the entrance of the persons accused of taking part in the rebellion into Lower Canada, without the permission of the Governor, until the pacification of the province had taken place. Those individuals would not have thought of entering the province without the permission of the Governor, who might have granted that permission to particular individuals on particular conditions, without any complaint being made by any party; and his belief was, that in a short time the Earl of Durham, who had patriotically undertaken this arduous mission, would have returned to this country covered with complete success. He hoped, that that nobleman would still persevere in the glorious task in which he was engaged; and that he would set at defiance all those
 1266 volenti non fit injuria. 1267 1268 1269 1270 1271 1272 "By any law or ordinance to impose any tax, duty, rate, or impost, save only in so far as any tax, duty, rate, or impost, which at the passing of the act was payable within the said province might be thereby continued." "That it should not be lawful by any such law or ordinance to alter in any respect the law then existing in the said province respecting the existing constitution of the Legislative Assembly, or the right of any person to vote at the election of any member of the Legislative Assembly, or respecting the qualifications of such voters, or respecting the division of the said province into counties, cities, and towns, for the purpose of such elections." 1273 Nor shall it be lawful by any such law or ordinance to repeal, suspend, or alter, any provision of any act of the British Parliament, or of the Imperial Parliament of Great Britain or of any act of the Legislature of Lower Canada as then constituted repealing or altering the same." 1274 William Follett 1275 1276 1277 1278 1279
 The Attorney-General  would rather see the bill again lost than leave in it this clause, which would have the effect of disfranchising thousands of voters whose names had been put upon the register after most solemn decisions.
 Sir R. Inglis  said, that his object in rising was to call the attention of the House to the consequences that would result if the bill were left in its present state. If her Majesty, by an order in Council, were to rescind the ordinance without rescinding the proclamation, it would prevent the criminals from suffering the just punishment for their offences, as no one could doubt (not even the hon. Member for Westminster) that offences of a heinous nature had been committed; and he would, therefore, suggest, but he did not wish to influence the vote of any hon. Member, the expediency of introducing a clause into the bill, providing, That nothing in the ordinance issued in Canada, or in the Order in Council, disallowing that ordinance, shall be construed into a release of any person from the legal punishment attendant on his crimes, but that he should be equally accountable as before the passing of the ordinance. He did not agree with the noble Lord opposite, that the other House would reject such a clause, but he would recommend the noble Lord to remove the responsibility from himself. The noble Lord, the Member for North Lancashire, had urged a measure of this description upon the Government, and he was sure, that the course which he now recommended would be supported by that House and by the country. He had urged this on the Government before, and he again called on the noble Lord not to allow Parliament to be prorogued without some measure of this description being passed; for, without such a measure, he feared, that the security of one of the most valuable possessions of the Crown would be hazarded. He allowed that even the discussion of this subject was not unattended with danger, and that it might prove ruinous, but he could not avoid complaining of hon.
 1290
 The Solicitor-General  fully concurred in the opinion which had been expressed by his hon. and learned friend the Attorney-general, that so much of the ordinance as related to Bermuda was illegal, and that the rest was perfectly legal. He should not, however, discuss that point now, and should only offer some reply to an observation of the hon. and learned Member for Ripon. That hon. Member had said, that by the language of the Act, the Government admitted, that the whole ordinance was illegal. They admitted no such thing, and he believed nothing could be more prejudicial than that it should go forth, that the Government and that Parliament admitted the whole of the ordinance to be illegal. The Act stated nothing of the sort; and he was astonished that the hon. and learned Member for Ripon should have made such a statement. They allowed, that there was something illegal in the ordinance, but it did not follow that the whole of it was illegal. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter had said, that when the Parliament granted certain powers to Lord Durham they had not given him more than the ordinary powers of legislation. He granted that, but those ordinary powers were to be exercised under extraordinary circumstances, and sufficient allowance had not been made for the proceedings of Lord Durham when those circumstances were considered. The hon. and learned Member for Exeter had also said, that there was no precedent for such a penal enactment as had been issued against M. Papineau and others. But did the hon. and learned Member forget the case of the Bonaparte family in France, and that of the family of the Pretender in this country? Was the Act of the 13th and 14th of William 3rd passed after investigation and after mature deliberation? No; that Act passed both Houses in the course of ten days after its introduction,
 1291
 Sir W. Follett  was anxious to offer a few observations to the House, more particularly after the allusion which had been made by the noble Lord opposite, as to the share which he took in the discussions on the Canada Government Bill. In making, these observations, he should endeavour to avoid the example of the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, and should, as far as possible, abstain from adverting to the wisdom or policy which had dictated the ordinances in question. He quite agreed in what had fallen from the noble Lord opposite, that the Governor-general was placed in a situation of great delicacy and
 1255 1256 1257 "We are obliged to suspend the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada; we cannot call them together; and in the absence of a Legislature there, it will be necessary to send out a Governor, for the purpose of collecting the opinions and sentiments of the inhabitants of both provinces, for the purpose of seeing whether we cannot introduce a new constitution, and a new form of Government there, which may remedy the evils and difficulties which now exist." 1258 1259 1260 1261 1262 1263 1264 1265
 Dr. Lushington  was anxious, before the bill passed into a law, to express in a few words the opinions which he entertained with respect to it. If it depended upon his sole vote it never should pass into a law at all, and his reason would shortly be, that he was not in the least degree satisfied, after all the discussiont hat had taken place on both sides of the House, that there had been any violation of the
 1300 1301 1302 1303
 Sir Edward Codrinyton  was so strongly opposed to the bill, that notwithstanding the reasons that had been urged against coming to a division upon it, if any hon. Member would move its rejection he would give him his support.
 Mr. Aglionby , and those of his Friends who generally gave their support to the
 1305
 Mr. Aglionby  suggested, that it was highly impolitic to proceed so rapidly through the stages of such a bill as the present, when the benches of the House were so thinly occupied. The effect of the proposed law would be to impose a hardship upon debtors, because it might happen that they were unable to procure sufficient funds to pay for the insertion of the advertisement. He should suggest, therefore, that the present bill should be withdrawn, as little harm could be done during the recess to the newspapers, and that in the next Session a new measure should be introduced, providing for the adoption of such a price for the advertisements as would fully repay the newspaper proprietors, and would not seriously affect the position of the debtor.
 Lord John Russell  must request his hon. and gallant Friend not to give his vote against this bill. His own opinion certainly was, that it would have been far better to have reserved the whole subject until they knew the circumstances under which the Earl of Durham had acted. He thought it was hardly fair or just towards the Earl of Durham to bring in this bill at the time it was introduced. But after the bill had been read a second time in the House of Lords—to which this subject more properly belonged than to the House of Commons, the Lords being peculiarly concerned with questions of a judicial nature; and after the opinion expressed by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-general, that there was a part of the ordinance which could not be justified by law; after this he thought it would be very much worse for Lord Durham and those acting under his ordinance if this bill were now rejected than if it were passed into a law. Such being the case, much as he lamented the agitation of this question, and that this bill should ever have been framed, yet the bill having come down to the House, he thought the best course that could be adopted for all parties concerned was to pass the bill, although he, at the same time, retained the opinion expressed by others, that it was certainly a premature expression of opinion on the part of Parliament.
 Lord J. Russell , as to the question with which the hon. Member for Westminster concluded, about the twenty-three persons affected by the ordinance, begged to decline giving any answer.
 Lord John Russell  moved the Order of the Day for the third reading of the Canada Government Declaratory and Indemnity Bill.
 Mr. Hawes  did not impute to the hon. Member any breach of confidence, but he had alluded to what he considered the bad taste of using quotations of letters, without being signed or in any other way authenticated in that House, and he retained the same opinion still. He had had an opportunity of seeing some of the first firms in the city of London that day, and he was happy to say, every word of what had fallen from him as to the state of Lower Canada was fully borne out. There was but one opinion amongst the whole of the merchants engaged in that trade as to the policy of Lord Durham—they thought it was the wisest that could have been pursued. Widely different was their opinion with respect to the recent discussions upon the subject—they thought that the annulling of these ordinances and the interference with the authority of Lord Durham, was almost calculated to risk a second rebellion. They regretted also, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not shown upon this subject the same spirit as the noble Lord the leader of the Government in this House.
 Mr. Hawes : Although he had last night said that if a motion were made he would divide against it, yet, looking at the state of the House, and seeing how many of their friends were absent, a division might embarrass the Government; and as he thought that his hon. Friend's object had been attained by showing his great dislike to the measure he might withdraw his motion.
 Colonel Sibthorp  regretted, that they had placed the Earl of Durham in a difficult situation by the contrary opinions which had been given; for the noble Lord, between two seats, would catch a fall. He thought, that the Government had done that which reflected little credit on them selves and was unworthy of the character of the noble Earl.
 Mr. A. Sanford  was opposed to the bill, and said that instead of giving it his assent, he should give it his strongest and most public reprobation. He conceived it to be impolitic, unjust, and unnecessary, and that it was fraught with the most mischievous consequences; for if this bill should pass it would be impossible to oppose a similar measure on any future occasion, however tyrannically those might have acted to whom great powers had been given.
 Mr. Finch  said, that the hon. Members who had preceded him, and who objected to this bill, seemed inclined to content themselves with merely entering their protest against it, but this course was not one which met entirely with his sanction. He was strongly opposed on principle to all acts of indemnity, and he was clearly of opinion, that they ought not to be hastily necessity. In the present case the conflicting opinions which had been delivered by eminent lawyers showed, that there was much doubt, and he should therefore certainly move that the third reading of this bill should be postponed to that day week. They were also at present in a state of uncertainty as to the circum stances which led Lord Durham to adopt the ordinance, and they ought not, without full knowledge, to be called upon to sanction so delicate a mea-
 1309
 Mr. Finch  in accordance with the opinion of his Friends would yield to their wishes, and would not divide the House.
 Mr. Grote  said, that in moving for the returns of which he had given notice he would not enter into the general factory question, but he would only call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department to some few points. The Factory Act had now been passed for five years, and there had, therefore, been full time for the provisions of that act to have been brought into operation. He believed that much good had been already done, although there were many places in which the children even now received no education at all; and when they read the reports of the commissioners it was impossible to fail coming to the conclusion that the intentions of the Legislature as to the education of the children had been but very imperfectly carried out. The report of the commissioners, especially of Mr. Horner, who had paid most attention to the subject, clearly established the fact, that of the very imperfect and unequal education of the factory children in various
 1311
 Mr. Grote  wished to say a few words before the bill passed, principally because he was one of the inconsiderable minority on the passing of the Act for providing a temporary government for Lower Canada, and from which bill he conceived the whole of the recent proceedings to have arisen. By that Act, the Imperial Parliament vested in the Governor and Special Council, powers that were unknown to the constitution; and the consequence had been—and not unnaturally so—that the extent of passed whilst any doubt existed of their those powers had been misconstrued by the individuals upon whom they were conferred. He could not help feeling satisfaction that he had not been seduced by personal respect to the Earl of Durham into a concurrence in a measure which, he must say, deserved the strongest epithets which had been applied to it, when it was under discussion in that House. He still much feared, that it would be found, that the House had gone the wrong way to work to obtain a settlement of the discontent-
 1308
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that the objection pointed out by the learned Attorney-General was a very valid one, and one which would be generally admitted. When the bill was before in this House, it was agreed as a principle that it should provide only for the matter of registration, and yet the House of Lords had introduced this clause, having reference to an entirely different matter.
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that it was creditable to newspaper proprietors, that they should have so long permitted the grievance of which they complained to exist, without attempting to remedy it; but at the same time, he was of opinion, that it was not wise to press too severely upon debtors, or to leave them entirely at the mercy of those who could control the prices to be demanded for the advertisements required by law.
 Mr. Leader  hoped before the bill was read a third time, that the House would
 1297 The Morning Chronicle, The Morning Chronicle, The Montreal Herald, 1298 The Montreal Herald, 1299
 Mr. Hutton  said, that the bill was not asked for by Lord Durham: and his strong feeling was, that it ought not to be passed, although, after the way in which the question had been put by Ministers, he could not see well how the House could absolutely refuse it. He trusted, therefore, that his hon. Friend with whom he usually acted would comply with the strong wishes of the Government, and not divide the House, although if he did press his amendment his own conviction was, that the bill was not proper.
 Sir George Grey  said, that in reference to one of the observations which had just fallen from his hon. Friend, he wished to state, that while he deeply regretted that this bill should have been introduced into Parliament, and while he most reluctantly, under the circumstances, gave to it his assent, yet he would not even now give it his support if he could conceive, with his hon. Friend, that it would imply the slightest charge against Lord Durham. Lord Durham had been wholly absolved—at least by the House of Commons, as was clear from the debate of this night—from anything approaching to criminality. The utmost extent to which he was charged with having acted illegally was, that in exercising having powers he had overlooked the territorial limits of Lower Canada. It was on that narrow ground only that it was alleged there had been an excess of authority exercised by him. While speaking of the conduct of Lord Durham, there was one point which appeared to have been lost sight of; at all events it had not been sufficiently dwelt upon; namely that there were three classes of persons dealt with by this ordinance. The cases of two of those classes had been repeatedly brought under discussion; but the case of the third class—namely those to whom complete amnesty had been granted by Lord Durham—had been over-
 1306
 The Attorney-General  most exceedingly regretted that the hon. Gentleman should persist in a motion for dividing the House, and he thought that the hon. Gentleman would have done better to have followed the course adopted by other Members of great experience in that House, and of high station in the country, who, though objecting to the bill, had thought it more expedient not to press a division. To the hon. Member who had seconded the motion, of whom he entertained the highest opinion, and whom he had known for years, he would also appeal, and ask him whether, under the circumstances of the case, it was expedient to take the step? Hon. Members might or might not be satisfied of the legality of the ordinance, still, after the opinions which had been expressed by himself and his learned. Friend the Solicitor-general, that part of the ordinance was illegal, although this might be wrong, it would be better to pass the bill. No opinion to the contrary had been given, and he believed that the hon. Member for Tynemouth merely contended that it was only a small departure from the letter of the law, like the lady who, being accused of having had an illegitimate child, said, by way of excuse, "It was true I have had a child, but then it was only a little one." Why, these opinions would encourage the bringing of actions, and the very bringing of actions would expose the parties who had acted under the ordinance to expense and vexation and mortification. He agreed that if this bill could have been avoided it would have been infinitely better, and if no motion had been made no action would have been thought of; but now, if they did not pass this bill the parties would be liable to
 1310
 The Attorney-General  said, that he was exceedingly sorry that it became
 1312
 The Attorney-General  begged to draw the attention of the House to a bill which had come down from the House of Lords touching the insertion of debtors schedules in newspapers. The bill was read a first time last night, and he proposed to take it through its remaining stages this evening. He was anxious that he should be permitted to do so, because he must say, that its object was to remedy a grievance of a very serious nature although he must observe, that a similar grievance had been allowed to exist for the last twelve years, and, so far as he could learn, without any complaint. He alluded to the provision which had been in existence under the Insolvent Debtors Act. The Imprisonment for Debt Bill required the schedules of debtors to be inserted in the newspapers, and restricted the amount to be demanded by the proprietors of newspapers to 3 s. 1313
 The Attorney-General  thought, that, under the circumstances, it would be better to withdraw this bill, and he was the less scrupulous in doing so, because he thought, that the bill bore evident marks of its having been prepared with little care, and because he thought it would not be found to operate as beneficially as it was thought it would.
 Mr. Easthope  had heard with profound grief that they were to be entangled in the meshes of this paltry legislation—pitiful in its intention and in its origin, God send it might not prove most mischievous in its results. He most firmly believed, that there prevailed throughout the country one feeling of reprobation in respect of this miserable effort to do mischief. However calamitous the results might be, there would exist in the minds of the people no difficulty in tracing them to their source. He was sorry that there should be any impediment or obstruction in the way of their expressing their scorn for this despicable measure; but he felt bound to defer to the opinion which had been so generally expressed by the House as to the mode of dealing with the bill, for sorry should he be to add to the embarrassment which already existed with regard to this question; and as it was considered that it might increase that embarrassment if the House were on this occasion to be driven to a division, he should most reluctantly waive the opposition which he had fully intended to make to its further progress. It would be presumptuous on his part if were to attempt to go into the legal questions that had already occupied so much of the time of the House, and it was unnecessary for him to do so, but he should have been negligent of his public duty if he had not entered his protest against the measure, and had not expressed his concurrence in that general condemnation which he firmly believed was felt towards it by a vast majority
 1307
 Sir R. H. Inglis  wished to ask the noble Lord, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, what steps Government had taken in consequence of the unanimous address of the House of Commons in May last upon the subject of the Slave-trade? That address touched upon three points, and prayed her Ma-
 1314
 Sir R. H. Inglis  had heard with great pleasure what had fallen from the noble Viscount, and he begged on the part of the House to confirm the assertion which had been made, that Parliament and the country would not permit the continuance of the slave-trade under the Portuguese flag, and, he was sure, that the Government would be fully supported by Parliament in any measure which they might be driven to resort to for its suppression, if Portugal should finally refuse to accede to the treaty which had been proposed to it.
 Lord Ebrington  agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets in all that he had said upon this occasion, and particularly with respect to the conduct of Lord Durham, with whom he had enjoyed a long acquaintance, and who was as incapable as any man in that House, of deviating from that course which his attachment to the principles of liberty would always point out to him. He never had occasion to give a vote with such pain as he should give his vote on the present occasion. But, after all he had heard on the subject, and particularly after the speech of his noble Friend (Lord John Russell), and the admissions made in the course of that speech, he could not feel justified on the whole, in refusing his assent to the bill, although he deeply and fervently deplored, that the question had ever been brought forward. Those who had brought it forward had, in his opinion, incurred a deep and heavy responsibility for the mischief which its discussion must, in his view of the subject, bring upon the colony itself, and also with respect to its connection with this country. His noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had shown no disposition to shrink from his duty in supporting Lord Durham, and in sharing with him whatever responsibility might belong
 1304
 Viscount Palmerston  assured the right hon. Baronet, that the attention of Government had been earnestly and anxiously given to the important subject to which he had adverted. Respecting the first question, he begged to inform the right hon. Gentleman, that Government hoped to obtain the consent of all the great powers of Europe to a general treaty for the suppression of the slave-trade, and in that treaty they would endeavour to obtain the insertion of a declaration, that the slave-trade should be treated as piracy A negotiation to this effect had only been delayed from a wish, in the first instance, to come to an understanding with France as to the extension of the geographical limits for the right of search contained in the conventions between France and England. Those limits did not include the eastern coast of Africa, from which an extensive slave-trade was carried on; and when they were making a general European treaty, it was clearly desirable, that it should contain the most complete stipulations respecting the extent of the limits. It was unnecessary to say, that the foundation of all treaties upon the slave-trade must be a mutual right of search; and he had no reason to expect any difficulty on that point, except on the part of the United States of America. In that country, unfortunately, that maritime jealousy which this country had overcome in respect to France, still existed; and he had no hope, at present, of obtaining the consent of the United States to a treaty for the mutual right of search. At the same time, it was but justice to say, that no effort had been omitted on their part to carry into execution their own laws for the suppression and prevention of the slave-trade. Respecting the third question, he was sorry to say, that he could not yet announce, that Portugal had agreed to an adequate treaty for the fulfilment of her engagements with this country. The Government, as was well known, had sent out some time ago, the draft of a treaty for
 1315 ultimatum, 1316
 Mr. Freshfield  said, that the Poor-law committee, great as had been their labours felt no regret in reference to those labours. They complained of nothing. Four days in every week, and five or six hours each day, they had devoted to their duties; but the time they had given to the inquiry, extended as it was, was no more than necessary in order to render the proceedings satisfactory to the public generally, as well as to those who had evidence to produce on the subject, both on the one side and on the other. And he must add, that whatever desire hon. Members might generally feel to show humanity and benevolence towards the poor in their ad-
 1325
 Mr. Briscoe  moved as an Amendment for a return of the number of married couples confined in workhouses in England and Wales, stating the number in each workhouse and the age and state of health of the parties. A great deal of misconception had got abroad as to the number of married persons in the workhouses, and it was not generally known that the boards of guardians had very extensive powers of giving out-door relief to married couples above the age of 60. With a view of ascertaining something of what was the state of the case in Surrey, he had
 1326
 Sir C. Douglas , in rising to move, pursuant to notice, "that each assistant Poor-law Commissioner do forthwith prepare a report to the board at Somerset-house, as to how far he may be of opinion, that the regulations now in force for refusing out of door relief in money to the able-bodied, and for the separation of man and wife in the workhouses after sixty years of age each, should or should not be modified, stating the reasons for whichever view he may take," said, that in the course which he had pursued on the subject of the Poor-law he was anxious, it should not be thought, he had intended in any way to mislead the public, and he must say, he deeply regretted, that nothing had been done on the subject. It was one on which he was quite convinced political heats and party feelings ought to have no place, and he had refused to accede to the motion brought forward by the hon. Member for Oldham in the early part of the Session, and thereby shown, that he acquiesced generally in the principles of the Poor-law Amendment Act. But, he must add, that he did think Government might have been able, had they taken up the subject early in the Session, when there was a full attendance of Members, to have passed such a measure, for the modification of the powers of the commissioners in those particulars to which his motion referred—viz., out-door relief to the able-bodied, and the separation of the sexes, as would have given general satisfaction throughout the country. At present, however, he had risen to call attention to the subject, chiefly for the purpose of showing, that
 1324
 Sir R. Inglis , after having presented some petitions, said, he hoped he might be allowed to take that opportunity of congratulating the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, and the House generally, on the termination of a Session of almost unexampled duration, toil, and fatigue. He found that the House had now sat 173 days, during which no less than 1,134 hours had been occupied with public business, a number which was unexampled in the annals of Parliament, with the exception of a single year, in which the amount had been exceeded, partly on account of the morning sittings which were then on trial, and partly owing to the lengthened discussions on the Reform Bill, which was pending that Session. But if they compared the labours of the last Session with those which their predecessors had to undergo, indeed, if they went back only so far as the reign of George 4th, or the beginning of William 4th, the contrast would appear most striking. In the first Session after the accession of the former monarch, the House of Commons had sat only 111 days. In the first Session of William 4th they sat only 84 days, and rolling this as it was rolled into the last Session of George 4th, still the united number of days only reached 107. The first Session of the present century was the longest previous to the Session just past, the number of days occupied by sittings being 132. He thought the country must see with satisfaction the testimony of attention to the duties of legislation exhibited in the numbers he had mentioned, but while he thought this, he could not bet feel also, that there was no
 1323
